ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the 2017 Bill to Regulate the Budget and Approve the Accounts (No. 980, 1055).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u2	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u3	Mr President, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in ten years, France's public deficit, all public administrations combined, is below the 3% mark of gross domestic product – GDP. This is the most notable fact of fiscal year 2017 that is the subject of this bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts. This objective had been set out by the Prime Minister; He was held. France will therefore exit the excessive deficit procedure that it has been undergoing since 2009. Better, the decline in the government deficit is accelerating. During the previous legislature, between 2013 and 2016, the government deficit had been reduced from 4% to 3.4% of GDP, representing a total decrease of 0.6 percentage points of GDP, or on average less than 0.15 percentage points of GDP per year. In 2017, the government deficit increased from 3.4 per cent to 2.6 per cent of GDP, a decline of 0.8 per cent in GDP: in just one year, we did better than in the previous four years. The merit of this good result is shared between the old and the new government, but the acceleration of the deficit decline is due only to the decisions taken by the majority, in terms of expenditure and revenue. On the expenditure side, the Government has taken exceptional measures of more than €5 billion to deal with the significant sub-budgeting noted by the Court of Auditors in its June 2017 audit on the state of public finances. On the revenue side, the first amending finance law for 2017 created two exceptional contributions to corporate tax for about 5 billion euros, in order to draw the consequences of the annulment by the Constitutional Council on 6 October 2017 of the 3% tax on the amounts distributed. Without these decisions by our majority, the deficit would have continued to decline, but at a rate comparable to that of previous years, i.e. a very low rate of 0.1 to 0.2 percentage points of GDP. These first results were recently welcomed by the International Monetary Fund, whose representatives I met twice in May – once in Washington, with the Chairman of the Finance Committee, and once in Paris. This institution welcomed the "impressive progress" of France, which, according to it, has become "a leader in the reform process in Europe". However, our deficit remains largely – up to 85% – structural, with a structural share of 2.2 points of GDP out of 2.6. This structural deficit fell by 0.3 percentage points in 2017. The efforts to return to the structural balance of accounts – another of our European commitments – are therefore still important. The structural deficit is calculated on the basis of assumptions of production gap and potential growth that we discussed at length during the adoption of the law on public finance programming. You will therefore understand that I give an unfavourable opinion to all the amendments aimed at changing the method of calculating the structural deficit. I am referring more specifically to the finances of the State, whose accounts are the main object of the settlement law. Of course, the Court of Auditors has estimated that the government's budget deficit, down by EUR 1.4 billion, does not fall significantly in 2017. But this had been anticipated in the original finance law: the deficit is even lower than expected by 1.6 billion euros. I would add that the government's deficit has been reduced by 20 billion euros since 2012, when it takes over the entire responsibility and solidarity pact adopted during the previous parliamentary term. The State thus offsets more than €12 billion in social security exemptions in 2017. It also covers the cost of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – the CICE – which reaches EUR 15 billion, up EUR 2.2 billion in 2017. Despite this, the government deficit is decreasing, demonstrating the importance of management efforts. Government revenues, on the other hand, are growing strongly, driven by the recovery of economic growth. Tax revenues from the general budget increased by EUR 11.5 billion, mainly thanks to VAT – value added tax – to EUR 8 billion, while no measures were taken to increase this tax. This is a good illustration of the fact that the dynamism of revenues is the result of improved economic conditions. Unsolicited changes in income and corporate taxes have also been significant, although they have been offset by several measures to reduce taxes. The return on corporate tax has been increasing for the first time since 2013: it is 30.8 billion euros in 2017, excluding exceptional contributions, instead of 30 billion euros in 2016, even as the CICE continues its upswing. Income tax returns increased by EUR 1.2 billion, while a decrease of EUR 1 billion was adopted in the original finance law in favour of low- and medium-income households. The spontaneous increase in revenues would have been even greater if the delay in accounting for donation and inheritance fees had been taken into account. In this regard, Minister, I would like to suggest that you include the overall return on donation and inheritance fees in the general budget revenue summary table set out in the explanatory memorandum for the various finance bills. Their efficiency, which is 12.8 billion euros, now exceeds that of the domestic consumption tax on energy products, the TCIPE, allocated to the general budget. It would therefore be logical for these rights to be included in this table in the same way as the ICTPE. Tax expenditure continues to grow, reaching EUR 93 billion in 2017. They will probably exceed EUR 100 billion next year. I share the willingness of many of our colleagues to better assess each of these tax expenditures in order to reduce their costs. I invite the various special rapporteurs to focus their attention on those included in their sectors. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the increase in the cost of tax expenditure in absolute terms is largely the mechanical result of economic recovery and growth – I think, of course, of course, of the CICE or the tax credit for the employment of employees at home, whose costs are, by construction, indexed to the wage bill. The same applies to the assessment of the cost of reduced VAT rates: if we have a lot of growth over the next few years, these tax expenditures will increase mechanically. I believe that the right monitoring indicator is the one that we adopted under the Public Finance Programming Act by setting a tax expenditure ceiling as a percentage of revenue. According to this indicator, tax expenditures accounted for 24% of revenues in 2017, a steady level compared to 2016. The 2017 fiscal year was also marked by an increase in spending and an unprecedented level of flow of appropriations under management. Net expenditure in the general budget was EUR 382.8 billion, of which EUR 322.6 billion was for the general budget, plus revenue levies for the European Union of EUR 16.4 billion and local and regional authorities of EUR 43.8 billion. Departmental spending increased by €9.1 billion between 2016 and 2017, an increase of 4%. The restructuring of the nuclear industry and the recapitalisations of EDF and Areva cost more than €8 billion in total: they were partly financed through equity divestitures in Engie, Renault and Peugeot. Apart from the recapitalisation of Areva, net expenditure in the general budget rose by 2.7 billion euros in 2017 compared to the original finance law. The increase in expenditure was partly offset by a significant decrease in the revenue levy in favour of the European Union, but this decrease is provisional, and this revenue levy is expected to increase from EUR 4 to 5 billion in the coming years. In addition, the Government has carried out significant movements of appropriations under management in order to contain the evolution of public expenditure, through the precautionary reserve, decrees in advance and cancellation, as well as two amending financial laws. In total, the savings achieved during the second half of the year make it possible to almost comply with the expenditure rules applicable to the State. For example, on the scope in value, the expenditure is over 400 million euros, while on the scope in volume, the execution 2017 stands at 390.9 billion euros, in line with the forecast of the original finance law. The government's debt continued to grow: it stood at 1686 billion euros at the end of 2017. Beyond the increase in the stock of debt that we need to monitor, the 2017 fiscal year marks a break in the trend with an increase in the debt burden. It had declined steadily since 2012, due to the historically low interest rates and the inflation rate. It is progressing again as a result of the normalization of the economic environment, which results in a rise in inflation and a gradual rise in interest rates. It will therefore be necessary to work towards the de-indebtedness of the State during this legislature, in order to contain the debt burden. We complete the Spring Assessment, just a few hours from the official beginning of the summer. Next month, we will discuss the broad guidelines for public finances and, after the summer, the marathon of the autumn budget will come. We can thus, after examining the past today, look to the future, according to the principle of "virtuous linkage" desired by the promoters of the LOLF – organic law on finance laws. I would like to thank the members of the Government who were present at this new spring budget meeting. I would like to pay tribute to the work and investment of the special rapporteurs, draftsmen and Members of Parliament who have participated actively in the public policy evaluation committees: they have made it a success. We all share the goal of shorter sitting time in the fall. But, in my view, this objective can only be achieved if there is sufficient time between the adoption of the Finance Bill in the Council of Ministers and its consideration in Parliament. This time is really needed to review the articles and, above all, to evaluate them. We will therefore have to strike a balance with the Government in the context of the constitutional bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to pass this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u4	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u5	Minister, just a year ago, when you looked at the draft regulations for 2016, you said to the Members of the Finance Committee: "I see that it is easier to make expenditures than savings, and that it is easier to talk about savings than to make them. » 2017 budget implementation has made you right! The time has come to take stock of the first year of the new quinquennium, in the light of the strong and enlightening opinions given by the Court of Auditors and the High Council for Public Finance. The first year of a quinquennium is still difficult to assess, as two balance sheets intertwine. In 2017, we had the last six months of François Hollande's presidency, marked by serious budgetary insinuities,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u6	Very serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u7	...remained and repeatedly criticized, and denounced both by the Court of Auditors and by yourself, Mr Minister, the other six months being those of Emmanuel Macron's presidency, marked by the increase in public spending and the absence of structural efforts. In June 2017, the Court asked the new executive to quickly straighten the bar, as we were heading straight into the wall. The disaster did not finally take place, thanks to a one-off and brutal effort on expenditure, which did not leave indifferent because of the decrease in aided contracts and cuts in housing and defence credits – to mention the most controversial credit cuts. Beyond these measures, it is mainly thanks to an exceptionally favourable economic situation that we ended 2017 with public accounts in better condition than in 2016, especially in terms of deficit. France was late in the global growth cycle, but in 2017 it began to benefit fully. The revenues of all the public administrations then exploded. This represents a gain of EUR 48 billion, mainly due to the economic situation, as the rapporteur-general points out in his report. We welcome France's exit from the excessive deficit procedure, but as confirmed by the High Council for Public Finance, the reduction in the government deficit, which fell below the 3% of GDP threshold, was achieved without discretionary budgetary effort in 2017: this improvement in the government deficit is therefore based exclusively on its cyclical component. There are indicators that are not misleading: the structural effort was even slightly negative last year. In other words, if we live up to our European commitments, it is because of the particularly high level of elasticity of compulsory levies, not because of an effort on expenditure. It was not the Government's action that contributed to the reduction of the deficit, it was French households and businesses that participated directly and powerfully in that effort. If our public deficit fell below 3% of GDP in 2017, then there's nothing to be clear about – you don't do it, and I congratulate you. Usually, when you compare yourself, you reassure yourself; Now, when you compare yourself, you can't rest assured! The public deficit in the euro area is 0.9% of GDP in 2017 compared to 2.6% for France. Other countries in the euro area are far less indebted than we are and have much less degraded fiscal balances. Of course, they do not necessarily have the same fiscal and economic history as ours, but it is sometimes also because they have long been engaged in structural reform policies, i.e. real reforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u8	You're already alive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u9	On the side of the government deficit, the reduction effort has been minimal. This quasi-stagnation is due to the fact that the significant increase in spending was offset by an even greater increase in government revenues: in 2017, these increased by EUR 14.4 billion compared to 2016 execution. The products of all major taxes have increased, as the rapporteur-general has indicated, in particular VAT with EUR 3.2 billion more than expected. However, it is well known that income is very sensitive to the economic situation in both directions and that expenditure is very rigid downwards, particularly in principle staff expenditure. Today, the government deficit, which peaks at €67.7 billion in 2017, accounts for more than 20% of net expenditure in the general budget. This indicator should be used more and more to show how much we collectively have a considerable effort to make to reduce spending. On the state debt side, the news is not good. It continues to grow, reaching 1686 billion euros at the end of 2017, or 65.5 billion more in 2017,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u10	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u11	... year yet without crisis and with growth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u12	What would that be?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u13	This trend places France once again in a losing logic, in fact the red lantern of the major euro area countries. With the benefits of growth, the budget deficit could have been reduced massively if the expenditure effort had been real! The Government is currently enjoying a very exceptional economic situation: the revenue levy for the European Union has never been so low since 2005, as has interest rates, leading to a continuing decline in the debt burden; As a result of growth, order books are filled, and the business climate is good with the return of business confidence. But as our public accounts improve, slightly and for short-term reasons, let us not look at them. You know, like me, Minister, that our country remains in a situation of great fragility in a context marked by the observed slowdown in growth, which I hope will be only cyclical; the high level of the euro; the increase in the price of oil; the increase in borrowing interest rates, following recent ECB announcements and the sharp rise in interest rates in the United States ; the climate of quasi-war trade which is worsening and which is weakening the world; the political frailties that cross Europe – I am obviously thinking of the Italian and even German uncertainties. These are not hypothetical risks: this is reality. President Macron is getting into trouble; The time for growth-funded promises is now behind us. To clean up our public accounts, we must use an essential lever, that of controlling expenditure. Of course, more than ever in times of growth, the structural reduction in spending is the absolute justice of the peace. However, the Government has not been able to curb the considerable increase in public expenditure in 2017, and in particular that of the State. Thus, in the field of ministries, the increase in expenditure has been unsurpassed since 2007: more than 10.6 billion euros! While this increase is partly due to measures taken by your predecessors – you mentioned, as well as the rapporteur-general, the protocol "Professional paths, careers and remuneration" and the upgrading of the index point in the public service – which have obviously weighed heavily in the balance, it is nevertheless essential to make public expenditure more efficient. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] There are not a thousand ways to achieve this; There are two of them, and they account for 73% of public expenditure. The first, let's not be afraid of words, is to reduce social spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u14	We were waiting for him! Poor bastards!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u15	With more than 700 billion euros, all public social protection benefits account for more than one third of France's GDP and half of public expenditure. There was a cacophony, in Bercy, between you and your colleague, and the President of the Republic did not bring any more clarity since, in the morning, in Paris, he said that social spending had to be reduced and, on the same day, in Montpellier, he announced a flourishing of new social spending – the rest was zero for glasses, a better remuneration for social workers. How will this be funded? Mystery!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u16	We'll never know!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u17	Social spending must be made more efficient. France will always be France, it will always be solidarity and it is important, but this solidarity must of course enable the poorest to avoid the often harmful effects of the economic situation. And to protect them, we need a clean up of our public finances. Reducing social spending means deeply reforming the social model. The second way to make public spending more efficient is to reduce the public wage bill. It accounts for 23% of public spending today. However, in 2017 – or 2018, it seems – you didn't do much on this important subject. This debate also highlights very significant, worrying differences between the appropriations voted and those actually consumed. Management practices are certainly questionable and the Court of Auditors has denounced them. You're not the first government to do this, but you might be the first to end it. I note that you outlined it through a review of the sub-budgetings. Saving is obviously not under-budgeting, and reality always catches up with fiction. Similarly, better spending is not extracting expenditures from the budget and believing that they have been eliminated because they have been transformed into tax expenditures or a plethora of funds or off-shore operators from a budgetary point of view. In 2017, we also talked about 2018, and the Government, announcing certain measures for this year, caused complications for the future. You have committed a double mistake, a little like tennis: first, the removal of the housing tax, a real challenge to the tax autonomy of the communities and a source of great uncertainty for our tax system; Secondly, the CSG's increase of EUR 22.5 billion, barely offset by EUR 16 billion in reductions in contributions. Both of these measures have been voted on while they have no positive impact on competitiveness and dangerously reduce your room for manoeuvre. Without improving competitiveness, there is no increase in purchasing power. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I conclude by saying that the great urgency is to make our spending efficient. An attempt has been made to address this issue through this new fiscal framework, the Spring Evaluation, which changes the way in which the proposed Regulations are dealt with. I think that's a good thing. We are setting a first milestone. There will be others that will make us, too, progress. In any case, the 2017 meeting was missed, and I am sorry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u18	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u19	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, my few colleagues present – which is the whole success of this Spring's evaluation – through this motion to reject the 2017 draft budget settlement bill in advance, I wish to take stock of a year's budgetary and fiscal action taken by this government, certainly from a budget for which it is not responsible, but to which I nevertheless observe that the President of the Republic had contributed somewhat given its importance in the government of that time. The corrections that were made in July 2017 are, in fact, totally yours, Minister. I will also discuss the consequences of the 2018 Finance Act. On the project itself, the Court of Auditors' analysis shows the extent of the gap between the budget implemented in 2017 and what was foreseen in the original finance law. I know you don't like the expression, minister, but I don't see any other one for the real "bots" that some missions have undergone in their execution, without knowing what criteria have been used to justify them. For example, the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", which I am responsible for following up as Special Rapporteur, has been cancelled by EUR 434 million in payment appropriations, excluding Title 2, i.e. 4.57 % of the appropriations approved under the original finance law. Regardless of the reasons that led you to these cuts; They are, in any case, surprising when we are told, quite rightly, that the earth is burning more and more, and that this cause should not bear any budgetary constraints. But this mission was not the only one affected by the budgetary implementation in 2017. The planks also focused on the "Security" mission – minus 4.7% –, the "Official Development Assistance" mission – minus 4.5% – and the "Justice" mission too – at a rate of less 4.1%, your July cuts reduced its budget by 238 million euros. And when one sees the state of justice in France, particularly in the Seine-Saint-Denis department, which has been highlighted recently in a report, one can only be surprised. In addition, the Court notes that the State's investment expenditure is down 7.1 per cent from the forecast in the original Finance Act as a result of the July cancellations decided by the Government. These cancellations were actually used to finance other missions that had been undervalued in the original finance law: this is particularly the case of the external operations – the OPEX – and the internal missions of the Ministry of Armed Forces, which cost three times as much as expected – 1.5 billion instead of the 534 million voted in the original finance law. It was certainly a necessary catch-up – and it is recalled that it took soldiers to tap the table to show that they could no longer properly carry out the missions assigned to them – but that is not a reason to take on the other ministries. In other words, the previous majority, together with Mr. Macron, did the same thing, and then you planed from one program to the next, with Mr. Macron. At best, it's a cup game. But this is not only an economic or accounting problem, but a democratic problem, and it is for this reason too that we are calling for it to be rejected. In fact, this bill shows that the budget that was finally implemented is very different from the budget that was passed in the original Finance Act. The part executed under the government to which you belong, Minister, is even more austere than what was voted by the previous majority. Thus, the Court of Auditors notes that openings and cancellations of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations have been the most important since the creation of the LOLF. The cancellation decree of 20 July 2017 cancelled more than 2.8 billion in commitment authorities and 3 billion in payment appropriations from the general budget. Given the size of these sums, I believe that you must be accountable to both parliamentarians and citizens. That's the least I can do. I hope that the monarch Macron – Jupiter – cannot yet afford everything in this country. Moreover, the Court of Auditors denounces such a method. Previously, kings had a crown on their heads; Now, unfortunately, they have a paper entitled "Constitution of the Fifth Republic", which allows the executive to be comfortable with Parliament and the thing voted. You have chosen to act by order-in-council. Why didn't you make an amending finance law? For fear of debate? This is also stressed by the Court of Auditors. The future constitutional reform – I would like to talk about it as it was discussed this morning in the Finance Committee – says a lot about the executive's intentions and some contempt for Parliament's oversight function. If this reform were to pass, the review time for finance bills would be reduced by 30 per cent, from 70 days to 50 days of review. Given that the only annexes to this text were more than 22000 pages this year, it is clear that this measure is characteristic of a primary anti-parliamentarianism that you have been trying to install in this country and in society for the past year, suggesting that the only ones responsible for political mistrust are parliamentarians. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, whether you are from the opposition or the majority, that you should fear this development: because the majority becomes, one day, a minority, it is never good for parliamentarians to be mistreated by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u20	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u21	Through parliamentarians, Minister, it is in fact the citizens that you are mistreating.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u22	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u23	You will deprive them of their constitutional right to "recognize, by themselves or by their representatives, the necessity of public contribution, of free consent, of monitoring its use...", as guaranteed to them by article 14 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. This provision clearly indicates that it is the representatives of the nation, the representatives of citizens, who have the power and role to make the law, including the determination of taxes. From this point of view, I regret the very contemptuous statement made by the Government's spokesman, Mr. Benjamin Griveaux, on the parliamentary rhythms, which we can see that you really want to speed them up, while at the same time reducing the role of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u24	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u25	"The parliamentarians are working, it's good," that was the idea, suggesting that this would be a new situation, and that in the past parliamentarians were not working. This is indeed an insulting way of looking at the congregation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u26	We've seen more balanced judgment, it's true.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u27	In the end, you act like managers of human resources, but bad,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u29	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ...that is, people who integrate employees as adjustment variables into their management techniques. I do not want you to make Members of Parliament the adjustment variables of a policy decided by the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u30	We don't intend to!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u31	As far as this bill is concerned, in addition to contempt for Parliament's role in controlling budgetary action by changing the nature of the budget initially voted by it by an order-in-council, you have made a bit of a mockery of us: the bill's explanatory statement always provides a detailed explanation of the appropriations, but – how amazing! – almost none concerning cancellations. You boast that you have "allocated appropriations for certain unavoidable expenses such as the recapitalisation of AREVA or some of the operations of the Ministry of Defence," but the reasons for the cuts that you have otherwise decided do not appear anywhere. However, Parliament would have deserved to be properly informed of the compelling reasons that led to these cancellations. These undemocratic budgetary practices are not isolated. For example, it is currently impossible to know the amount of new funding allocated to the Future Investment Program – IAP – because they are governed by derogatory management arrangements. The general budget appropriations are first paid to operators and then the financing of the projects takes place after and outside the budget framework. This does not make it possible to trace the amounts invested and, above all, the new appropriations actually allocated to investment. Here again, the Court of Auditors denounces "recurring sprains to the main budgetary principles". One can think, for example, of recourse, by the previous majority, to funds without legal personality, such as the Innovation Fund, or of special envelopes dedicated to the energy transition. These funds are a source of opacity and circumvention of budgetary rules. In addition, these two practices largely ignore the challenges attached to the principles of universality, annuality, speciality and sincerity of the budget. Finally, and this is not a small piece, the Court of Auditors pins tax expenditure on a constant increase and is beyond control. She notes that in 2017, tax niche spending totalled EUR 93 billion, an increase of EUR 5.4 billion compared to 2016, and we are already being announced for next year at EUR 100 billion. This inflation, however, affects niches which, again, the Court of Auditors questions the opportunity. I am thinking of the Pinel niche, the Scellier scheme, which alone costs 3.4 billion dollars from the state budget, or the research tax credit – CIR – which costs 5.5 billion euros...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u32	But it really serves research.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u33	... and which intervenes instead of a real public research service, unfortunately largely sabotaged for several years. I am also thinking, of course, of the EUR 16.5 billion wasted under the CICE, with a unit cost per enterprise, depending on the number of jobs preserved or created, from EUR 300 000 to EUR 600 000 per year. It's a record! I observe, moreover, that few of the people who sat in this Chamber when the establishment of the CICE was decided continue to defend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u34	Yes, I'm here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u35	And since we don't want to defend him anymore, we decide to perpetuate him. But the problem will remain the same: this money is given without constraint or control. It is therefore time to put a good sweep in these useless tax niches, which represent real financial abyss for the state. If, of course, we do not agree with the general opinion of the Court of Auditors, which is calling for more and more punctures, in accordance with a well-known budgetary orthodoxy, it must be noted that it points to serious management irregularities in the implementation of the budget, which justify its rejection. This budget has finally been in line with the policy of this government and the precedent: severe with almost all of our fellow citizens, but very generous with some, such as the richest of shareholders. As evidence, the 2017 budget was particularly hard on local and regional authorities, as transfers to them fell by €3 billion. On the other hand, as I said earlier, he has shown himself more graciously with the companies benefiting from the CICE. The other lesson that can be drawn from this bill is that the two governments concerned have benefited from an extremely favourable economic environment, but have decided not to benefit the majority of the population. With a growth rate of 2.2%, instead of the 1.5% assumed in the original finance law, it was 5.5 billion euros of additional tax revenue that went into the state funds. As we feared and as the INSEE study which was presented to us in the Committee on Finance and whose press has begun to echo itself in recent days shows, this growth is in no way due to the policies pursued by this government or the previous one, but is entirely due to a very favourable global economic environment, which has entered one of the cyclical phases that capitalism is experiencing, even when it is financed. For example, in 2017, global growth was 3.7% and euro area growth was 2.5%, with oil barrel prices still low. The two successive governments could have used these additional revenues to reduce inequalities or to invest them in the real economy and in purchasing power. It wasn't, and for good reason! You finally decided to use this revenue to improve the budget balance, in accordance with the Brussels injunctions. But I am well aware, in referring to this alternative that we are defending with France unsolicited, that, on all the benches of this House, we are basing ourselves on budgetary orthodoxy, which accepts as the only valid criteria only the debt and the deficit, which is necessarily to bring down below 3%, as the golden rule wants, without even analysing the nature of the debt. There is no difference between a debt for future generations or that contracted in 2008, which was used to recapitalize banks after the subprime crisis, which continues to cost the French economy very much. Given the size of the planks that have been put to the budget, despite €5.5 billion in additional revenue, one can fear the worst if revenue is ultimately lower than expected in the coming fiscal years. This is also what INSEE has announced. Mr Woerth, earlier, expressed to us his hope that the figures from INSEE were only provisional in nature. As far as I'm concerned, dear President, I'm very worried. Unfortunately, it seems to me that we are closer to the next financial crisis than to a succession of years marked by a revival of activity and sustained growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u36	You're absolutely right: you have to fear the worst!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u37	Indeed, the element that caused the subprime crisis in 2008 is still present: the ever-increasing differential between the real economy and the speculative bubble, which we see constantly swelling without governments acting. Even the opposite happens, since, as you see in your policy, we continue to give shareholders billions without consideration. This bubble, you create it yourself, you maintain it, with all the risks we know. The figures published by INSEE indicate very precise things for the first quarter, including, again, an increase in unemployment of 0.3%. Yet, at the end of 2017, I heard, coming from the government, a "cocorico! It was the policy that began to bear fruit. Unfortunately, as the international economic climate deteriorates, it also deteriorates in France, with an increase of 0.3% in unemployment, a fall in popular consumption in the first quarter of 2018, and a loss of confidence on the part of companies – which does not concern our country alone but extends to the whole euro area. Unfortunately, this shows that we are certainly on the eve of a further decline in economic activity, if not a new crisis. I say "unfortunately" because that is not what we wish our fellow citizens. In any case, we should heal ourselves from this blindness, which prevents us from seeing what is happening. The economic climate, which reflected very high levels of activity in December, has declined, and I am concerned about the consequences that could result if you continue your supply policy, which is based on maintaining the budget deficit below 3% of GDP and on fidelity to Schmidt's theorem. Mr Le Maire had presented the latter here, in a very correct and frank way, claiming that feeding the shareholders' rent made it possible to prepare the investments of tomorrow and the jobs of the day. I do not agree, because this theorem, which was set out in 1974 by German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, has never been proved. I am afraid, minister, that in the name of this double-seated policy, you are preparing for disillusioning tomorrows and that you are leaving the French economy very destitute to face an additional financial shock. On this point, the monetary and fiscal stimulus plans that some states have put in place have allowed the recession that began in 2007 not to turn into a depression, even though European leaders have refused to recognize this positive role of public intervention. I am thinking in particular of the billions of euros that have been injected into economic policy in the United States or Japan. On the other hand, it has been found that the countries that have been the furthest in fiscal austerity, such as Greece, Portugal and Spain, forced by the troika, have experienced a period of real economic depression, of which, no matter what they say, they have still not come out. The current political situation in Italy should not be otherwise analysed. To my colleagues who keep repeating that public spending must be reduced, I would remind them that if the French economy did not enter into recession between 2009 and 2015, it is thanks to public spending. It has guaranteed a level of consumption, therefore revenue, even though the private sector has been abhorrent. As soon as you cut budgets – false cuts since appropriations are increasing, I will be told, as we both know, that they do not rise to the level of forecasts of natural population growth and needs – that is to say, you are attacking public spending in front of you, our economy is going to suffer greatly. I am very afraid that in such a case we will no longer have the mattress that allowed our country to amortize a little bit of the 2008 crisis. Instead of strengthening the state to support the activity, you weaken it through budget cuts, and now through privatisations that you have announced. The Government has already robbed a part of Engie in September 2017, which is more by selling the shares below the market price. Today, you are continuing this privatisation through the PACTE Bill – Action Plan for Business Growth and Transformation – and are going to engage those of the French Games and Paris Airports. With regard to companies that are absolutely strategic, in particular Paris airports, which are among the most important in Europe, it is a mistake to consider that the market – why not Chinese operators, as happened for Toulouse-Blagnac airport – rather than the state can take over aviation safety and safety at short notice. That leaves me pantois. But I'm still left with the very bad business you're setting up for the state. Everyone knows that the proceeds from the sale of these companies, which will abound a fund for innovation, will be less than what the dividends attached to the shares they hold in their capital now bring to them. From this point of view, the calculation is arithmetically irrefutable. Of these privatisations, I am sure that we will say in a few years' time, on all the benches of this House, as we are now asking ourselves about motorway companies: but why did they do that? In fact, we owe it to the privatisation of motorway companies to have the only – or almost all – amendment from our group passed during the review of the finance bill for 2018, no one today dared to defend this privatisation, given what it cost the state. In addition to this, you combine the increase in the generalised social contribution, the CSG, with the decrease of 5 euros of the personalized assistance to housing, the APL, which we learned in catmini that it would not even be indexed anymore,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u38	Not in catini, it was voted in the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u39	... with repercussions on the bill on housing, development and digital development, known as ELAN, which is more of the social housing break-up project since, in order to refinance the donors, you will force them to sell entire sections of the buildings they manage, including in municipalities that do not comply with the law on urban solidarity and renewal and are thinned. This debate, we had in this Chamber two weeks ago. Next year, you are announcing a further decline in LPAs and the freezing of the official index point, again, all of the measures that are detrimental to consumption and economic activity. I explained earlier the mechanism. The continuous impoverishment of the middle and popular strata, for which you do nothing, will greatly aggravate this trend. Demand is falling, production is slowing down dangerously, popular consumption is decreasing, poverty and inequalities are becoming more and more widespread: these are the first results of both your 2017 budget corrections and your 2018 finance law. You ask us to wait for the so-called social measures. They're coming, we're told. I observe that the shareholders did not have to wait long for them to be given the gift of the ISF, the solidarity tax on wealth, or that of the flat tax. Obviously, some impatiences in France benefit from very unequal listening, depending on whether you are poor or rich! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You dare tell us that the social minima, in the words of a famous noctambule who woke up to record a video, "cost a crazy money". I'll tell you what's costing a crazy money.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u40	Reparations in universities?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u41	What costs a crazy money is the 3.5 billion euros of the abolition of the tax on wealth, which benefits only a few thousand people. What costs a crazy money is the €5 billion that the flat tax is going to cost us – and it is certainly far from its final cost, given the boon effect it will have, especially on senior executives who up to now paid in wages rather than dividends. What costs a crazy money is the drop in corporate income tax, which, in addition, continues to benefit from a whole bunch of tax niches. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] What costs a crazy money is – if you go to the end – the removal of the exit tax which, contrary to what we have been told, has not brought back only 70 million euros since 2012, but, as was shown in a bright way in the Finance Committee a few days ago, brought in between 2 and 6 billion euros, if we take into account the tax evasion that it prevented.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u42	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not it at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u43	[[Same movements]] What costs a crazy money is the removal of the last tranche of the trader's wage tax. [[Same movements]] What costs a crazy money is all these shareholders,... ah! I know that this truth bothers you! These are all those shareholders, so, to whom you are constantly giving gifts, as you have done throughout the 2018 Finance Act. We have the impression that your policy only worsens the number of poor people and enriches an ever smaller number of rich people. I assure you that this is not the way to revive an economy! Above all, what costs a crazy money to society is the poverty and inequality that you let get worse, while the rich enjoy your tax gifts. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Your inclination for these ultra-rich people is paved with the hell of the 10 million poor in this country. I'm afraid this Spring of the evaluation will be announced, alas! A harsh winter for the country!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u44	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u45	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The New Left Group will vote against the bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for 2017. Of course, this text is the result of the 2017 Finance Act, for which we voted, but we consider it to have been distorted by the savings plan decided by the Government last summer. This plan, which was not justified, was ideological – I will not go back to the decline in LPAs, nor to the drastic decline in the number of jobs assisted, nor to the massive elimination of funds to support community investment. However, we would like to have a debate on this text, in particular because we have tabled eight amendments on it and we are waiting for explanations on the cancellations of appropriations not consumed and carried over in 2018. That is why we will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u46	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u47	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I am sad that there was no reply from the minister and the rapporteur to the motion for a preliminary rejection defended by my colleague Coquerel. That would have been the minimum for the proper holding of our debates! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] But this shows that the debate is not for the bill. That's a shame! At the time, I myself had expressed my opinion on the 2017 budget on the summer cuts that had been made on the APLs, calling Minister Darmanin a "bourrin" – he probably remembers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u48	Oh, yes! It was an expert word!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u49	It was, in fact, a boar budget. This would require discussion between us to examine the difficulties that the various ministries faced after these chaotic and, to say the least, arbitrary budgetary choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u50	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u51	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] There's an expression I won't use, because it wakes everyone up: it's "crazy money"! We will probably have other opportunities to talk about it. I will not go back to the arguments put forward by my colleague Coquerel; I share them. I just want to say that this bill is a translation of the directions I'm fighting, because it attacks the most disadvantaged in our society, by reducing the amount of LPOAs or by challenging the jobs that are being helped. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For these reasons, through my voice, the Communist deputies and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will support the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u52	The next speaker is Mr Philippe Chassating, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u53	Unlike you, Mr Coquerel, I have the feeling that the economic situation in our country has improved. To begin with, we have fulfilled our European commitments. We pushed the government deficit below the 3% of GDP threshold, which had not happened since 2008. And when the deficit is again under control, it is the voice of France that speaks differently within Europe. It seems to me that the fulfilment of our commitments has enabled this additional growth that has generated jobs. You're easily occulting it and sweeping it away with a back of your hand, but today, unemployment is falling in our country. I also feel that this bill reflects our seriousness and our sense of responsibility. When the Constitutional Council censored the 3% dividend tax and it was necessary to decide, in November, during the review of the amending finance bill, it seems to me that we took on our responsibilities. Finally, I believe that this bill is the beginning of confidence. Moreover, a number of indicators show a more favourable economic situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u54	We don't live in the same country!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u55	That is why the La République en marche group will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u56	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The National Assembly is, of course, a place for debate, a place for the expression of democracy. As much as I can understand that we have different visions on both sides of the Chamber – and I do not agree with the opinion of our colleague from the Republic on the move – I find that a motion to reject a bill of regulation beforehand does not make much sense. [[Smile]] I wasn't saying that so you'd applaud me! The proposed Regulations reflect the one-year accounting order. We may or may not agree with the choices that have been made, but reject a situation that is, by nature, frozen and definitive, excuse me, it doesn't make much sense. We will have this debate on next year's review of the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u58	Why should we have a vote then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u59	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Until now, Mr. Bernalicis, there were none. We wanted to have one. However, the debate in committee or the rejection in the House does not make any sense, since it is a decree of the accounts. We may not share or even deplore the choices that have been made, but to reject a bill of regulations is, in my opinion, meaningless. That is why the Republican Group will not vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u60	The next speaker is Mr Charles de Courson, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u61	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Strange debate! The minister in office, had he still been a member of Parliament at the time, would have voted against the original 2017 finance bill. However, he found himself on the bench of the Government to explain that it was necessary to vote for a budget that was not his own. But, ladies and gentlemen, he just tried to adjust it! [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Strange debate! This motion to reject it beforehand, if we adopt it, we could certainly go to bed, but it would have no other significance. If: The only scope this would have is that the deficit of the year cannot be carried over into the government's cumulative deficit. You'll admit everyone doesn't care! It happened once in the history of public finances. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You will therefore understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the IDU, Action and Independent Group will not vote in favour of the motion for a preliminary rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u62	As the House is well lit, we can now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u63	[[Smile]] The bourrin would like to talk, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u64	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u65	I will make two quick remarks. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] First of all, I want to say to Mrs Battistel and to the members of the New Left and the Democratic and Republican Left groups that the political debate cannot encourage counter-truths. With regard to aided contracts, with regard to 2017, I would point out to those who were very pleased with their budget that the total insinuity with which they had built it led to the fact that there was no money for the aided contracts they were implementing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u66	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u67	Indeed, dear lady, when I came to the responsibilities, 60% of the budget for the aided contracts had been consumed in the first four months of the year – no doubt the presidential election was for something. So I had to open an envelope of 188 million euros in amending finance law in order to be able to pay the people you hired. I therefore believe that criticism of aided contracts is directed rather at your political side. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As for Mr de Courson, if he wishes me to defend the budget that I have, if I dare to say it, imagined and accomplished, I wish both of us a chance to meet in the Chamber next year in the same places.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u68	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a period of not more than 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u69	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this is a strange debate, in many ways. We are told that if we voted against the bill, it would not have much effect – by the way, voting for it would have no more.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u70	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u71	As a result, the motion to reject would at most allow for discussion. In this case, perhaps you will pay more attention to the motion for referral back to committee, which would, if adopted, prolong the discussion – I am sure you would all be delighted. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It is also strange to hear the chairman of the Committee on Finance defend the budgetary choices of the current majority and finally say that these same choices dissolute him. I didn't understand: a few moments earlier, I would almost have thought he was a member of the Government! He praised the reduction of the deficit and the budget cuts made from July onwards; He said these choices had to be made and he approved them. We can see that the right is in power, and this may have been too long!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u72	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u73	Change the chorus!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u74	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I will not go back to what my colleague Éric Coquerel has said, which has been particularly brilliant, but I want to share with you some thoughts. "Society has the right to ask any public official to account for its administration": this is article 15 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789. This sentence was quoted at the beginning of a forum signed by several colleagues – who are also present in the Chamber this evening – to call for the creation of a public policy evaluation office that is independent of the executive and can be used by parliamentarians to discuss the budget and have figures other than those of the executive. The observation is shared by everyone that there is a glaring deficit in Parliament's means of evaluation. Such a parliamentary office could solve problems – it would still need resources. I hear that it could soon be created, but on a quasi-constant basis, since a number of staff would be redeployed to the Assembly to compose it. That would be a shame, because we would rather need a war machine to be able to examine the figures of the executive, which, from my point of view, are not always sincere – and that is not the proper one of the previous majority. In my view, there should be genuine transparency between administrations and parliamentarians as regards economic and budgetary data. And then, why not, let's be crazy, let's be disruptive, let's free the energies and associate the people with our reflection, through a form of citizen evaluation! The first step could be to disseminate the Court of Auditors' working documents, annual performance reports and budget explanatory notes to all citizens, and not only to the members of the Finance Committee, so that they can deal with them, as well as civil society, trade unions and associations. For the time being, we are only debating with each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u75	These documents are public!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u76	No, dear colleague, they will only be public once we have passed the settlement law – little shade! Our citizens will therefore be able to make ex post evaluation, when they have the time, but they cannot participate in our work and our debates. One could imagine, why not, motions for resolutions drawn up by representatives of civil society and necessarily discussed by Members, at least in committee. There would be a little point in opening the debate to a large extent, rather than confining it to enlarged committees or to a Chamber dealing with issues of little importance, to paraphrase one of my colleagues. It is clear that a form of budgetary censorship is at work, for as long as parliamentarians have neither the time nor the means to evaluate the complex arrangements of the Government nor the means of calculation that would make their proposals viable, then the Parliament itself will be censored. Finally, who in this House has read all the annual performance reports to get an idea of the budget?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u77	Me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u78	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Seeing his mine a little tired, I imagine there is one person, however: our colleague Joël Giraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u79	I'm tired?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u80	He's not tired at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u81	[[Smile]] I just did the "string"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u82	[[Smile]] Your fatigue is therefore not due to the reading of the annual performance reports: very well! However, these documents refer only to the accounts for year n-1: this is not a small matter. And obtaining some specific elements, not this time on the state budget, but on the budget of our assembly, has raised some difficulties. While it may be difficult to obtain elements from the executive, it may also prove difficult, it seems, to obtain from its own majority... As my colleague Éric Coquerel has pointed out, with such a way of working, you deprive people of their constitutional right "to see, by themselves or by their representatives, the necessity of public contribution, of free consent, of monitoring its use", according to the terms of article 14 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights. [["Ah! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] Why aren't the figures presented by the executive always as sincere as what we're supposed to believe? In this regard, I must tell you my old life. The under-funding of EAs – commitment authorities – which affect all departments, in other words, prevents budgetary sincerity. It's a truth! To explain why, let me take my little verse back to the 4... We are going to go into the details of the budget implementation, which, as you know, consists of four flows: 1, 2, 3 and 4, therefore. Flow 4 relates, for example, to fuel costs. For the other three streams, you can first establish an order form, also called "legal commitment". It's like saying, "That's what I'm planning on getting out of the money." To this act of budgetary forecast succeeds the provision, the service rendered that translates the expenditure into reality; After which you pay the bill. But, for fuel expenses, you cannot know exactly what the amount of the invoice will be: you must first fill in – that seems logical. In other words, you consume commitment authorizations and payment credits when you pay the invoice. Let us now consider the end of the budget year. Each year, all departments have flow 4 invoices which, stacked on the desks, are not recorded in the Chorus software package. Why? Because there is no more available EI. And without AE, you can't save a stream bill 4. This is therefore not reflected in the accounts. As a result, invoices are paid at the beginning of the fiscal year to fund the previous year's accounts. And every year it's the same! Where does this appear in the documents given to parliamentarians? Personally, I know the subject because, in my former duties at the Ministry of the Interior, I was dealing with the Chorus platform. So I knew who paid those bills, who consumed the AEs and CPs. Like everyone else, I was reduced to observing these piles of bills, of various amounts, varying from year to year. Our gendarmes, as you know, live in barracks often rented to local authorities; So that we know that, over the next three, six, nine or fifty years, we will have to pay rents, budgetary or private. Therefore, commitment authorizations should be put in front of each other. Where are they? Nowhere. The national gendarmerie can now function because it has created a fictitious debt on its rent expenses, in order to "turn the shop". It is to tell you that, for the numbers we are given, if the order of magnitude is correct, things are a little more complicated in detail. I had to share the subject with you, given the astonishment he aroused in my home when I arrived on those benches. Someone will end up saying, I thought, that the numbers that go up are not exactly the right ones! [["Ah! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You also need to think about the invoices that, for example, were not paid in 2017, for example, in early 2018. The accounts, as you know, are closed at the beginning of December: from December 10 or 11, you do not pay any more bills, whereas, in the real world, the appropriations are only opened on January 7 or 8! That's how it happens. However, any invoice not paid within 30 days – as is the case with most of the ones I am talking about – carries a moratorium of interest. Since 2013, you have even had to pay a kind of flat-rate fine of 40 euros per invoice in respect of these interest moratoriums. This represents several million euros across the country. I will not be able to give you the exact figure, since for that to happen, Minister Darmanin would have to question his services on the subject; But I am sure that one day he will be able to tell us how many million euros the carry-overs of charges for the moratorium interest, because of the under-pricing in AE – and the very short-term under-pricing since, if all the necessary appropriations were allocated, all the invoices would be paid before the end of the year concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u83	We need to increase payment deadlines, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u84	It is also possible to do so, my dear colleague – even if I am not necessarily in absolute favour of it – but it involves asking banks to make the cash advances that are lacking for small, medium and sometimes even large companies. Sometimes companies put the key under the door, not for lack of money to enter, but for lack of cash advance sufficient to make ends meet. This is not acceptable, and there have been examples in this country. [["Ah! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Exclaims and applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Your question is therefore legitimate, my dear colleague, but I must now turn to 3%. I cannot go up to this rostrum without referring to this subject: my colleague Coquerel spoke about it too, Mr Woerth, and Minister Darmanin in turn. One cannot, I said, go up to this rostrum when one considers a bill of regulation or a bill of finance, not to mention the famous 3%: it is a sort of imposed figure! What are these 3 per cent? Beyond 3%, point of salvation: isn't that the formula, minister? What is this story? Some senior French official – since France is at the initiative of this rule – decided, one day, that it was necessary to set a figure beyond which, a priori, "it was no longer doing so" in budgetary terms. No scientific study – none! – does not prove and will never prove that the budget situation is bad above this rate, and great below it. No one's ever shown it! Yet it is the sacrosanct rule put forward by all successive majorities to justify cutting here and there, with scissors. As for the people who need public power and public services, well, they'll wait, they'll come back next year, when we're below 3%!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u85	The target is not 3% deficit, but zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u86	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] All right? I even heard that the goal was to have excess budgets... as in Germany – that's how the sentence ends, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u87	That'd be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u88	It's still pretty crazy! Germany has overbudgets, but also needs and shortages in terms of public services, and even road infrastructure, for example! Wouldn't it be smarter to spend that money to create activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u89	Where is your study?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u90	That is what should be done, because the current situation may eventually create only recession and disorder, knowing that the poverty rate in Germany continues to rise. Unfortunately, this is the fate of our country, too, with the policy that was carried out in 2017, which will continue to be carried out in 2018 and subsequent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u91	What's the right number, if not 3%? Is that 4%? Or 10%? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u92	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movements]] Personally, I don't care about the 3%! As you know, La France insoumée has drawn up a counter-project to the finance bill for 2018. In our projections, we proposed to put on the table an investment plan of EUR 100 billion for the energy transition, to see the emergence of a peasant agriculture again or to promote entry into the sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u93	Why not 1,000 billion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u95	[[Same movements]] [[New exclamations and laughs on several benches of the LaREM group]] Why not 1000 billion, indeed, but we have retained the figure of 100 billion, because we have started from the needs we have seen. This would lead to a public deficit of 7%. Do you realize? And according to the economic trajectory we have calculated – I see, ladies and gentlemen, that you are very interested in our counter-budget – our country would achieve, with identical parameters and allowing the economic machine to resume, a deficit level of less than 1% after five years. In other words, we would respect the famous 3% rule without even wanting it, even though it would not be an objective in itself! That is why, in any case, your own policy will bring the deficit back to above 3%. Tax receipts won't be on the rendezvous. Earlier, you were talking about an additional €8 billion in VAT; But these billions, they were obtained thanks to the consumption, on which the VAT is based! Increasing the point of index of public servants, said our colleague Woerth, "it put us in it!" This decision, taken by the previous majority, would, according to him, have been quite unwelcome. But this increase, which is quite small – twice 0.6%, it is not grandiose either – where has it gone? Did the officials put that money on the moon, on Jupiter? No, they consumed it! Money falls back into the economic cycle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u96	He's running!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u97	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] That is why we are calling for an increase in the SMIC for us, for example, so that money "strikes" to the state, to public services, and returns, in a virtuous circle, to citizens. Public service, let us recall, is the heritage of those who have nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u98	We have a fine example of what you describe in Venezuela!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u99	Finally, sincerity only engages those who believe in it. [[Smile]] I'm coming to the Spring of Evaluation – to one day, it was over! More seriously, beyond a beautiful slogan, the Spring of Evaluation amounts to layering the procedure of the initial finance bill, with the enlarged commissions where we come to discuss the annual performance reports. In concrete terms, the Spring of Evaluation, these are extended commissions which are given an even wider scope. Special rapporteurs come to speak after having conducted a few hearings in their area – because, given the pace of our work, they find themselves somewhat alone in this exercise. I attended the meeting of the Public Policy Evaluation Committee on several missions: "Security", "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" and "General and Territorial Administration of the State". All this was dealt with in two and thirty hours, and I had, as far as I was concerned, twice two minutes to evaluate. Two two-minute questions to conduct my evaluation! And again, I was able to speak twice because I took two minutes on behalf of my group: that's how lucky I was! Four minutes to evaluate! And evaluate what? I asked the minister a technical question that he was unable to answer at the time. Did the outsourcing of the management of medical expenses within the national police, I asked, cost more than the previous system of internal management? "Mr. Member," he said, "I think we will continue to replace it by increasing the number of administrative staff." There was therefore a slight problem, as the minister did not understand the meaning of my question very well, nor did the member of his cabinet accompanying him. We have explained this point at the end of the meeting, but have only two minutes and no answer to the question asked, does it not plead that we should review the way in which we operate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u100	It may also be that the question was not clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u101	The next step was the motion for a resolution. That was huge! Personally, I participated in the one dealing with the means given to justice to combat terrorism. Nice subject! We have therefore discussed – since this is the purpose of the motions for resolutions – a text that is quite identical in substance to the bill of regulations: I mean that it has, in the end, no value, if not, to allow us to discuss. Besides, we talked about a little strange numbers. For example – to make everyone aware – it was planned to allocate € 223 million of operating appropriations to the fight against terrorism in the judicial justice budget – programme 166 for intimates – out of a total operating budget of about € 850 million. The previous year, in 2016, that was 123 million. We're like, "Awesome! It's increased by 112 million! We made an effort on that! And we welcome it, etc. Except that between 2016 and 2017, the overall operating budget decreased by 16 million. I didn't understand what happened! In fact, it is a poster policy. There is no sincerity in the budget: we are talking about expenditure which was also made, apart from the plan to combat terrorism, and which has been put in the mill by stating that it would henceforth be a matter of the fight against terrorism. It is true that in a ministry, in a management, there are many things that contribute to the fight against terrorism. You put surveillance cameras in a court: you can put them on the "Anti-Terrorism Plan" line. And so on. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] And that's what we're here to discuss at the National Assembly? To end up with a text that won't change anything? I think it's a waste of time. And that's too bad, because we spend hours there, because I spend minutes explaining this to you. Plus, at the hourly rate, it's expensive!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u102	It's all right...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u103	In fact, you're pursuing a goal. I don't think the majority is actually talking for nothing. The objective is very clear; It is to be able to say: "As we discussed well in the spring, we will have to discuss a little less in the fall, please, ladies and gentlemen! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u104	You're distorting everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u105	But what happens in the fall? The discussion of the real finance bill, the one that commits our political choices, the one that will tell us what policies we are going to pursue, the objectives they will pursue, the indicators they will use, etc. You're reducing the amount of time we spend on it by 30%. This, in fact, is the objective: to corse even more the debate on the finance law, so that we can take it even less. And that's too bad. I told Eric Woerth at the Presidents' Conference, the day this arrangement was discussed. I told him that I found it good, on the merits, that we are doing the Spring of the Evaluation, that is, we are taking time to evaluate. But we have to do this in addition to what we're doing in the context of the finance bill, to be more effective when we're talking about this bill, not to have less time, when it's already enough race like that when it comes to looking at the various budget programs: it's not a small deal, when we take things seriously – and I'm sure that's the case with many here. Finally, it was perhaps once again the democratry that went through it, in an attempt to further strengthen the power of the executive at the expense of the legislature. And yet, we could have done nice things. I spoke to you earlier about how we could have been truly disruptive: through a citizen evaluation. We could have thought that, perhaps, it interests people, what is happening here, the way we used their taxes – we tell them quite often, about this or that public service: "But at last, my little lady, at last, sir, it is still your taxes that we are discussing: we must take this seriously! » We could also, for example – I would like to make a proposal, dear colleague who chairs the Committee on Finance – put our questions in writing, a little bit like the question-and-answer procedure to a minister. Thus, the minister, who was asked about specific elements of the annual performance report, would have time to prepare his answers in advance, knowing what was being asked of him. Because if I had been in his place this time, I would have said, "Wait, I don't know the budget by heart, I can't go into the detail of all the expenses, nor answer you from the pock to the pock when you ask me why we spent 3 million more here, 2 million there," etc. Then, in the oral part, there would be a restitution that would allow an exchange on the question previously asked. I would find this more fruitful and more interesting. [[Riressur several benches of the LaREM group]] Here is another proposal – for you had forgotten it, but France is not only the first opponent: it is also the first proposer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u106	See you on a date!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u107	I propose a major change: to amend the performance indicators and objectives contained in the annual performance projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u108	It's already possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u109	No, performance indicators and targets cannot be amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u110	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u111	No, my colleague: I tried, as you can see, at the time of the 2018 Finance Bill, but my amendments were rebutted by the Senate department: "Mr.Men," I was told, "this is not a matter for the legislator, it is a matter of regulation."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u112	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u113	But I contest this analysis: the legislator is not just here to validate amounts, but also to say what these billions are going to do. That is the nobility of the budget debate! I am not discussing the breakdown within each budget, which falls within the scope of the regulation. In addition, fungibility is guaranteed by the LOLF. So that's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u114	We're a little far from the settlement law...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u115	But we need to be able to amend the objectives and indicators – not to discuss them, because it does not mean anything, but to amend them. This is a disruptive proposal in the small world of public finances! In the end, that's politics: it's addressing these goals. And I'm here, with my colleagues from La France unsuspecting, to do politics,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u116	Ah, that! ...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...not blah-blah.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u118	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREMet UDI-Agir groups]] Mr Bernalicis, just one word. The motions for referral to committee are right, but you are doing something unprecedented in Parliament's history: this is the first time a motion for referral to committee has been defended by a group that has not tabled any amendments in committee. I do not know why we should go back to committee, but I would like to say that because, really, it is a first.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u120	We turn to explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee. Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u121	Mr General, you have taken the words out of my mouth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u122	A thousand apologies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u123	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] But please, I agree with you. Indeed, the panel discussions were rich and the Spring of the Evaluation was a first. Many of our colleagues, on various benches, participated and brought their stone to the building. And it is precisely by working on the Spring of Evaluation that we will succeed in making the tasks entrusted to us by the Constitution, namely, the evaluation of public policies and the monitoring of the Government, truly effective and efficient. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] My group will vote against the motion for referral back to committee in a logical and expected way. See you for the next Spring of the evaluation and, above all, for the rest of our work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u124	The next speaker is Mr Michel Lauzzana, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u125	I would like, above all, to recall that we inherited a 2017 finance law passed by the previous majority. In June 2017, the Prime Minister asked the Court of Auditors to conduct an audit of public finances; the latter has highlighted important sub-budgetizations, hence elements of insincerity. This situation required responsible action by the Government. In total, almost €5 billion of measures, or more than 0.2% of GDP, were taken to manage government expenditure in the second half of the year. They were without aggravating the carry-over of charges to the 2018 fiscal year. Thanks to the courageous decisions of the Government, combined with a favourable economic situation, France has left the excessive deficit procedure, for the first time since 2009. In view of the responsible attitude of the Government in the implementation of the 2017 budget, the Parliament's assessment of the settlement law had to be just as virtuous. The Spring of the Evaluation is thus part of an unprecedented, responsible and constructive approach. Unpublished, as eighteen public policy evaluation committees took place in two weeks, in the presence of the ministers concerned. Responsible, because, thanks to these eighteen committees, we were able to take the time for a real evaluation. Constructive, finally, because our majority wants to better evaluate and control for better regulation tomorrow. [[Mr. Daniel Labaronne applauds]] A good job has therefore been done in committee. But, as has been said, the Group of the European People's Party has not tabled any amendments, either in committee or in public sittings. This is proof, if necessary, that, by its motion for referral to committee, this group is only seeking to adopt a political stance. We have just received confirmation of that by listening to his speaker. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For these reasons, the La République en marche group will not vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u126	Is that all you have to answer to our proposals? It's not good to write his speech in advance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u127	You're so predictable, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u128	Please! The next speaker is Mr Charles de Courson, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u129	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Laughs and applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in referring back to committee. The proof: you have not tabled any amendments in committee; Then what would you say? "We don't have anything to say, so we're going back to a public session"? That would be interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u130	We've known you better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u131	Secondly, my dear colleague, you rightly said that the 3% was not serious. I have always defended this thesis: I will not change it to please you. What is the order of magnitude of the public deficit rate that France can afford? I don't know if you asked yourself that question. Two approaches are possible to respond to this. The first is to say that one does not have the right to be in debt to finance operating expenses, only for capital expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u132	Like town halls!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u133	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] It's for the local authorities. For social security, the operating deficit is only EUR 8 or 9 billion. For the state, it is 15 or 20 billion depending on how we count. In total, there are some 30 billion, or 1.3-1.4% of GDP. France cannot afford to have a deficit of more than 1.3 or 1.4% of GDP. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] I haven't cut you down, ladies and gentlemen. Democracy is to respect those who do not think like you! [[Exclaims on FI banks]] The second approach is to consider the level of the so-called stabilizing deficit, i.e. such that public debt no longer increases as a percentage of GDP. This calculation results in 1.2 or 1.3 per cent of GDP. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] You see, we're still around 1-1.2%. So 3%, my dear colleague, is very excessive. France cannot afford a 3% deficit. That is why we will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u134	The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u135	It amuses me a little to see some here talking like Molière's doctors, who, in their time, explained to us that it was necessary to bleed, ever more bleeding, to treat the patient, who ended up dying from it. Actually, I take your arguments very seriously. But also agree that with policies that are little or no evidence of supply policies, born decades ago in France, we have seen the explosion of unemployment almost everywhere,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u136	We'll take care of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u137	There's full employment in Germany!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u138	...the explosion of poverty within the fifth world economic power, the explosion of deficits themselves: you can't even bring in revenue since you are constantly weakening the taxes, and the taxes of the richest! It also amuses me a little to hear people, here, giving lessons to everyone,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u139	Who gives lessons?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u140	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... as if the writings of so many anti-liberal economists, including Jacques Généreux or Christophe Ramaux, which are worth at least as much as those you quote, could be swept away with a turn of hands, because here we are between serious people! But what is your economic record? It's catastrophic! It is a record of unemployment, a record of poverty, privatisations – I mentioned earlier, you didn't have a word to answer – that are expensive in the country! So a little modesty, okay? [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, I would like to thank those who replied on the substance, even if we do not agree. But, Mr Giraud, how many amendments, in all and for all, have they been tabled on this text? Twelve! How many were deposited by La République en marche? Zero! So what is this way of doing it? So why is this idea that motions could only be tabled – although our Rules of Procedure allow us to do so – if we have also tabled amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u141	It's called logic!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u142	Let me tell you something, ladies and gentlemen. We have tabled hundreds of amendments. We are not the only ones: the whole opposition has done it for a year. And I have heard a lot here saying, 'We agree with your amendments on principle, but...' Only a dozen of our amendments had to be accepted in total, and again, most of them only tended to ask for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u143	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u144	Even when you agree, you do not vote for the opposition's amendments, you do not want them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u145	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u146	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So don't come now to teach us the lesson, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u147	Mr Gilles Lurton, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u148	My dear colleague, I am sorry, but in a motion to refer the text back to committee, we have to give some arguments in order to refer it back to committee. However, I have not heard any of them in your speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u149	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u150	No! You made remarks about the general method and how we worked on this bill, but I did not hear anything that could justify a referral to committee. I would have understood your speech perfectly if it had taken place in general discussion, where we can say what we want on the text. But there, we have to approve the accounts, which have been arrested, of a past finance bill. I therefore do not see what a referral to committee could bring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u151	Then what are we doing here?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u152	I have fully understood your method, the motion for referral to committee, to say everything that cannot be said otherwise. But I do not see why we would adopt it for such a subject. On the other hand, in one of the explanations of vote on Mr.Coquerel's motion to reject him in advance, I heard that the APL freeze had been voted in the Finance Act. That is true, but it was voted by the majority. We must not involve the entire National Assembly in this vote. We did not vote, and I would like to repeat that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u153	That's great! Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u154	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u155	I would like to join Mrs.Dalloz in a bill of regulation, and the accounts are closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u156	It's a settlement of accounts, actually!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u157	What's the point of going back to committee to return these accounts in every direction? That would not change the results. On the other hand, the analysis of variances between forecasts and implementation is interesting. We have, for our part, proposed amendments to discuss in the Chamber, in particular with regard to cancellations of appropriations which seem very important: EUR 340 million on the prison administration; EUR 84 million on school education; EUR 131 million on work and employment: EUR 25 million on the national gendarmerie. However, these programmes are a matter of national priorities. Since we will not go back to committee – I do not imagine that the motion will be voted on – I hope you can explain to us, minister, why the appropriations were cancelled and not carried over. I would also like to have more explanations from the minister on the declination of policies in the territories, because they do not, in fact, have the same impact. We talked a lot about the decree in advance. You had, by the way, some kind of enjoyment to call us insinuaries... But insinuity is not my thing! For being mayor like me, you know that very well. When you're a mayor, you have to submit sincere budgets.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u158	It's the Court of Auditors!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u159	You've got a great game to hide behind her! In reality, these accounts, these corrective decisions, are real politics. But you have made political choices that seem to me quite insinuating in the light of Mr Macron's programme. The decline in LPAs and the abolition of aided contracts were not part of its programme. In terms of insinuity, we are at a point everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u160	In the general debate, Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u161	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, if we see an improvement in the state's budgetary balance in 2017, it is in fact only a smokescreen, which is based on one thing: the sudden acceleration of economic activity, of which nothing ensures that it is sustainable, and even less capable of stabilizing our financial situation. In fact, the deficit in the state budget has only been reduced at the margin, a decrease of €1.4 billion compared to the balance recorded in 2016, far from the triumphant announcement effects of the executive in recent weeks. Even though the deficit is declining, it is still high, accounting for more than 20 % of net expenditure in the general budget and is close to EUR 22 billion higher than that which would stabilize debt in the gross domestic product. At the same time, all other financial indicators have deteriorated. Our country needs in-depth structural reforms to control its expenditure and rebalance its accounts. Minister, the text you are presenting to us is not such as to reassure us of the proper use of public funds, nor of the efficiency of public spending. To my great regret, I see no debt relief or discharge. As such, several observations need to be made. First, the new trajectory of the government deficit is nothing more than an accounting translation of growth, which amounts to 2.2% instead of the 1.5% initially forecast. Thus, revenue is actually up 14.4 billion euros compared to 2016, representing an increase of 5.5 billion euros, compared to the original finance law. You will answer to me, Minister, that this is due to the action of the Government and to all the efforts that have been made. Unfortunately, for us, the truth is quite different. The increase is the result of the revival of economic activity, which led to the dynamism of tax revenues observed at the end of the year. According to the Court of Auditors, tax elasticity thus stood at 1.8 in 2017, above its long-term value, close to 1. In reality, the increase in tax revenues is not based on a long-term policy and thought, but rather on a combination of circumstances, which some have called "the alignment of the planets". The Court of Auditors has also alerted you on this point when examining its report in public session: this situation is only temporary. It poses a significant risk to the burden of our debt. What will we do if interest rates go up? Did you anticipate this case – because it will go back in the short or medium term? Let me be concerned about this, as the additional revenue has not been used to reform. Secondly, Minister, growth does not exempt you from thinking about measures to reduce the structural share of public expenditure. In contrast to everything that had to be done, you have accelerated the slippage of public spending. State spending increased rapidly in 2017, as a result of the decisions taken in the original finance law. However, the Court of Auditors had highlighted clear under-budgeting and significant carry-overs from the previous year. In addition, you have benefited from a low level of the levy for the European Union, which should have resulted in a reduction in expenditure. It didn't happen! In the end, the slippage was EUR 6.4 billion, of which EUR 4.4 billion was for sub-budgeting alone. State spending has gone up by EUR 12 billion in one year, of which EUR 10.6 billion, excluding debt and pensions, for the field of ministries alone, i.e. an increase of 4.8%, while at the same time imposing a contract with local authorities to contain the increase in their expenditure at 1.2%. Staff costs, excluding pensions, increased by 4 per cent, more than in the past six years. As for operating expenses, this is an increase of 4.7 per cent, at constant scope. In summary, total government debt increased from 96.6% to 96.8% of GDP between 2016 and 2017. Minister, the government's handle effects are only made possible by a simple mechanical effect. As public accounts remain largely in deficit, public debt in euro continues to grow in 2017, reaching 2218 billion at the end of the year, up from 2_152.5 billion at the end of 2016. Expressed as a percentage of national wealth, the evolution is inevitably unfavourable. At the end of 2017, public debt reached its highest historical level, a steady increase since the 2008 financial crisis. If nothing is done, the debt could exceed 100% of GDP, during your majority's term of office. The first President of the Court of Auditors has been very clear, last Monday in our Chamber: "After a year 2017 of very strong growth in the spending of ministries, the prospects for the recovery of the state's finances for the years to come will depend on its real capacity to control its spending and thus to comply with the commitments of the law on the programming of public finances. » The message is clear! This is not in any way what your Secretary of State described yesterday as "purge," although it is always easier to hide behind great words to do nothing. You have a real responsibility. Rather than focusing on communication, there is a need to move towards a more efficient public service at a controlled cost. This must be the course that the Government should not lose sight of, while the growth prospects for 2018 are already being revised downwards. In fact, INSEE expected growth to decline significantly in 2018, reaching 1.7% at the end of the year, well behind the 2.3% recorded in 2017. The Institute also reveals that purchasing power will only grow by 1% in 2018, compared to 1.4% in 2017, marking the failure of the state's fiscal and fiscal policy over the past year. To this will be added the devastating consequences of the implementation of the levy at source as early as January 2019, further aggravating the feeling of declining purchasing power. I am fully aware that France is not the only European country with a deceleration, but we are already lagging behind all our partners. In 2017, the debt of the 28 EU countries was 88.1%. French public expenditure in 2017 amounted to 56.4% of GDP, with an average of 47.1% in the euro area. To sum up, we are spending more and less on results. Let us take advantage of the Spring Evaluation experiment to set together ambitious targets to be achieved during the fiscal semester of the Finance Act. It is crucial to be on the rendezvous this autumn: we owe it to our fellow citizens. Controlling the wage bill of public administrations and operating expenses, re-prioritizing structural measures are the challenges facing the Government. As we understand it, the latest macroeconomic indicators suggest that the economic situation will be less favourable than expected at the end of the quinquennium. Consequently, the President of the Republic is urged by the High Council for Public Finance to honour his commitments and, by the IMF, to reform public administration at all levels. Mr Minister, it is clear that you will not be able to finance the exemption from overtime from social security contributions by decreasing growth; the reduction of production taxes; the removal of small taxes; the remaining zero charge; the Universal National Service Project; or the removal of the housing tax for affluent households. You are facing a major challenge to improve the lives of the French and to restore their confidence in their future. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Communities also expect lasting solutions, faced with the many challenges they face, after consequent and successive reductions in government allocations. Let's just say that we don't expect measures like the 80-kilometre-hour shift to meet the challenges of rural life. Minister, as you approach a dangerous turn, we expect you at the turn of the day: it is up to you and your majority to negotiate it without slipping!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u162	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u163	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, this law of settlement gives rise to extremely encouraging elements for public finances, in particular the reduction of the public deficit to 2.6% of GDP. While this decrease in the government deficit is partly due to a favourable economic situation, the Government's choices have also contributed to this start of recovery. These are politically courageous choices, such as the cancellations of credits last July or the exceptional surtax on companies, which have enabled public finances to get sounder. However, it is not yet time for complacency and several points still deserve our attention. Thus, the structural balance needs to be monitored, as there are still real substantive reforms to be made. It should also be noted that there is little improvement in the budgetary balance. But it is necessary, Minister, that we look at all the public accounts: the state and its operators, social security and local and regional authorities. This reduction in the government deficit allows us to get out of the excessive deficit procedure in which we have been engaged since 2009 ; It must be seen as a necessary first step on the path of a return to balance. This balance is not sought by orthodoxy, it is on the contrary an objective to which we tend by pragmatism. Indeed, the debt burden now amounts to EUR 42 billion a year, and this amount could increase if interest rates go up. These 42 billion would be better used elsewhere: in financing the dependency and support of our elderly, in youth and education, or in supporting associations. Thus – it is important to stress this – the fact of returning to balance is not a policy in itself, it is above all a question of good management of public funds, and we must achieve this. Restoring fiscal balance and exiting the excessive deficit procedure also means strengthening France's voice vis-à-vis our European partners and showing that we are able to deliver on our commitments. Without great originality, the deleveraging of France can go through two axes: an increase in revenue or a decrease in expenditure. The first axis is excluded since it is on the contrary a reduction that we aim for, in an assumed way. Thus, it is towards the second axis that we want to look at, in particular by carrying out internal work, administration by administration, in order to analyse expenditure and try to spend better and more efficiently. Our spending must become more efficient; public money is scarce and expensive, and we must be rigorous. In the same way, the "Public Action 2022" programme, which aims to "rethink the model of public action by in-depth questioning the professions and modes of public action in the light of the digital revolution which redefines the contours of our society", should make it possible "to restore meaning, coherence and readability to public action". In our view, therefore, it fits perfectly and naturally into this work of seeking efficiency. However, while we can be pleased with the good results of 2017, there are many indications that French growth will slow down in the years to come. Many parameters show this, and several economists believe that we were at the top of a cycle, which allowed us to earn some budgetary resources. It is therefore necessary to implement these reforms today because everything suggests that the economic situation will deteriorate; We must therefore be vigilant. Moreover, the geopolitical situation, with the United States retreating on its own and seem to go towards – I dare this term – a trade war, including with its allies, weakens the economy. It is therefore necessary to anticipate crises in order to overcome them when they occur. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the need for a bold and bold reform of the High Council for Public Finance, which would provide it with even greater independence from the Government. Several colleagues – Jean-Noël Barrot, Amélie de Montchalin, Laurent Saint-Martin and many others – have worked on the tools to be preferred. Indeed, we consider it necessary and relevant to extend the tasks of this body to the implementation of the macro-economic and public finance forecasts currently provided by Bercy. These forecasts serve as a basis for budget texts and it may seem crucial that this basis be as objective and sincere as possible. This would, in particular, provide an objective scenario in the event of an economic downturn or cycle reversal, as governments tend to be too optimistic in these situations. Thus, in its opinion on the stability programme, the High Council for Public Finance had pointed out that the Government's growth forecasts for 2020-2022 seemed overestimated, as they did not take into account a likely slowdown in growth after the 2017 high cycle. This expansion of the powers of the High Council would give it greater independence, thereby giving it greater sincerity in the discussions on budget texts, which would benefit all and this Assembly in particular. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] By way of conclusion, I would like to quote two well-known currencies, which some will recognize: "winter is coming" perhaps, but the state "still pays its debts". If I often call for more audacity, once it is not customary: continue in the budgetary framework on the path of prudence and sincerity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u164	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u165	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we meet one year after the 2017 elections to close the last financial year of the previous quinquennium. The situation is surprising: we are in a game of shadows where cowboys have become Indians and vice versa. Just imagine for a moment the dilemma that must be offered to those who voted the initial finance law for 2017 and who are now on the benches of the new majority for some, opposition for others, forced some to vote in favour, others to vote against or abstain; Some had to criticize a text that they had supported, and others had to forget that they had criticized it under the previous legislature. We must all be aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the role we have: through our vote in this House, we commit our responsibility and in a way the credibility of the political class. For the sake of consistency, our group will vote against this text, but I would like to make it clear that it is not a vote against the unfortunate minister sitting on the bench of the Government – who would have voted against the original finance law if he had still been a Member of Parliament at the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u166	It's Minority Report! You don't know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u167	You would have voted against it since you were a member of the Republican group that had rejected the budget. Having voted against the initial finance law for 2017, we believe it is important to vote against this insinuating budget. Indeed, this is your paradox: you denounce the original finance law, but are obliged, like all ministers, to appeal to the majority to vote on the settlement law, which in fact does not have much consequences. It must be recognized that, in the face of a heavy legacy of insinuity, the current government has reduced spending by $5 billion to try to deal with undervaluations of some $8 billion. You then received a tile on your head: the cancellation of the 3% dividend tax, $10 billion to be repaid, of which $5.3 billion was charged to 2017 and the balance on 2018. So you invented a tax – to which most of the members of our group were opposed – to try to cover at least half of the sum, or 4.9 billion euros. So you're responsible for 10 billion fewer deficits than it would have been if you hadn't taken these two steps. Yet what is important is not to be happy to see the deficit fall below 3% of GDP, but to understand where this reduction comes from. However, all the opposition speakers, but also some of the majority, recalled that this decrease in public deficits from 3.4% in 2016 to 2.6% in 2017 is explained by an increase in compulsory levies of 0.7 percentage points – that is, for the most part. I had awarded your predecessor, Christian Eckert, the future gold medal of compulsory levies – he had not much appreciated the joke – but we are here: the Danes who were in the lead are now silver medals and the gold medal is ours. With compulsory levies accounting for 45.3% of GDP, up 0.7 percentage points from 2016, we have the European record. If only we had high quality public services! But as you yourself say, Minister, we still have a lot of progress to make in terms of their effectiveness. Moreover, the Court of Auditors considers that the difference of 0.3 percentage points of GDP between the initially forecast deficit of 2.9% and the realised deficit of 2.6% is mainly due to the cyclical component. Most economic specialists think that we are at the top and that we are starting to descend; The figures for the last two quarters seem to attest to this. So we will not have two years in a row the chance to benefit from these 4 or 5 billion tax gains in the state budget. A word now about spending. You don't have much to do with it, you suffer what your predecessors have unfortunately done. At constant scope, government spending has increased by almost 4 per cent, which is all the more untenable as part of this increase is linked to the increase in staff costs – more than 3.9 per cent, even though it is almost constant. You have tried to postpone a series of increases, minister, but the "Professional Paths, Careers and Remuneration" protocol is a bomb that you have been left with before you. The problem occurs as early as the 2017 settlement law, and will only grow in 2018 and 2019. A small word also about the debt problem. I would like to take up what I said earlier in response to our colleagues in France who have been unsuspecting: there is a limit to debt. Those who believe that we can go through unlimited debt completely ignore economic history. You can mention Japan, which is, I believe, 210% of its GDP, or Italy, 170%; But haven't you noticed that the two countries that have been most let go of the government deficit are no longer experiencing growth? I say this to the only representative of France present in the Chamber: in Japan, for the past ten years, growth has been zero; In Italy too, almost. There is no need to have done very extensive economic studies to understand why: from the moment that almost all your savings are used to finance a public sector operating deficit, how do you want the economy to grow? This is called the eviction effect in economics. So yes – as I say to the speakers in France who are inconvenient – there are limits to debt, and they are not at 3%, but at 1.2 or 1.3% of GDP, regardless of the approach adopted: by operating investments or by the level of the stabilizing deficit, i.e. that no longer increases debt. The goal, Minister, is not to reduce public deficits to 3%, but to 1, 1.2 or 1.3%. Of course, in the law of programming, we will be even below, almost at the total balance; But we are far from it today, especially since the assumptions underlying this forecast refer to sustained growth, while it is in deceleration. For you, the hardest part will not be 2017 – you have nothing to do with this budget, you have adjusted 5 billion revenue and 5 billion expenditure – but 2019 and above all 2020. This is the deadline for all of you, not only the political world but, more broadly, all those who wonder about the current government's ability to right the country. Last but not least, tax expenditures, which continue to blaze. We have all been saying this for years, and all governments have ensured that they will reduce them, and that they do not. Worse: our young colleague Lise Magnier pointed out in his speech, two more tax expenditures were added, one of which was 45,000 euros. It's for crying. While it is true that such a sum is nothing in relation to the budgetary masses, this additional pinch proves, on the other hand, that the reduction is still not under way. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] It will therefore not surprise you, Minister, that our group is voting against the text, in order to remind your predecessors that their management has been very bad and that they have left you with a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u168	To vote against? What irresponsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u169	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u170	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, this evening we are considering the draft regulation for 2017. If we vote on it, it is because we consider that the implementation of the appropriations was in accordance with the 2017 finance law that we had adopted. If, on the contrary, we do not vote on it, it is because we consider that this execution has betrayed the spirit of the provisions that we voted in the original Finance Act for 2017. A little suspense is not superfluous, ladies and gentlemen, especially at 23.30 a.m. To answer this question, I would like to raise three points. The first is that of sincerity. This word has been heard a lot since last summer and even before. It is in the name of this sincerity of the accounts that you decided last summer to make two decrees in advance and to cut budgets within the framework of the amending financial laws. Yet you had a precaution reserve of 13 billion, which gave you room for manoeuvre. You preferred to punctuate 5 euros a month to the 6.5 million French people who receive personalized housing assistance and cut off assisted jobs. With regard to the latter, I do not agree with you, Minister, since assisted jobs, including under Nicolas Sarkozy in the years 2007-2012, have always been voted in two phases each year. The year 2017 was therefore not specific in this regard. You have also preferred to invest in the equipment of rural areas. In total, out of the general budget, without repayments and discounts and without technical measures on the competition funds, you cancelled for €4.2 billion via the two pre-orders. But the sincerity, Mr.Minister, would have been to consider revenue as well. It is clear that last summer neither you nor anyone could predict that economic growth would rise by 2.2% over 2017, bringing additional revenues into the state funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u171	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u172	On the other hand, you could not ignore – as INSEE had indicated – that growth would be above 1.5%, which had been used as a conservative and conservative assumption, in the fall of 2016, to calibrate the initial 2017 finance bill. But this was never used, even though it would have prevented you from making the budget cuts you made last summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u173	The cup is full!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u174	Clearly, in terms of sincerity, you have misguided the summer observation to implement the policies you wanted to deploy. The second point concerns the macroeconomic vision message conveyed by the Government. I will not relaunch this evening, do not worry, ladies and gentlemen, about the debate on potential growth. I will note, however, that the Government has changed its level. This change has a concrete consequence: it alters the Government's assessment of the deficit. As this is still the sum of its structural and cyclical components, by modifying the potential growth, you have decided that almost all of the deficit relates to its structural component. Such an observation runs counter to the data that INSEE published yesterday: 650,000 jobs created since 2014; a fall in the unemployment rate, measured in the sense of the International Labour Office, since 2015; margins recovered for enterprises. If, as the bill makes sense to make it appear, the deficit was exclusively structural, or almost, such results would have been impossible. The third and final point, which surprised us a lot, was the cancellation of commitment and credit authorizations in your settlement bill. Even if it is possible for us to talk about them a little at length tonight, these cancellations are done in catini, since they have never been discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u175	We have tabled the amendment in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u176	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] You cancel €340 million of commitment authorisations on the Prison Service programme, some €30 million on the "National Gendarmerie" programme, some €25 million on the "Security" mission, €131.8 million on the "Supporting economic change and job development" programme and €84 million on the "Public secondary school education" programme. Minister, we are not in favour of these cancellations, as you had the perfect opportunity to postpone them to 2018. For all these reasons, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u177	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u178	It will be almost an hour of insubmission: we settle our accounts!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u179	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the draft regulation is a delicate exercise for this year 2017, since it is a question of examining how a budget, voted by the socialist majority in 2016, was executed in 2017 by the same socialist majority until May, and then by the majority The Republic on its way for the rest of the year. However, the least we can say is that the austerity policies at work successively under the quinquennats Sarkozy and Holland accelerated in the first year of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, with the reduction of the APL of 10 euros, the increase of the CSG for pensioners and the abolition of many assisted contracts. I'm going through with some of the best. Emmanuel Macron decided to drive Robin Hood's policy backwards by taking the money from those who need it the most to pour it into the pocket of those who need it the least. To this end, you keep playing the little background music, which we hear on many benches of the Assembly: debt, debt, debt! In the name of debt resorption, economic and fiscal logics at work not only produce social and territorial inequalities, but also economic recession. You said in your speech, Mr Minister, that we are not keeping the European treaties, regretting that the famous golden rule is not yet fully integrated into the current budgetary logic. I would just like to remind you that these European treaties, which impose the golden rule in particular, were submitted to the approval of the French people in 2005 and that they refused their logic. It would be good to respect first and foremost the words of the people, because that is democracy, and to follow a budgetary and economic logic that allows us to advance French society. So your goal – you recalled – is to respect the 3%: once again, debt, debt, debt! I have heard, including without microphones, words that have inherited me, according to which we could not do otherwise. That is true, but only if we do not first have a certain idea of the recipes that can be picked up. For the past year, you've had a lack of imagination in this area. You have managed to raise billions to reform the ISF or to give money to big companies, but when it comes to finding money to thaw the point of index, increase the SMIC or maintain and develop public services, suddenly there was no one. However, the aim is not to reduce the expenditure of a constant budget in terms of revenue: it must adjust to the needs. Debt is not bad in itself: it depends on what it serves. It can make it possible to develop the economy and get out of the recession we are experiencing at the moment. I would like to point out that Greece, after nine austerity plans, experienced a catastrophic recession that exacerbated inequalities. Your accounting logic has an immediate economic impact, which is not negligible. Indeed, forcing public budgets and maintaining a logic of austerity has the consequence of rolling out entire sectors, resulting in a reduction in hiring and services. The construction sector is now lagged by the decline in allocations to local authorities and regions, which is not without its impact on employment. When you laminate the voluntary sector, you provoke what is, perhaps, the greatest social plan we knew today in France. The order book of SMEs suffers when the budgets of the communities are very constrained, and I do not mention the question of the index point or that of the SMIC: their non-increase has a real economic impact. It was by attacking the previous government and denouncing the budget increases that you implemented the 2017 budget. Indeed, according to the general explanatory statement of the bill, "on the eve of the elections, the previous government [...] took a series of measures that made government spending particularly dynamic. So dismissing the blame on the previous government, you claim to seek to correct the shot, as you aggravate and amplify the logics, unfortunately already at work before. The 2017 budget was already particularly hard on local authorities, as transfers fell by $3 billion in 2017. The Government is constantly calling on communities to make greater efforts by making savings on their backs. After two quinquennats of austerity, these successive declines have disastrous consequences for community development projects, which nevertheless seek to reduce inequalities in terms of culture, education, solidarity or associative life. On the other hand, the budget for 2017 has been much more lenient with large companies. The CICE cost $15 billion in 2017, compared to $12.9 billion in 2016. How can we not remember this small pine tree of the MEDEF promising 1 million jobs?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u180	Yes! A million!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u181	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It must have been thrown into the public dump because we have not seen the colour of these jobs, while billions of public money have been cashed by these big companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u183	As for the carry-over of appropriations to 2018, it will be $1.8 billion: the Government proudly indicates that it is doing better than the previous three years. Of course, but this figure is higher than the 2013 2014 carry-over, and it will still be 1.8 billion less in the 2018 budget, which is already well amputated and very austere. In reading the 2017 budget, one thing is obvious: €5 billion in cancellations of appropriations, an unprecedented amount since the implementation of the Organic Law on Finance Laws in 2001. According to the Government, these cancellations would be subject to underbudgeting by the previous majority. However, in order to remedy this situation, the Government could have opened up new appropriations by having an amending finance law passed in the summer of 2017, which would have been more democratic than by decrees to cancel appropriations in important missions. Why didn't you pass an amending finance bill? For fear of debate? Maybe. However, Parliament did not discuss the reason for these cancellations of appropriations. The latter have not reduced tax gifts to businesses: they have limited the opportunities for decent living for the most precarious groups of people in our country. We have already mentioned the decline in the number of contracts assisted. You said you amortized the fall, minister, but the 2018 budget shows that the slope was very steep and that you assumed, and even amplified the trend. In fact, Minister, at the end of this afternoon's sitting, you delivered a rather extraordinary sentence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u184	[[Smile]] It happens to me a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u185	You spoke of "cooling measures, certainly unpopular."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u186	[[Smile]] Of course, we've been cooled!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u187	I have heard that, and I repeat it, because the Government must accept its words. That's what governs us! In your opinion, a courageous government would be a government capable of implementing unpopular measures,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u188	A government that does not practice demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u189	... measures which do not serve the interests of the greatest number but which would be courageous in view of a budgetary norm imposed by Brussels, the famous golden rule...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u190	Our country is still in debt at 96% of GDP!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u191	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] ... itself challenged at the same time as the treaties that imposed it, notably in 2005. The loop is closed: the Government extends and accelerates austerity measures, liberal measures imposed by previous governments, yet rejected on several occasions by the people. These measures have led us to the current budgetary chaos,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u192	What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u193	No, she's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u194	She's a thousand times right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u195	... in which nothing can be found to improve the living conditions of the greatest number of people. You are pursuing a purely accounting, terribly technocratic objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u196	You're liberals! Ultraliberals!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u197	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] You have only the courage to apply religiously what is imposed by European standards of gold rule and austerity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u198	I thought you were an internationalist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u199	The social cost of these measures is far higher than the savings achieved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u200	What about the fall in unemployment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u201	What is the fall in unemployment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u202	We continue to say to this rostrum that another logic is possible. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to finish in a few seconds with a quote from someone who is quite dear to me...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u203	Hugo Chavez!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u204	Excuse me, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u205	Go on, Mrs. Autain. You can close.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u206	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] It's quite amusing, that way you've got to send us back to Venezuela in almost every circumstance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u207	And you're sending us back to Brussels! It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u208	Better Brussels than Caracas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u209	Let's talk about the Atlanticist model you're advocating!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u210	Please, ladies and gentlemen, listen to Mrs Autain's quote: this will allow her to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u211	Minister, do you know that the cold war is over?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u212	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u213	We're gonna have to expand our imaginations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u214	Is that a quote from Maduro?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u215	Today, there is no choice between the US hypercapitalist model and the USSR, Cuba or I don't know which other country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u216	Tell Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u217	We have to get out of productivism and capitalist logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Autain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u219	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We must be able to invent a model of society and a budget that meets the needs of the inhabitants, which is based on the sharing of wealth and on democratic processes far removed from your current technocratic norms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u220	We didn't hear the quote you promised us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u221	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u222	[[Smile]] Minister, Comrade Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u223	Comrade Deputy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u224	...I enjoyed that word you used. That means you share interests with me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u225	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u226	Probably.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u227	[[Smile]] Football?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u228	We are addressing the review of the 2017 Budget and Account Approval Bill after a long budget sequence that has animated our parliamentary work in recent weeks. In addition to the original finance law and the amending finance law, the settlement law is used to balance the State's accounts for the previous year. In this case, we are looking at the proposed regulations for 2017: the opportunity is therefore given to review the major budgetary decisions made during this year and to plan for the current year and the following. The year 2017 was marked by important electoral deadlines that disrupted budget implementation. Very quickly, we had the opportunity to attend a three-stroke waltz, quite expected but nevertheless executed brilliantly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u229	[[Smile]] And without the feet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u230	First time: in May and June, a new executive and a new majority formed after the elections and asked the Court of Auditors for a report on the country's budgetary situation. Second, the Court of Auditors' report paints a necessarily alarmist picture of France's financial situation. Expenditure would be too high and insufficiently budgeted. Strong measures must therefore be taken. Third, the Government is opportunely legitimized to undermine the resources allocated to certain public policies – defence, the environment, equality between women and men, housing – without consultation, free from the legislative power. For example, more than EUR 4 billion in appropriations have been cancelled. For example, the Government has also decided to reduce the amount of personalized housing assistance by 5 euros, resulting in a deflagration that is still noticeable today, since the LPA will not be increased by inflation. Three-time Valse, therefore, who set the tone for this quinquennium. The 3% rule and the famous fulfilment of our European commitments will therefore take precedence over other emergencies, the real emergencies of health, the environment, territorial cohesion and the fight against inequalities. The deficit level for 2017 is therefore 2.6%. Today, you brand this number as a trophy – cocorico! –, but what are the positive consequences for our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u231	There's none!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u232	The reduction of the deficit and, ultimately, the budgetary balance are your political compass.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u233	That's right! And it's not very original.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u234	[[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, that is not entirely correct, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, you have a very unique conception of public deficits, rather symptomatic of the neoliberal evil that strikes our country – sometimes orthodox when it comes, I quote, to "put a crazy money" in social aid, which should be "rational" and "responsibility",...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u235	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u236	... sometimes lax when it was decided in the last budget to liquidate the solidarity tax on wealth, the ISF, which, however, raised EUR 5.1 billion in 2017, as indicated in the rapporteur-general's report. An equally lax approach to substantially reducing the taxation of capital through a one-time flat-rate levy of 30%. The cost of this measure, estimated at EUR 1.9 billion, is probably underestimated, as the economist Gabriel Zucman indicates, who estimates it at almost EUR 10 billion annually. A fiscal laxity also visible with the dislocation of the tax on financial transactions and the gradual reduction of corporate tax, without consideration. This may even lead you to put an end, as early as 2019, to the exit tax, a device with a virtuous aim since it deters the tax exile of rich taxpayers. The slate for the state could amount to more than 6 billion euros, excuse me for a little. And I am not talking about the cumulation, in 2019, of the CICE and the decrease in employer social contributions, which could amount to 40 billion euros, i.e. 1.8 points of GDP. All these elements demonstrate, ladies and gentlemen, that France has the capacity to have the financial resources to carry out ambitious public policies, far from the mythology maintained by the supporters of budgetary orthodoxy who repeat to the envier that our country would be at the bone. All these elements, in particular the multiplication of fierce tax gifts often granted without any consideration, are in fact dismantling your supposedly virtuous management of state finances. We are indeed very far from the point, considering your choice assumed to put our public finances at the service of the merchant sector and not at the service of the greatest number, symbol of your political DNA. The consequences are heavy: this policy leads the state to become increasingly in debt, and public debt is fuelling a financial sector already in hypertrophy. The debt burden, which amounts to EUR 41.7 billion, represents no less than the second state budget, little or no equal to the defence budget. It therefore seems to us deeply irresponsible to press the accelerator of this policy of tax gifts, which favours a tiny minority, to the detriment of the vast majority of our citizens. In reality, the very nature of this system of debt that takes our political life, neutralizes public choices and overlooks our debates should be questioned. Who owns our public debt today? No one is able to say it in detail. It's a fact. Moreover, no mention is made of this in the report published by the rapporteur-general. This point is now absent from our debates, while the financialization of our societies, symbolized by the influence of public debt on our decisions, weakens our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u237	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u238	To the fiscal injustice of your financial decisions, you will add social injustice, with the future implementation of the conclusions to be made by the Public Action Committee 2022, CAP 22. This committee of experts, whose diversity of composition leaves us dubious – it is very largely composed of leaders of large companies and senior officials – should probably advocate a drastic reduction of public spending, of the order of 30 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u239	You mean billions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u240	The delays at the highest level of the executive around the publication of this report clearly illustrate the strategy of the backstage shock. For this policy will cost the most fragile, who will have to endure a further deterioration of public services: hospitals under stress – that is the least we can say –, cash that closes, public investments postponed or cancelled, associative fabric weakened, territorial fractures dug. In the face of a political project that atomizes all forms of solidarity, removes the social fabric and advocates the only individual success as a society project, communist parliamentarians make themselves the voice of the real alternative. Another choice: the human and his environment first. The choice of a France of work, generous, open, solidarity, everywhere, throughout the territory. Our tax system must put these values at its core. This naturally involves questioning all the retrograde choices made in the 2018 budget. This would provide us with the first financial resources to pursue an ambitious economic policy that truly supports our SMEs and TPEs, our artisanal and industrial fabric. Let us also prepare for the future by investing in school and education. Let us accompany our territories, whatever they may be, so that they can cope with their respective difficulties. Finally, rather than stigmatizing them, recognize the rightful place of pensioners in our society. Similarly, our officials, these servants of the Republic, must have their work recognized to their due value, to the point of your projects. Once again, the Communist parliamentarians of the GDR Group will make credible, concrete proposals in the next budget to meet the real needs of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and NG groups]] As you understand, we will of course vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u241	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u242	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, for two weeks now, I have been trying all around me to explain to the people I meet – the citizens, the journalists and even the members of my family – what we are doing here this evening with the consideration of the bill. The task is not simple because, from the outset, the title of this text is not very salesman! But when I talk about "Evaluation Spring," I finally arouse a hint of curiosity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u243	[[Smile]] It's budding!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u244	Just for that, I would like to thank all those who made it possible – ministers, advisers, special rapporteurs and for their advice, collaborators and administrators. It is clear that the notion of spring, in politics, is now connoted with a somewhat revolutionary air. This is still a bit of what we have done by slightly derogating from the Organic Law on Finance Laws. But, above all, the word "evaluation" is clear to everyone: there is no need to be initiated to know what we are doing. We understand the meaning of this word and, in addition, it makes sense, because at the heart of our mission as MPs are not only the voting of the law and the control of the executive, but also the evaluation of public policies – in other words, once we have passed a law, our mission is to ensure that it is applied and that it produces the desired effects. As far as the budget is concerned, this exercise is more than essential: it is necessary. He also has this advantage that he says a lot – almost everything, in fact – of the political choices of those who build it and those who implement it. The 2017 budget tells us a lot about the lack of imagination of those who built it, because many budget lines have been extended without really wondering if the results were up to expectations. We even went so far as to renew the budget for the hiring bonus for the TPEs and SMEs, while it ended in the middle of the year. This budget also tells us everything that could not be said – to the French first, but also to our European partners. It is impossible to say, in fact, that public money had to be handed over to AREVA, that employment policies were based on precarious jobs financed by the State, that our public spending was going to be heavily affected by an increase in the wage bill of public officials or that a tax on companies created to conceal another debt, which was older, was legal. Impossible to tell the French without losing the little confidence they had left in the government of the time. It is impossible to tell the European Union, otherwise its copy will be returned. It is impossible to tell us, the majority, even today. So, of course, when we arrived in 2017, in the middle of a year whose budget was hiding so much, we realized that the task would be difficult, because we had made promises to the French and we had the intention to keep them. As a result, the Government has rolled back the sleeves. He narrowed the ranks and, of course, a few bolts. Everyone has heard about the personalized housing allowance, the aided contracts or a resigning general,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u245	Not to mention the increase in the CSG!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u246	... at the time chosen by the continuous news channels to tell us about it, but who announced that finally, in December, the army had recovered its credits? That we had reopened more than 50,000 assisted jobs?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u247	It's still a little less than before!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u248	And that by the fall of September 2017, CP's children in neighbourhoods were only twelve per class.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u249	Not everywhere! They are not twelve of us: they are thirty-two!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u250	If the implementation of the budget says something about the policy that is being pursued, it can be said that the money was burning the fingers of the former and that it took a lot of ice for the latter to return to an acceptable situation. If, at last, the 2017 budget says something, it is that we keep our commitments, that we have courage and that, when our majority promises to respect the word given by France, it does so. Many say that, more than courage, we were lucky – the chance of a world economy that, while it had been running away from us in recent years, would have finally decided to touch us with its grace! Being rather Cartesian in nature, I tend to think that nothing happens by chance and that the climate of trust necessarily comes from somewhere. And as I read the press, I cannot help but note that the course set by our President of the Republic, together with the action of a government that does what he says, seems to be responsible for this confidence and, therefore, for this growth. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the end, if I were to sum up the 2017 budget in a few simple words, I would say that after the usual trompe picture - the eye painted in the original finance law, we found, on our arrival, an expressionist canvas that we turned into a more classical work, but which, by its spring motif, contains the promise of a renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u251	That's a very undisruptive speech: you didn't even talk about efficiency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u252	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u253	Mr President, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to take a decision on the draft regulation for 2017, which came out of the last finance bill passed by the previous majority, to which I belonged. I wasn't the only one who voted for this finance bill. Let me take a small step backwards: although the new world regularly tends to deny the old, the 2017 finance law is a law that your majority knows well. There was an alternation a year ago and, to the left of government, succeeded the centre-right, but of the 287 deputies who voted for this budget on 22 November 2016, 10% are now in your ranks, of which three are in the Government, two are chairman of the committees, one is our assembly and another is the majority group. I would not dare recall that this budget was presented by a government with two ministers still in office and two more in the majority. Sad habit in politics! This 10% did not find anything to say when the Court of Auditors published a public finance audit in June 2017, which was extended by the Court of Auditors' report on the state budget last April in 2017, in which the term "sub-budgeting" is 42 times in 224 pages, and "insincertity" five times. This tone is also reflected in the Statement of Reasons for the 2017 Settlement Bill, in which the current government arrogates not only the return to growth, but also the upturn in public accounts. Thus, growth would reflect "the return of confidence of economic actors, which is reaching high levels following the implementation of the first measures" by this government: in short, without the election of a new president and a new majority, there would have been no growth or recovery of public accounts. So let me go back again: in 2012, the government deficit exceeded EUR 100 billion and reached 5% of GDP. A quinquennium later, this deficit fell below the €70 billion mark and represents 2.6% of GDP. The original finance law was down on 2.7 per cent: is this overestimation of 0.1 per cent worth an insinuity trial? The audit of the Court of Auditors was, in fact, an alibi that allowed the 2017 budget to be decoupled for ideological reasons. Let us be serious: the 2017 budget may have underestimated some expenditure, as it underestimated some revenue, but it allowed us to fall below the 3% deficit mark. These risks of underestimation found in any budget were also covered by a precautionary reserve which had never been so large and whose rate had been increased to 8 per cent. The audit of the Court of Auditors has enabled you to justify, as has already been repeatedly pointed out, a plan of savings which we consider unfair. As we denounced in our motion for a resolution discussed last night, this plan has weakened social and territorial cohesion. Was the priority indeed to lower the APL by 5 euros? The President of the Republic has since admitted that this was a mistake. Was it to reduce assisted jobs? In this connection, allow me to read two excerpts from the special report of the "Work and Employment" mission of the 2017 finance bill signed by Christophe Castaner: "The Special Rapporteur regrets the decrease in the envelope granted to employment initiative contracts – CUI-CIE – given the encouraging results in terms of sustainable integration into the employment of this form of contracts for the benefit of the market sector". These CUI-CIE have also been removed by your majority. According to Mr Castaner, "the studies of the direction of the animation of research, studies and statistics – DARES – show that the obligation to train on jobs of the future allows for better integration into sustainable employment, which validates the meaning of government action on assisted jobs, at a time when some policy makers indicate their desire to abolish them." This quote is so eloquent that I will not add any comment. In summary, the 2017 budget has been the subject of real instrumentalisation by the current government and its majority. However, the 2017 bill makes it clear that the previous majority has kept its commitments to job creation: in 2017, 9835 positions were created in national education, higher education and research, and 4350 in defence, interior and justice. It may also be noted that without these new posts, the duplication of classes in priority and rural areas would have been impossible. I will briefly mention the 2019 budget and wish to sound the alarm: the economic situation will be worse than expected, and I am not happy about it. The revenue levy towards the European Union will increase significantly, interest rates are expected to rise and the state budget will have to bear the double cost of the IEC and the decrease. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] In sum, given last fall's fiscal choices, it is not certain that the 3% deficit limit is being met.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u254	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u255	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u256	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour, this is the time for the regulation of the 2017 budget. While the half-time of 2018 is close, sports metaphors have a good back during the World Cup period: it is time not to count points but to balance the 2017 accounts. Some could make vocabulary shortcuts and say that it is a matter of settling our accounts: it would be too simple – wouldn't it, France unsubstantiated? Rather, it is a question of turning the page of insinuating and non-tenable budgets, without setting a clean table of the past – it is impossible. As legislators, we will see to it. The past must allow us to avoid the pitfalls left by our predecessors because the 2017 budget, like the previous ones, weighed on the financial situation of France as we found it a year ago, and also conditioned the construction of the 2018 budget. Therefore, the proposed Regulations remain particularly important this year. In terms of form, this is part of the monitoring and evaluation role of Members, a role that we collectively assume and that we must play fully. In substance, it is an opportunity for us to learn lessons and lessons from the past: as we soon study a new finance bill, let us try to be more efficient in the use of public resources, in budgetary results as well as in performance. Our goal is that the coming spring of the evaluation be more singing than this one, with the trajectory that we have collectively defined in programming law. The findings remain harsh with regard to the previous government's commitments: how many projects have been under-budgeted or not budgeted? I had the chance to devote myself this year to the transport budget, revealing the widths that could be granted. These include major infrastructure projects that are either undervalued or partially budgeted, such as the Seine-Nord-Europe Canal or Lyon-Turin; insufficient funding for rail maintenance; road networks, canals and lines which have been deleted only in the course of the year. It is no longer possible to promise anything without considering the resources at our disposal, the strategic issues of the projects, the priorities co-built with the regions and other communities, the impacts for all citizens. I would like to thank the ministers who submitted themselves to the questions at the various public policy evaluation committees this spring of the evaluation, by responding to budgets of which they were not fully in control – some have lent themselves to them with varying degrees of naturalness. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The spring of the future evaluation will certainly be more successful: this time we will be responsible and the executive will report to the National Assembly. So much so, as we did in 2018, quickly change the brace to avoid ending up in such impasses. It goes without saying that this will not prevent us from holding the Government to account during the year, at other seasons, and from continuing to evaluate all our decisions in order, if necessary, to confirm and validate the positive scope of our actions or the needs of redirection. Let us exercise our powers of control and evaluation independently; Let us together be vigilant and demanding towards the executive, as our fellow citizens legitimately expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u257	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u258	Mr President, Mr Macron, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, since his election as President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron has shown a fierce activism on the communication front, a well-oiled communication that irritates the antennae and the airwaves daily, to the great happiness of docile media. In this cathodic and virtual "new world", politics is no longer to act concretely but to present action everywhere and all the time, to the point of disgust. It no longer aims at change but simulates renewal with great blows of easy slogans, avalanches of tweets, beautiful images cleverly controlled, postures and often impostures. Macroist propaganda has constantly spread the idea of a "walking" France that has awakened after forty years of lethargy. With this government, we must make a clean table of the past: it no longer exists since May 7, 2017. France was worn out, aged, tired, engulfed in archaism, but the Saviour came to change everything. In 1981, Jack Lang declared that we had gone from shadow to light; Today, fan club president Richard Ferrand is more modest: "In this context, fortunately Emmanuel Macron is there. » So let's just talk about the context. Listening to you, everything is best in the best of the worlds. It would be sufficient to read the bill's explanatory memorandum to be persuaded: "the commitments made as early as May 2017 have been fulfilled", "a deficit that goes back below 3% of GDP", "a financial situation of the state assailed at the end of 2017". Indeed, your France is doing well, the one you dream of, the one you cherish, the one you spoiled this year with a "crazy money", the one that benefits from the replacement of the ISF by a tax on property wealth, that of the MEDEF and the shareholders who receive the price of their support. So yes, for this globalised, uprooted, ultraliberal France, you have worked. For the ambassadors of the start-up nation, who spend more time at airports than in our villages,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u259	But they don't travel, like you, in business class!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u260	...you have fulfilled your goals and campaign promises. You have contented the singers of savage liberalism, which erases humanity in favor of profitability.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u261	They're crocodile tears!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u262	You have, and this is your pride, done everything possible to meet the European Union's requirements for deficit reduction, going below the sacrosanct 3% mark. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Today, Emmanuel Macron and his ministers are self-congratulating on this good note, such as primary school students having received the congratulations of the German mistress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u263	You're not okay, are you?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u264	What irony, when we know that the European Union is participating in widening our public deficit by withdrawing €9 billion after reversion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u265	You've drawn from the car yourself! And Marine Le Pen, when will she return the 300,000 euros to the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u266	... this European Union which you continue to support, as it slowly agonizes before our eyes because of the democratic revolt of the peoples who no longer support the diktats of Berlin. Minister, your "new world" of facades desperately clings to the old because, without the European Union, you do not know how to do it. You've been used to receiving directives from Brussels for so long...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u267	And what are your colleagues in the European Parliament receiving?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u268	Three hundred thousand euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u269	...that you no longer know how to govern in the name of the people and for the people. This is one of the main lessons of this first year of the mandate. Another truth is that of the worrying economic environment in our country. Growth forecasts are divided by two, unemployment is not falling and poverty is increasing. But you will not change course and the same ineffective measures over the last 30 years will lead to the same setbacks and injustices. You explain to us that our financial situation requires continued efforts. For the past year, it is always the same people who are asked to tighten their belts: it is the young people you have taken 5 euros of APL per month and who will again be battled at the next start with the non-revalorisation of the housing aids; It is pensioners who see their living conditions deteriorate with the rise of the CSG by 20%; It is the patients who have undergone the increase of the hospital fee and the dementoring of certain medicines; It is the motorists who painfully cash the increase in the price of fuels, that of the technical inspection and the road persecutions announced...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u270	Just that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u271	...by limiting to 80 kilometres hour, associated with the multiplication of on-board radars. Minister, we will not approve the 2017 accounts because they are the result of an inept, unjust and dangerous policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u272	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u273	"We continue to spend more than our revenues. I don't like to reason as a percentage of GDP – 2.8, 3.2: we anesthetized our compatriots by talking like accountants. But the truth is that when our German neighbours collect 100 euros in taxes and spend 98, we collect 117 and spend 125. Who can think that this situation is sustainable? » "Ladies and gentlemen, under the worried eyes of the French, we are dancing on a volcano that is growing stronger and stronger. Some, however, continue to deny the evidence. "How many times can a man turn his head pretending he doesn't see? "These words are not of me, but of the Prime Minister, in his general policy speech before us a year ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u274	It's good to quote the great authors!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u275	This act of regulation demonstrates that we are not turning our heads and looking at reality in the face. Budget implementation for 2017, and more specifically the Account Settlement Bill, is a serious exercise for which we share responsibility with the previous government. At European level, 2017 was an exceptional year. Activity accelerated significantly in the euro area, with more than 2.5% growth, supported by both the dynamism of domestic demand and the rebound in world trade. This recovery in growth has reduced unemployment to 8.9 per cent of the population. The arrival of Emmanuel Macron helped to improve the business climate, the image of France, and led to an acceleration of growth. This reflects the return of confidence among economic actors, which has reached high levels following the implementation of the first measures of the Government: reform of the labour code, implementation of the recovery plan and structural reforms. However, not everything was pink in 2017. The audit of public finances carried out by the Court of Auditors a year ago, at the request of the Prime Minister, had highlighted difficulties in the implementation of the 2017 budget, due in particular to important sub-budgeting. The Government had to take exceptional measures on expenditure to improve the budgetary situation rapidly. A recovery plan of EUR 4 billion and, in the autumn, new measures were implemented to cover residual financing needs by redeployment. This has enabled France to fulfil its European commitments. Moreover, despite the various warnings of lawyers, tax lawyers and the stubbornness of our predecessors, the Constitutional Council's censure of the 3% dividend tax made it necessary to pass an amending finance law. A total of EUR 5 billion was voted for the repayment of this rebate. At the same time, new contributions were created, based on corporate tax for large companies. The Court of Auditors acknowledged in its last report of May 2018 that the fears expressed last summer have unfortunately been fully fulfilled. We all end up getting tired of these reports, which systematically alert us to the chronic deficit, the debt trap and the risk of losing control of our public finances. Forty-four uninterrupted years of irresponsible management ended up diluting this gruesome speech. France bears witness to the fact that it is meeting its European commitments with a public deficit of 2.6% of GDP, or EUR 59 billion. This is its lowest level since 2008. This has allowed us to get out of the excessive deficit procedure. However, we must not free ourselves from European rules. For thirty-five years, France has systematically pushed back the moment when it will address the reconquest of its budgetary sovereignty by reducing its debt. Since 1981, it has added taxes, taxes and levies to finance a lifestyle that has become out of reach. Debt rose from 12 per cent of GDP at the end of the first period of the Thirty Glorious to 60 per cent in 2000 and to 80 per cent in 2010 to reach 97 per cent today. At the end of 2017 it amounted to 2_218.4 billion euros, according to INSEE. The high level of the stock of debt, which must be refinanced regularly, combined with the budget deficit of the year, required the issuance of EUR 185 billion of debt in the medium term, thus exposing France in a context of a gradual rise in interest rates. According to the Court of Auditors, an increase of 1% in the rate curve would lead to an increase in the debt burden of EUR 2.1 billion in the first year and EUR 19.1 billion after 10 years. In terms of expenditure, they grew by EUR 9.1 billion between 2016 and 2017. They account for 56.5% of GDP in 2017, the highest rate in the world. Once again, we must remedy this. In addition to these points of vigilance for the current year, we must keep in mind the indicators for 2018: a decline in growth, stagnation of investment, a rise in the price of the euro, revival of inflation, a surge in oil prices, trade war with the United States: France remains vulnerable. We have taken steps to regain control of budgetary developments and ensure that taxpayers' money is used effectively. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We are on our way to recovery. This settlement law marks a break with previous governments. As the English writer Samuel Johnson said, "There are few things that are impossible to whom is diligent and competent... Great works spring not from strength but from perseverance. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u276	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u277	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, according to Victor Hugo, "Everything that increases freedom increases responsibility. If I dared to associate my word with his, I would add that the opposite is also true: anything that increases responsibility increases freedom. The 2017 regulation bill illustrates the sense of responsibility of the Government and our majority in the face of the commitments we have made to the French: the commitment to keep the word given to our European partners in 2017, by putting our deficit below the 3% mark; the commitment not to increase taxes in order to achieve this. The 2017 Budget Settlement Bill is in principle an exercise that we share with the previous majority. In reality, we have assumed them all. We have assumed the legacy of EUR 8 billion of unfunded expenditure, from under-budgeted missions. We have borne the cost – 10 billion euros – of the censorship of the dividend tax introduced by the previous majority. We took difficult decisions on assisted contracts or LPA because they were not funded and because there was an urgent need to reform their terms. We have assumed all this, because the fulfilment of our commitments strengthens our freedom to transform our country, and that is our project. Our project does not stop at managing the risks of a first fiscal year. Our ambition is reflected in a multi-year trajectory that has two clear objectives: to replace structural reforms with public expenditure and to focus on investment expenditure rather than on operating expenditure. This fiscal and fiscal strategy, which requires a major effort to control expenditure, will at the same time create an environment conducive to economic activity and reduce the government deficit in a sustainable manner. In line with the stability programme we are aiming for the target of 2.3% deficit in 2018 for a surplus of 0.3% in 2022. We aim to reduce public spending by three points of GDP and reduce public debt by five points. These efforts will make it possible to finance a significant reduction in compulsory levies, one point during the quinquennium, in favour of the long-term growth of our economy. The Government has made strong choices by implementing a reduction of more than €10 billion in taxation. This movement will be continued in 2019, notably through a new housing tax relief tranche, the transformation of the CICE into a permanent reduction in contributions, and the continuation of the decline in the corporate tax rate. This sequencing will allow the rapid deployment of measures that give concrete expression to the strategic choices of the Government: unlocking the full potential of the French economy; make the growth model of tomorrow emerge; Reshaping our social model to build a society of mobility and justice and restore the balance of our public finances. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This trajectory, we'll keep it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u278	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u279	I now call the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u280	I have before me two amendments, Nos 10 and 3, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u281	This amendment seeks to change the level of the structural balance – which would not change the total balance, consisting of the structural balance and the cyclical balance. In view of the change in potential growth you have undertaken, the level of structural balance set out in the bill does not seem to us to be in line with the latest indicators of INSEE, whether they are economic recovery, job creation or the consolidation of business margins.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u282	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u283	In the context of the amending finance bill, minister, you had, fearing that you would not meet the 3% government deficit limit and not escape the excessive deficit procedure, decided to spread over 2017 and 2018 the repayment of the $10 billion collected from the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u284	It's an artifice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u285	However, given the surplus of tax revenues but also the forecast of much lower growth in 2018, it seems to us that the entire repayment should be charged to 2017 in order not to unnecessarily aggravate the following year's public deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u286	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u287	With regard to the first of these two amendments, which has not been discussed by the committee, we have already had this debate during the consideration of the draft law on the programming of public finances. The assumption on which the calculation of the structural balance is based has been considered realistic by the High Council for Public Finance, and I believe that we are going to stay there. With regard to the amendment by Mrs Magnier and Mr de Courson, I do not see why we would change the refund of this tax, which was found to be in conformity with both INSEE and Eurostat.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u288	Because it's not the INSEE who makes the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u289	The opinion is therefore unfavourable on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u290	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u291	As far as Mrs Rabault's amendment is concerned, my opinion is the same as that of the rapporteur-general, which will not surprise anyone. With regard to the amendment tabled by Mrs Magnier, it is rather bad to see Mr de Courson, after having made a mistake in his forecasts, since he told us what the case of Areva and that of the tax of 3% would be counted differently, to seek to force reality to his statements and to rejudge what was judged by the national and European accountant. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As the rapporteur-general pointed out, the Government's accounts were fully approved by the national and European statistician.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u292	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u293	We shouldn't have a false trial against Charles de Courson. Its amendment does not call into question what has been judged or the negotiation with Eurostat. Through this amendment, Mr de Courson simply proposes that, given the elasticity of revenue and the growth that the 2017 budget has benefited from, repay companies the 10 billion wrongly received under the previous mandate over a single fiscal year rather than staggering it over two years, the outlook for 2018 might be different. There is some logic and consistency here, and it is not at all for Charles de Courson to propose a different interpretation from that of the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u294	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u295	Surprisingly, the amount of the net discount premiums, which I would like to point out are used to reduce the amount to be refinanced on debt, appears in the form of a round figure – EUR 10 billion – in the draft regulation. This is the first time that this amount appears in the form of a round figure in a settlement law. With this amendment, we are asking for a report detailing the amount of these premiums – but if the minister could answer us immediately, that would be even better and I would withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u297	The elements of the response are contained in documents annexed to the draft regulations such as the annual performance report on the "State Financial Commitments" mission or the trade account "Government Debt and Cash Management", not to mention the additional information provided by the Court of Auditors and the Special Rapporteurs. So I do not really see the value of an additional report. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u298	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u299	As the rapporteur-general has pointed out, Parliament is already informed by the Government through various documents annexed to the draft regulation. In addition, the Court of Auditors shall update these elements each year. In 2017, the State committed seventy-three times premiums for approximately EUR 12.1 billion and twenty times haircuts for EUR 1.6 billion, representing a net discount of EUR 10.5 billion. The difference with the amount of $10 billion shown in the State financing table on the "Other cash resources" line is mainly due to indexing supplements received at issue and government premiums paid on early redemptions of securities. It should be recalled that this amount of 10.5 billion bonuses is in sharp decline compared to 2015 and 2016 where it exceeded 20 billion. This decrease is the result of changes in interest rates. The amount of net discount premiums to the issue should therefore continue to be reduced, particularly in the medium term, in the context of a gradual exit from the European Central Bank's accommodative monetary policy and the expected increase in interest rates. I recall that the average interest rate on issues was 0.65% in 2017, compared to 0.37 in 2016...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u300	It's all right again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u301	... and that Italy was borrowing at negative rates in April – today interest rates are approaching 3%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u302	Yes, but they're fascists! You have to pay attention to the fascists!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u303	This can therefore go extremely fast.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u304	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u305	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u306	I have before me six amendments, Nos 5, 6, 8, 7, 9 and 12, which can be presented together. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u307	Article 4 of the draft Regulation shows a cancellation of unconsumed and undeferred commitment authorisations of EUR 340 million on the Prison Service programme of the Justice Mission. We would have wished to cancel those cancellations. If article 40 of the Constitution did not object, the Constitutional Council's jurisprudence prohibited Parliament from cancelling the Government's cancellations. That is why this amendment calls for a report since only this wording was possible. There are 340 million cancellations of commitment authorizations – EA – on the "Correctional Service" programme in the justice budget. Why were they not postponed to 2018 or beyond? Why did you prefer to cancel them? Amendments Nos 6, 8, 7, 9 and 12 are in the same vein with 30.5 million cancellations on the "National Gendarmerie" programme of the "Safety" mission, 131 million on the "Supporting economic change and employment development" programme, 84 million euros on the "Public secondary school education" programme of the "School education" mission. These are all important missions. Why so many cancellations in this settlement law – commitment authorizations for certain missions, and credits for others – when this was not the case in other years?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u309	With regard to all of these amendments, honourable Member, you already have a certain amount of information in the bill, in particular on the levels of consumption and under-consumption of explicit credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u310	We agree, but there could have been postponements!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u311	I understand that the request for reports was just a pretext for explanations, but some of them are included in the schedules to the bill. Your amendment No. 5 concerns the authorizations for recruitment consumed on the "Correctional Service" programme of the "Justice" mission. In 2017 they amounted to €4247 million, an increase of €1.2 billion compared to 2016 execution. This significant increase illustrates the allocation of appropriations to the operations carried out by the public agency for the real estate of justice for the financing of the projects of prison centres in Troyes, Bordeaux and Lille. There is no question of a reduction in commitment authorizations, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u312	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u313	Yes, that's what it's all about!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u314	In Amendment No 6, you point out that the bill cancels 30.5 million unconsumed and non-delivered appropriations for commitment authorities on the "National Gendarmerie" programme. However, expenditure on this programme amounted to €8.8 billion in commitment authorisations in 2017. The cancellation of credits you are contesting is therefore almost episilonesque in relation to these amounts. Expenditure is also increasing by €354 million in EA compared to 2016. Finally, they are expected to increase by more than EUR 100 million in 2018, taking into account the original finance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u315	You can't merge T2 and T3!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u316	In Amendment No 8, you state that the bill cancels 25 million unconsumed and non-deferred credits from the "National Gendarmerie" programme. However, the expenditure on this programme in 2017 amounted to EUR 8.7 billion in payment appropriations – the cancellation of appropriations is therefore still very epsilonesque.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u317	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u318	Expenditure increases by EUR 346 million in payment appropriations compared to 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u319	Epsilon! Epsilon! Epsilon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u320	Not you, not that, Mr. Rapporteur General! What a mix!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u321	From the following appropriations: the commitment authorisations not consumed and not carried over to the programme "Accompaniment of economic change and development of employment" amount to EUR 132 million in commitment authorisations. These amounts must be reported at the level of commitment authorisations consumed in 2017, which amounts to €7.5 billion. This represents a cancellation level of 1.8% in EA compared to the amounts of credits consumed. In addition, the level of consumption increases by €370 million in EA between 2016 and 2017. Amendment No 9 aims at the cancellation of non-consumption and non-delayed credits of EUR 84 million on the programme "Public secondary school education". Payment appropriations consumed amount to EUR 32 billion. We are therefore dealing with an under-consumption representing 0.26% of the program's payment appropriations. Each subject is important, I agree... but this level of under-consumption does not seem particularly decisive to me. In addition, payment appropriations increased by EUR 970 million between 2016 and 2017 on this programme. They are expected to grow by another EUR 300 million in 2018, which I believe is an important effort. Amendment No 12 raises the question of an additional appropriation of 204 million in EA and CP for the programme "Repayments and local tax relief". The budget documents indicate that the forecast/execution variance is due to the increase in the free property tax rebates due to the dynamism of real estate transactions, a volume that land advertising services are unable to cope with. In the settlement law for 2016, an additional appropriation of EUR 452 million was foreseen for the same programme. These late appropriations are therefore recurrent for this programme. The Minister may have additional explanations to provide. Opinions unfavourable to all of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u323	I agree with the rapporteur-general, but, at the request of Mrs Rabault, I will clarify a number of points. I find that the absence of postponements is rather a good practice. I understand your question about cancellations, Madam President, but if we had carried out postponements, you would have blamed us. Instead, the Government wanted to avoid them in order to "sync" the budget, as we had the opportunity to say. With regard to Amendment No 5 concerning justice and, in particular, the prison administration, you mentioned a large amount – 340 million – not postponed. It is in agreement with the programme managers, the Minister of Justice, the director of the prison administration himself and the head of the prison real estate programme that we cancelled these appropriations since those of the operations carried out by the public agency for the real estate of the justice, whose operational phase was planned for 2018, are included in the budget. Any postponement is therefore unnecessary. As a result, there is no mismanagement or cancellation of $340 million under the Prison Service programme. With regard to Amendment No 6 and the EUR 30.5 million of the "National Gendarmerie" programme of the Security Mission, the appropriations cancelled correspond to 25 million of the balance of the payroll appropriations and to 5 million of the commitment authorisations resulting from the withdrawal of previous operations. As is customary in Title II, it is not possible to carry over appropriations. With regard to Amendment No 7, the EUR 131.8 million on the programme "Accompaniment of economic change and development of employment" of the "Work and employment" mission correspond to withdrawals of commitments made in the years prior to 2017 – that is, under your management, if I may, Mrs Rabault, rapporteur-general. This argument is sufficient to justify the rejection of this amendment. Amendment No 8 – EUR 25.5 million on the "National Gendarmerie" programme of the Security Mission – is still aimed at cancelling payroll credits. Deferral is not possible on Title II. Unfavorable opinion. Amendment No 9 refers to the 84 million pay bill credits on the "Public secondary school education" programme of the "School education" mission, which cannot be carried over again. Amendment No 12 seeks to request a report on the local tax rebates and rebates programme of the Reimbursements and Discounts mission. The rapporteur-general referred to the difficulties linked in particular to the land tax and to the dynamism of real estate transactions. The information you request is at your disposal in the settlement law, in particular in the annexes. Under my authority, the Directorate-General for Public Finance is thinking about a more refined work, as we said at the meeting of the evaluation committee: we owe answers to Mrs Pires Beaune – I am not sure she received them – as well as to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and to the rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u324	I got them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u325	It's perfect. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, we are working on questions about land advertising and local tax collection, but, as you know, this is another story. Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u326	Thank you for these detailed answers. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u327	I thank the minister. I withdraw these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u328	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1, 2 and 4, introducing an additional article after Article 6, which may be presented in a consolidated format. Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u329	Amendment No 1 is intended to prepare the constitutional reform, in particular the organic law that we will be considering this autumn. We propose an experiment to allow the High Council for Public Finance to decide on the expenses of the forthcoming finance bill since to date it only decides on revenues. Of course, it would not be a matter of judging the political expediency of an expenditure, but of knowing whether, in the original finance law, the budgetary allocations correspond to the amount necessary to achieve the objectives of the public services concerned. This amendment therefore proposes an experiment for the next finance bill. If it is conclusive, we could transcribe it into the organic law. Amendments Nos. 2 and 4 simply seek to ensure that the opinion of the Council of State on advance decrees and finance bills is communicated to the committees of the National Assembly and the Senate responsible for finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u331	The committee gave an unfavourable opinion on these amendments. Opinion against Amendment No 1 because the tasks of the High Council for Public Finance are defined by the Organic Law of 17 December 2012 – we have already talked about this in committee. It gives an opinion on macroeconomic forecasts and on the consistency of the structural balance with regard to potential growth assumptions and production differences. In addition, the adequacy of resources to the missions is either a political assessment or an evaluation and oversight mission, but the High Council for Public Finance must retain its role to inform Parliament on the credibility of the assumptions used in the development of the PLF. On the other hand, it is not at all up to its missions to make political assessments of the level of appropriations or to carry out monitoring or evaluation missions. These tasks are the responsibility of the Court of Auditors – I understand that one can be tempted by the aggregation of the two structures since their President is the same, but their tasks are quite different. Mr de Courson's amendment No 2, which was also rejected by the committee, is clearly of great interest to the committee because it has been tabled almost systematically in recent years. He is therefore not frankly convinced by the answers given!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u332	He's constant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u333	We are all very aware of that! Article 13 of the LOLF provides that in the event of an emergency, advance decrees taken on the advice of the Council of State and after the advice of the National Assembly and Senate Finance Committees may provide additional appropriations without affecting the budgetary balance defined by the last Finance Act. The Finance Committees give an opinion on the draft decree in advance before the Council of State does the same and the Government takes the decree. This is a particular procedure in which the Council of State gives an opinion after another institution – in this case, the finance committees of each assembly. It shall examine these opinions and shall decide in its turn. You wish to communicate this opinion of the Council of State for the information of the Finance Committees, but as it comes after ours, I confess that I do not at all understand the logic regularly developed by Charles de Courson in this regard. On the merits, the constitutional value of the separation of powers has been recognized by several decisions. Accordingly, the Constitutional Council considered that the legislator could not impose on the Government prior notice of the regulatory acts it takes. Again, I am obliged to give an unfavorable opinion. The last amendment, of which Mr de Courson himself announced that it was an appeal amendment – if I remember correctly, he withdrew it in committee – aims to increase the information transmitted to Parliament through the transmission of a Council of State opinion on finance bills, but, as you yourself say in the summary statement, it seems to me good practice "to seize the opportunity of constitutional and organic bills" to discuss the subject in so far as it will have to be linked with the principle of separation of powers. This amendment therefore has no place in this text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u334	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u335	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u336	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-20-O1282.u337	Next sitting, today, at 9:30 a.m.: Discussion of the proposal for a law on the power to adapt the maximum speeds authorized by the authorities having the power of traffic police; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to establish a committee of inquiry on the fight against groups advocating violence; Further to the discussion of the bill adopted by the Senate on the reception of Travellers and the fight against illegal facilities; Discussion of the proposal for a law to strengthen consumer rights in the area of telephoning; Discussion of the proposal for a law defending the right to property and creating an offence of occupation without the right or title of a building. The meeting is adjourned.
