ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, following the accelerated procedure, of the draft law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence (No. 778, 938).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u2	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u3	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice, the Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men, the Chairperson and the Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, we had put words and the public authorities, the Government had to take action. However, when we read and reread the bill that is before us in one direction and then in the other, when we read it, that we are sure that we have read it well and read it all, we might think that nothing has finally happened, as if the wave # MeToo had not broken out, as if all these waves of shocking and revolting testimony had not produced any governmental shock, which we might have hoped to find at least there, on a subject that could have brought us together. Instead of a great law, a real law, a framework law against gender-based and sexual violence, we are here, in order to combat this violence, in the face of four meagre articles, which at best extend some rights and sanctions, and at worst lead to a lowering of the legal characterization of certain violence against women and, in particular, with article 2, an assumed correction of rape committed against minors of 15 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u4	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u5	This is the result, this is the answer that your government gives to the flood that we have experienced, to these sufferings, to the angers revealed to the world and brought to light, which only asked to be accompanied by the state. For my part, I confess, I had taken to dream that, in the time of a law, on such a subject, your accounting standards would not prevail,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u6	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u7	...that, carried by the movement of society, the political audacity would win you to concretely accompany the victims and to tear apart – at last – the male domination. It was true that it would have required a global vision, political will and means. None of this is found in this document, which is, we must agree, familic. I said it and I say it again: the mountain has given birth to a little, a very small mouse, because you do not answer at the heart of the challenge and because this law does not embrace the whole problem. The mountain was discovered. It was before our eyes, since the whole society was alerted and sounded by a wave of revelations. We are now aware that violence against women is commonplace, daily, terribly destructive and so largely unpunished, and that it represents the ultimate point of male domination in all areas, in a society where gender equality is only a mirage and where sexuality and desire are enclosed in hetero-sex norms. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In the 20th century, women's movements have torn equality out of the law. In the twenty-first century, we must ensure that this equality, legal, becomes real, that is, it is practiced in life. Of course, sanctions, definitions and regulations must always be improved here or there. But to move the mountains, it is essential above all to mobilize new resources and to ensure overall coherence of public action. None of this is in your bill. The reality is that less than 9 per cent of women who are victims of rape file complaints, 70 per cent of these complaints are dismissed and only 1 per cent of the rapes result in a conviction. Meanwhile, a woman dies every three days under the blows of her abusive husband or spouse. Rape is committed every quarter of an hour. One in three women has already been harassed or assaulted in their workplace, and sexism flourishes, as we now know, on social networks. We measure better – but still insufficiently – the consequences of this violence. They are deep, heavy, often dramatic because self-esteem is crumbled, because fear settles and crashes, because sexual violence usually leads to disgust of the body and because somatizations produce their harms: it is often the body that prints pains and incorporates traumas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u8	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u9	I will not draw up a list here at the Prévert, but I want to testify and recall how much this violence destroys. Trauma is obviously not of the same nature depending on the gravity of the incident or the victims, but we know that sexual and gender-based violence takes women on the path to death. There is a fundamental reason for this, and I would like each of us to measure it: by these acts, by this violence, women are denied as subjects, they are treated as objects. I often think of these words of Virginie Despentes in King Kong Theory, which I think they must resonate for so many victims: "From the fear of death, I remember precisely. This white sensation, an eternity, is no longer anything, already nothing. It's closer to a war trauma than a rape trauma, as I read in the books. It is the possibility of death, the proximity of death, submission to the dehumanized hatred of others, which makes this night indelible. For me, rape, above all, has this peculiarity: it is obsessive, I return to it all the time. For 20 years, every time I think I'm done with this, I'm coming back. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] Yes, this relationship to death is persistently obsessed because the individual, the human person is totally denied in this act of violence whose sexuality is only the place, the pretext of power, of possession – and therefore, for women, of dispossession.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u11	One of the victims of the rapes in Fontenay-sous-Bois meeting – a case you may remember – expressed it in one sentence: "I died in a tower, a little after each rape. Like others, this young woman had been repeatedly raped by several men who were acting in turn in a building room. The trial was publicized in 2012, mainly because four of the accused – accused of rape – were acquitted. Aurélie, one of the victims, refused to go to the trial on appeal because, she said, "it is infernal, we are more limited the accused than the victims". For this is the trauma that so often follows the trauma of sexual violence: not to be believed, to lack tangible, material elements and to hear justice express a dismissal. In the absence of such evidence, evidence, and accursed evidence so difficult to provide in the case of gender-based and sexual violence, the suspicion of the victims is added. These are the famous "She looked for it well", "How was she dressed? – we know the song – and in another register: « There is no man dead », « It is only a domestic hole ». For domestic violence, proving hell is sometimes the top of the problem. In We are the birds of the storm that is coming, the writer Lola Lafon tells us what it sadly can give in front of a judge: "He [his former companion, the one who raped her] will admit it, on the night of September 14, I "did not look well" he said in front of his lawyer embarrassed by the confession. You clearly heard him say no to the judge. He looks at her lawyer in a bias, she pulls herself out and opens her mouth to talk, but he beats her. I didn't get it well, she didn't say it at least not very loud. Maybe she said no. But not no /no /no. So, all together, they start counting the number of my "no", evaluate the scope of the voice, the clarity of the request of these non(s), this September night. » As a result, a dismissal will be handed down and the victim will subsequently be summoned before the judges for defamation. To fight, to defend oneself is almost impossible mission when the phenomenon of grip and sideration operates. Unlike clichés, sexual assaults – one must have it in mind – are in the overwhelming majority of cases committed by a person known to the victim. The in-depth internalisation of social roles, passive for women, active for men, objects for one, subjects for the other, has its lasting effect. In Frapper is not loving, Natacha Henry decrypts it very well in the case of domestic violence: "It is a perpetual movement," she writes. It's a cycle that goes on and on: I'm pissed off, I'm pissed off, I'm sorry, I'm nice. I'm pissed off, I'm smashing you, I'm sorry, I'm nice. I'm pissed off... This system draws its forces from a supplied arsenal: control, denigration, blackmail, deprivation, threats. His name: the grip, because he grabs the victim in his nets and she will have to do well before she gets away with it. » What Natacha Henry explains to us is the alternation of the Prince Charming and the executioner, who crushes any capacity of resistance, for women victims of domestic violence. A victim of the famous photographer Hamilton, Flavie Flament also recounts these mechanisms in the case of rape on a minor. The famous presenter has long killed herself, repelling her memories that were, according to her terms, "double-folded in itself", under traumatic amnesia. At the time of the facts, she was thirteen years old. She says, "A Polaroid, a rape. The psychological grip, which muzzles the child's word, was working. Before, we had tons of novels and black series peddling photos of rape, but pioneer women recently cleared the ground for another story, seen from the victim, echoing the reality of this violence. When famous women speak – you really need to understand it – it is an encouragement for everyone to speak. I have in mind a World survey of women harassed and assaulted by their boss, this chief who had introduced spanking for the cashiers of his supermarket in order to sit and satisfy his desire for domination. When actress Léa Seydoux tells how she had to defend herself when Harvey Weinstein threw herself at her, sexually assaulted workers and employees, harassed company executives, teenage girls raped by their father or cousin, in short, anonymous women allow themselves to speak. A virtuous circle begins, breaking the deadly weapon of the attackers: silence. We, legislators, are not here to send a signal, even if accompanied by understanding words is important. Women victims, we will not be satisfied with a "I understood you" pure communication.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u13	Political power is responsible for responding to needs and events. That is why I plead in this motion for reference for a completely different law, for a real law with dated and quantified objectives, which attacks the order of the sexes and which offers concrete answers to the victims. Only a framework law, to take over from the 2007 proposal of the National Collectif pour les droits des femmes, or an integral law, to borrow the term used in other countries, would have made it possible to affirm a desire for change in order to meet the needs expressed. It would have required a law with comprehensive political action against male domination, for gender equality, for the liberation of women and for desire, a law including financial and human resources, and not a text simply aimed at changing the penal code and regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, here is what literally strikes me: I do not understand how France, after the international movement # MeToo and its French version, can decently present us with a text so far below what Spain, for example, has been able to vote in 2004. Remember, under Zapatero, almost fifteen years ago, a comprehensive law with financial resources had been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u14	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u15	The result is still being measured today. Spain has a stronger legislative arsenal than ours and has the means to combat the much higher levels of violence, even after much more severe austerity cures than our country has experienced. Spain now spends €0.54 per capita to combat this violence, compared with €0.33 in France, or 60% more. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] At the same time, when we see that the budget for women's rights in France is not a ministry – which we regret – but a state secretariat, and represents 0.0066 per cent of the nation's budget, we are not quite in a position to give lessons of feminism. Let us not therefore say that the fight against violence against women is a major national cause, a priority objective of the quinquennium, an issue of civilization. The great flights, however fair they may be, limit themselves to indecency and constitute a form of instrumentalisation when the means put in front are at this point derisory. Did not the President of the Republic announce, and did you not remind in committee last Wednesday, Madam Secretary of State, that your ambition amounts to an additional €5 million – a drop of water – including $4 million for an awareness campaign and $1 million for a call for projects? That is to say, the great national cause of your government, which has been able to find billions for the hyper-rich, is elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u16	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u17	Another small promise: ten pilot care centres for victims. But we wonder how they're going to be born, given the drastic budget cuts you're imposing on hospitals, which are on the brink of asphyxiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u18	That's very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u19	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] How can France so miss the opportunity to act against violence against women? Do you know that in 2017, Tunisia passed an integral law in this area? And we are debating a miserable bill. I'm telling you honestly, it's grieving. We criticize, but we are also making proposals, even though you often pretend not to hear us. A framework law would make it possible to act on education, the support of victims, the training of police and justice personnel, and gender-based representations in our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u20	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u21	From an early age, sexist stereotypes must be combated, because there is the internalization of roles, both male and female. Education, which we transmit to children, contributes to the perpetuation of deeply unequal social relations between genders and sexuality: we know this at least since Simone de Beauvoir's Second Sex. It is, for example, this children's dictionary that illustrates its definition of the word "bath": "The President takes a crowd bath. Jeanne takes a sunbathing". It is also this toy section for Christmas of a department store where one sees written, on a display in blue tones: "I am a hero" and, on the next ray, all pink: "I am a princess". [[Exclaims]] L'Express is publishing this week an upbuilding survey on the relationship between girls and boys in school. School-based sexuality education has been provided for by law since 2001, but is not yet fully implemented. "We are far from it," said the Defender of Rights, Jacques Toubon. Not only is this system still not in place everywhere, but in 64 per cent of cases sexual education is disconnected from the issue of equality between men and women. That is why we propose to integrate it into the common foundation of the knowledge transmitted to the school – in all schools. Of course, children live in our world, with its sexist representations. Listen to the answering machine of a hotel-restaurant in Paris: "For reception, type 1, to reserve a table, type 2 and, for waitresses, type, but not too loud. Yes, we are! Making a difference between sexism and humour, a dispute and domestic violence, dredge and harassment, is clearly an always difficult task in our society so deeply marked by gender stereotypes. That is why we need to focus on advertising and media content. There is a need to stop the accumulation and trivialization of sexist images in public space. A recent APF report – which you may have read, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State – published at Sylvie Pierre-Brossolette's initiative – is a measure of the problem. It's overwhelming. But the real powers of institutional or associative structures that could ensure a form of active ethics in this field are not found. In this bill, there is literally nothing that can do better. We have therefore tabled amendments aimed at taking concrete action in this area, but they involve confronting the power of GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – and advertisers. Another major project, absent from this bill, concerns the personnel, including police and justice, whom women victims encounter in their journeys. There is no question here of accusing the police, the magistrates, the therapists, the hospital staff, who are simply members of a society, ours, petry sexism and unarmed in the face of the mechanisms of violence against women. Rather, it involves providing them with tools, systematizing their training and raising awareness to ensure fair, decent and appropriate support for victims. The F Group and the Tumblr "Pay Your Police" gathered 500 testimonies in the police stations. What emerges is icy, and confirms what we already knew through the expertise of various associations and stakeholders. It involves questioning the facts, making victims guilty and ridiculing them, and even discouraging them from filing a complaint. For example, there is this woman to whom it is said, when she calls the police station: "We do not move for broken brooms. "I was told that I wanted to make myself interesting and I was asked the color of the couch on which my attack took place, because, "if it is true, you had time to look at the decor of the room." »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u22	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u23	I am passing by, but I am enraged, because we wonder how many testimonies it will take to finally measure the denial faced by the victims in the police stations and elsewhere. Do you really believe that a simple Internet platform, obviously less expensive than training, will make it possible to raise awareness of all these personnel?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u24	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u25	In 60 per cent of cases, when a woman goes to the police station, complaints are refused or strongly discouraged by police officers, and proceedings are poorly experienced by 80 per cent of victims. It is therefore the double penalty: the trauma of sexual violence is added to that inflicted by institutions that too commonly question the words of the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u26	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u27	Our institutions are, from this point of view, a reflection of a sexism and a lack of awareness of such violence, even though the # MeToo movement has allowed a form of leap forward – complaints of rape and sexual assault have increased by 11% in 2017 compared to 2016, which is considerable. The difficulty, or even the inability to hear, is found everywhere. I will take only one example, which I think is quite striking, that of Évelyne, raped by her father, who decides to consult a psychoanalyst. She tells of the rape she suffered and the shrink concludes the session as follows: "Now you have to understand why you fantasize that your father raped you. Évelyne did not cross the threshold of the police station, but that of the psychiatric hospital after an attempted suicide. I want to pay tribute here, in contrast, to the personnel and people, whatever they may be, who have been able to find the words and reach out. The words of the people to whom the victims confide, especially the first of them, are decisive. That is why the fight against gender-based and sexual violence must involve and irrigate a broad network, not be reduced to a regulatory issue. In this network, the associative fabric is decisive. However, it is subject to drastic budget cuts everywhere. I am of course thinking of feminist associations and the fight against violence against women, which do not see the support sounding and stumbling from the state developing at the time of # MeToo, so much so. The European Association against Violence against Women at Work – AVFT – did not experience a decline in subsidies, but did not benefit from an increase in subsidies at the time when calls exploded – as a result of a healthy movement in society – which prevented it from continuing to provide its hotline. But I am also thinking of so many local associations, neighbourhoods, cities that foster solidarity between women and are places where speech emerges and can be accompanied. But this community fabric is now in danger because of your choice of austerity for public accounts. Similarly, women who are victims of domestic violence face the lack of emergency accommodation. In Seine-Saint-Denis, I have just learned, the state has announced, for 2018, a cut of 9% of the budget reserved for emergency accommodation. However, we do not stop – in any case, this is my case – receiving women who need housing, who sometimes beg us to help them, because they are threatened very concretely by their ex-spouse, and to whom we are not always able to provide an answer. Nor does this bill provide them with any response. Naturally, prevention must be accompanied by resolute action for equality at work. In this regard, your Government has made new announcements. While some go in the right direction – transparency and penalty – these efforts are modest and massively overshadowed by the rest of your policy. Indeed, women's autonomy cannot be achieved if they are burdened with imposed part-time work, chained CSDs, and ever more precarious and flexible jobs. Moreover, the abolition of CHSCT – health, safety and working conditions committees – in the labour law still restricts the possibility for women to testify, to find a hearing in their company. To promote professional equality, it would also be necessary to invest in a public early childhood service, for everyone, and to extend paternity leave. But that certainly doesn't fit into your damn golden rule. Another decisive step is completely absent from your bill: how can we better deal with rapists when they are in prison to prepare for their release and prevent recidivism? This text has nothing to say about it. The subject is thorny, difficult, but it does not dispense with tackling it and starting to search for solutions. But research and experimentation require resources, which remain unobtainable. Basically, your bill offers only a few legislative adjustments. It is true that there is good news: the extension of the statute of limitations from twenty to thirty years for sexual crimes committed against minors. These traumas are of such violence that they can be buried by memory for years before returning to haunting the victims in adulthood. But this prolongation is unfortunately limited to rapes committed on minors, and does not concern adulthood. In the same way, you are planning sanctions for cyber-harassers, which is not luxury, but – we regret – women will always have an obligation to denounce the sometimes very many sexist messages or incitement to hatred and violence against them. Here too, it would have been necessary to give direction to the GAFAs and new powers to the CSA, which does not have the powers to supervise digital content. The other two articles contribute to the grave danger of a deterioration in the legal status of sexual violence. Article 2 is of particular interest to us. Since this morning there has been a petition of 250 personalities, including actress Karine Viard, feminist Caroline De Haas, former minister Yvette Roudy, and gender and sexual violence specialist Muriel Salmona.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u28	We're not in 1981 anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u29	She urges you to withdraw this article 2. Ladies and gentlemen, rape has been a crime under French law since 1832. The women's movement fought to define it; In the past, rapes were in fact never tried in the assizes, but in the correctional courts. Through feminist mobilization, women's commitment, in 1980, we managed to remove a definition of rape, linked to "any act of penetration". This is what specifies rape in relation to other sexual assaults. It is a definition that can, of course, be discussed, in so far as it has an affirmed phallocentric character – sexuality is defined by penetration – but it has the merit of existing and allowing rape to be judged in front of the assizes. As a result, rape differs from sexual assault and sexual assault, not by consent or threat factors, but by the fact that there is an act of penetration. With your article 2, you extend the definition of "sexual abuse of minors" to include acts of penetration of a major, an adult, over a minor under the age of fifteen. In plain terms, you open Pandora's box of increased correction of rapes on minors...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u30	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u31	... where child victims of rape should be better protected and judgements should be strengthened on the basis of rape, and on minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u32	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u33	We were all marked by the Pontoise trial, where a dismissal was pronounced concerning a "sexual relationship" between an eleven-year-old girl and a twenty-eight-year-old man. At the time, I had asked the Government a question of topicality, which had been greeted on all the benches of this assembly. You answered me positively, Mrs. Belloubet. But what seemed to agree with us at the time is now not found in this law. Even if the Constitutional Council is problematic with the term "irrefragable", which can be understood, we could have been bold and could have affirmed a political will for the presumption of non-consentation. The Pontoise case, which is unfortunately not the only one, had enough to scandalize and question. We all wonder how the question of consent can reasonably be asked in the case of an 11-year-old girl facing an adult. The legislator must send a strong signal to the magistrates and to society as a whole so that this kind of judgment no longer happens. For this reason, in cases of rape of minors under the age of thirteen, we propose that the law affirm a presumption of non-consent in order to reverse the burden of proof and to ensure that the justification for the acts is imposed on the adult, not on the victim, so young, who is sometimes still a child or a child. I solemnly ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to think carefully and not to make the mistake of adopting this Article as it stands. In the same vein, article 4 presents the risk of leading to a legal downgrading of sexual harassment. Yes, we must affirm our rejection of street harassment, because it is unbearable! Women are not objects of public space that are whistled and insulted. But let us be careful about the use that could be made of this new offence, as drafted. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has before it, and I am deeply sorry for this, an ill-drafted law with setbacks, a law with no scope, which misses its subject, and I would even say, its raison d'être. In the "start-up nation" dear to Macronie, we always ask for results: the railway workers, the students, the unemployed. We want to be pragmatic. So I ask you, what will be the concrete result of this law? How many women who are victims of gender-based and sexual violence will see their situation improved by this law? How many are going to be accompanied? Will gender-based and sexual violence be prevented by this law? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, on several benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the IDU-Agir group]] In order to hunt mice and lift mountains, we propose, by this motion for reference, to resume the discussion and the work in committee. Give us time to convince you that the fight against gender-based and sexual violence requires so much more and so much better than your unsustainable renunciation. Let's not give up that chance to do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u34	On the motion for referral back to committee, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u35	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Autain, I have listened to you and I share your words, which describe very well the pain experienced by many women. On the other hand, I refute your unbearable lightness in the analysis of the text. [[Same movements]] You have described this text as a "wretched law": I refute the indecency of the qualifier that you apply to the text that we propose. With my colleague Marlène Schiappa, I choose, contrary to what you have said, the consistency of a text that we want to focus exclusively on criminal repression. We demand the clarity of this law, which focuses exclusively on this issue. I choose the plurality of actions carried out within our Government and, beyond that, by all the actors involved in the fight against violence against women and children. This plurality of actions is defended, by my colleagues and myself, in each of the ministerial segments. You will find actions in the fields of education, justice, police and, of course, those led by Mrs Schiappa. I choose the intelligence of this chain of actions, because, contrary to what you have said, the implementation of a number of tools, which can be useful for women in distress – digital platforms, the possibility of filing a pre-complaint online – does not run counter to other actions, particularly those related to the training of actors. I choose this chain of actions that goes from supporting associations to training the actors, to putting in place appropriate tools. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I also choose, and we are carrying it together, a renovated right which, by the provisions that we propose, would probably have given another direction to the Pontoise case. With the arrangements we are making, it goes without saying that these decisions would have been different. I would remind you, Mrs. Autain, that there was no trial leading to a non-trial in Pontoise, but a decision to prosecute the prosecution of the sexual assault charge, which was invalidated by the court considering that an investigating judge should further investigate the rape charge. You have to be precise, Congresswoman! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You are asking us about the concrete result we expect from this text; It is very simple: we expect better protection for women and better repression of rape. If we did, it would be a collective victory for all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u36	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u37	Mrs Clementine Autain, like everyone else, I found the first nineteen minutes of your speech extremely interesting. You make a feminist observation that I necessarily share, but, for the rest and for the political side, I found your caricatural or even wrong words, and therefore disappointing coming from you. I will not go back to what my colleague has said, but I would like to clarify the means, because what you have said is wrong. There is a call for projects with 4 million euros to launch a major communication plan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u38	It's human, not communication!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u39	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... but also 420 million put on the table by the Government, which is the highest level of investment ever made by a Government for equality between women and men – 420 million euros! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to point out that the appropriations for programme 137 "Equality between women and men" are not the only investment of the Government. Thus, the Serious Hazard Phone, which allows women to call for help, costs 900000 euros per year, covered by the budget of the Ministry of Justice. The platform for talking to the police is handled by the Ministry of the Interior. The three annual sessions on education in emotional and sexual life, which we will put in place via a circular sent by Jean-Michel Blanquer to the rectors, containing a catalogue of all associations approved for intervention in the school environment – IMS – are covered by the national education budget. I could continue to gine these examples for hours, as no Government has devoted as much resources to equality between women and men. Rejoice, for we put in place the sexuality education you call your vows: it does not go through the law, because it is already in the law. The law already obliges schools to hold three sessions on the subject. So we're talking about enforcement, which is what Jean-Michel Blanquer's circular does. You call yourself the Defender of Rights? Let us rejoice, because the Defender of Rights, who is not known to be flowing with the Government,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u40	Yes, he is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u41	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...has given his opinion, which is in favour of clause 2 of our bill. I know you like to call back untruths, but a repeated lie several times doesn't make a truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u42	You know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u43	The prerogatives of the CHSCT have not disappeared, since they are fully taken over by the Social and Economic Committee – CSE. You are calling for a framework law, but, if you don't mind, Mrs. Autain, our government has made a different choice, that of having thematic laws. The fight against gender-based and sexual violence at work will be carried out by the Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, within the framework of the law which she will defend here before you in June and which you can enrich with your many amendments, I am sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u44	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u45	We are working on paternity leave, which you also mentioned, and we have commissioned a mission to the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – to seriously study its lengthening and/or its best remuneration. I'm saying "study seriously," honourable Member, because the incantations are not enough, yet we need to know how to finance these measures and how to estimate their effects on families.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u46	A little respect, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u47	You are aware that in France, compulsory family policies sometimes have a click effect, as demonstrated in 2014 by the compulsory distribution of parental leave between the father and the mother, which did not allow more fathers to take parental leave, but, on the contrary, to more mothers. I think we need to get out of the incantations and look for efficiency. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In what you call Macronie, which is called the parliamentary majority, which can also be respected, efficiency is an objective, shared by all members of the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You mentioned the railwaymen, and I did not understand how they justified referring this text back to committee, but why not? You say you want a framework law, but you actually wanted a pot-pourri law, in which we would have found everything and anything. This is not our choice, and we make the choice of efficiency and coherence for women and for victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u48	A little less arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u49	I call Mrs Alexandra Louis, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u50	After the words of Mrs. Custody of Seals and Ms. Secretary of State, I will simply make a few comments on the motion to refer the matter back to committee. Mrs Autain, through many examples, you make a point that we all share on these benches, which you cannot dispute.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u51	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u52	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We all share the same goals and are committed to better protecting women and children. It is in this spirit that we have built and improved this legislation. You speak of four very meagre articles, you barely qualify the extension of the prescription as good news, while it represents, for many victims, the promise to be able to prosecute the perpetrators. No, this is not just good news, this text goes much further. It is not a text of hindsight, as you call it, but of progress, which will better protect the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u53	Like the reform of the justice system!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u54	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It seems to me that you are confusing Article 2, which I would like to correct, having worked extensively on this article and carried out numerous hearings: you are referring to the crime of sexual assault, dear Mrs Autain, but this offence already exists in our legislation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u55	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u56	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It already understands the act of penetration. A sexual relationship between a minor under the age of 15 and a major is already punishable, whether or not there is penetration, from the point of view of sexual assault. You confuse several offences, and we will return to them because the debates on this article will be very rich. We need to clarify things now: we are talking about three different offences and we are not removing the distinction between them. On the other hand, we are changing the article on the definition of sexual assault and rape to take into account the specific nature of minors. That is why this text is a step forward, and you are confusing with the sexual abuse of a societal ban that already exists. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I wanted to correct this confusion, which today crystallizes the criticisms of Article 2: you would like to make us believe that we are not moving forward, as we are giving better protection to children under the age of 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u57	She didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u58	In the explanations of vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee, Mrs Naïma Moutchou spoke for the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u59	The Group of the European People's Party will of course reject the motion to refer the matter back to committee for two reasons. The first is of pure form: this text was examined last week in the committee of laws for more than eight hours, during which all the votes were expressed – Mrs Autain, if I may say so, you were not the least vehement. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The second, more essential, touches on the bottom: Mrs.Autain, that you can imagine for a second that we would have had in this bill the desire to demote one of the most abject child crimes that are, namely rape, to do more than one crime is truly disturbing and ridiculous. To hear you say that there would be those who would like to protect children and others, and that we would have shamefully and wretchedly, in your own words, remote in this matter, is not only false – rape remains rape – but also unbearable and degrading for all those who act forcefully and at different levels to better protect minors. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, we can debate, and we agree on the findings, but conveying false information, as you have done with others, on the basis of arguments that call for the worst concerns of the victims, is purely demagogic and that is like manipulation. As proof of this, I would like to ask the Defender of Rights, of which you usually do not fail to echo, ladies and gentlemen of the La France group, but that, here, you hide strangely: he states without fail that article 2 does not entail any declassification of the crime of rape. On the contrary, with this text, we propose to go as far as possible in the fight against gender-based and sexual violence. We are doing this on account of the fact that there is no question of replicating past errors with regard to incest or sexual assault, nor of voting today for measures that would not be applied tomorrow in court on the grounds that they would be unconstitutional. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's a bet we won't take, just because it's not a game. We will have the opportunity at a later stage to detail the measures provided for in the text. For the time being, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to vote on the motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u60	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Viry, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u61	Clearly, the subject deserves consideration. The text before us will undoubtedly provoke heated debates, which I hope will not be arrogant on either side.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u63	The text presents a first difficulty, which stems from its procedure of examination in committee. Remember, ladies and gentlemen: it was a Wednesday between two public holidays, on 8 and 10 May, while travel in France was complicated by the railway movement and some of us were unable to come to Paris or leave.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u64	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u65	I was there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u66	The text was discussed in the evening, in the presence of a small number of Members,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u67	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u68	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... while the subject indeed demands and deserves attention. This, in my view, is a first reason to give us time to rework the text in committee as much as necessary. In addition, the bill is being introduced in response to cases of sexual crimes, which have been underreported, prosecuted and punished in our country for too many years. The text must respond to a social movement that everyone aspires to complete, in order to hear and defend women victims of rape. We need to upset the situation in this area. However, it must be agreed – and I assume that the general discussion will make it possible to ensure this – that, to date, some elements of appreciation and some answers are missing in the text. There is also a lack of breath to effectively address the societal challenges of sexual violence. For example, the silence of the text on the simple presumption of coercion with regard to the classification of rape as a sexual relationship between an adult and a minor. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For these reasons, the members of the Republicans Group will vote on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u69	Mrs Isabelle Florennes, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u70	The bill has been extensively debated in the Law Commission. Our work on the five articles in the original text lasted eight hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u71	It's nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u72	Many Members were present, Mr Viry, despite the vagaries of traffic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u73	Very little on the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u74	I think there were enough of us for a 9th of May.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u75	Yes, from Paris, but we, elected in the province, were not there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u76	On that occasion, everyone was able to present their positions in a clear and reasoned manner. Our work has made it possible to make some improvements to the text. Of course, the issues have not been exhausted, but I doubt that they will ever be exhausted given the complexity and sensitivity of the issues. Of course, this bill can still be enriched, and I hope it will be. However, we do not believe that it is necessary to refer the text back to committee and would like the debate to take place today in the Chamber. That is why the members of the MODEM and related groups will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u77	Sophie Auconia, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u78	While the announcement of the bill has raised much hope, the text tabled on our desks and debated in the Law Commission is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u80	Each article must be enriched by our reflections. I will take a very simple example that has not yet been mentioned, that of the automated judicial file of perpetrators of sexual or violent offences. If a person is not sentenced to imprisonment for a term of five years or more, a perpetrator of sexual assault or abuse is not required to be included in the sentence. It is at the discretion of the prosecutor or the competent court. A music teacher, sentenced to less than five years in prison for sexual touching in southern France, was recruited at the conservatory in Paris and left in February in China with a group of forty minors. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u81	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u82	He's far from the only one!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u83	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u84	I do not know whether its inclusion in the sex offender roster could have changed the situation, but I believe that in any case a person who commits sexual violence who has been sentenced to a full prison sentence must be included in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u85	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u86	Why does the Government refuse to take such a step? What constraint does this entail for the perpetrators of such acts, if not to inform the authorities of any change of address and confirm it every year? Madam seal keeper, these are simple measures that would have enriched the text. You say that the text must be a penal law. I regret, but the great cause of the quinquennium – even if we look at a thematic text, in your own words – cannot be reduced to criminal repression. The great cause of the quinquennium, with regard to the fight against violence against women,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u87	What you're saying is not right, MP!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u88	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I do not want to argue, Madam Keeper of the Seals, but we expect you to have a text and a legislative framework that is so much more ambitious that the members of the IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote on the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u89	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u90	You are right, Madam Secretary of State, we must use precise terms. It seems to me that our colleague Clementine Autain, whose masterful intervention has embraced the ambition that drives us,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u91	Magistral?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u92	...has been accurate and has made measured statements. If we are so hard, it is because our demand is great. You have to be precise. The least we can say, as the debates in the Committee on Laws have shown, is that your text – as you have just said – is far from being so. Members of your majority themselves have questioned the content and meaning of the proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u93	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u94	We must be precise, Madam rapporteur, but the least we can say is that the confusion between crime and crime or between sexual assault and rape has most often characterized the debates that we have had in committee on the benches of the Government and the majority, which defend the text. We therefore note that the debate deserves to go to the bottom of things and clarify the situation. It's not about being caricatural to be caricatural. You can say that this is a position of the group La France insubmissive, but do you think that the High Council for Equality between Women and Men, which has issued a declaration against Article 2, is composed of liars, provocateurs and people with caricatures? We do not always agree with his views, but in this case we are. As far as the Defender of Rights is concerned, he has in fact approved Article 2 and it is true that we often agree with him, but on this point we are not. When such bodies raise problems, we must debate! Forget the group La France insubmissive and think of the national collective for women's rights, the associations and the 250 personalities calling for the withdrawal of article 2, who are not all close to the group La France insubmissive, so much so! If so many people involved in justice and associations claim that this text of four articles is particularly indigent to claim to solve the issue of sexual and gender-based violence, and even when it has been studied in one day, in confusion, it is not enough. It is not only the members of the La France insoumée group who affirm it, but also dozens of associations, magistrates and lawyers as well as the High Council for Equality between Men and Women.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u95	Not all are leftists!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u96	You can repel our arguments with one back of hands, Madam Secretary of State, but at least hear them, because we are convinced that everyone is ready to do this work and...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u97	Thank you, dear colleague. Mrs Huguette Bello, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u98	Unless we are in bad faith, no one knows that the issue of the protection of minors, our children, has given rise to a great debate in society and has aroused a strong expectation among our fellow citizens. The least we can say is that the bill fails to meet that expectation. It falls short of the commitments made and Article 2 does not help to remove ambiguities. This lag gives rise to great disappointment and even anger. We have to hear each other. Because this is a sensitive, difficult and delicate subject, the message must be clear and understandable by all. Is that the case with Article 2? The controversy surrounding its most important provisions at the moment is a bad sign. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Our responsibility is to respond to concerns. As such, the text aggravates them. It is therefore essential to continue the reflection which, obviously, has not been completed. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u99	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u100	In the general debate, Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u101	Mr. Chair, Mrs. Keeper of the Seals, Ms. Secretary of State, Ms. Chair of the Committee, Ms. Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "My mind had stopped spinning and my whole body revolted. It was like having a fever, it was like delirious and feeling his body breaking up. [...] It was also a period of violent crises of anxiety. My body was screaming, my mind was expiating... too much terror for one person. And it was a time when I self-mutilated. Making my body suffer was, in my eyes, the best way to prove to me that it still belonged to me. I could "choose" suffering, and no longer suffer it through others. » These words are taken from the testimony of a woman who is a victim of marital rape, but they could be those of each of the 225,000 women who each year suffer sexual or physical violence inflicted by their partner. What is our feeling of listening to these words? Anger, compassion for the victim, disgust, fear – perhaps all of this. In any event, we are unanimous in saying that these situations are intolerable. Living in fear of going home because a predator shares your daily life is intolerable. Trying to listen deafly to the derogatory and sexist remarks of his co-workers is intolerable. To have to cross a street frequented by individuals who specialize in harassment by lowering their eyes and speeding up the pace is intolerable. Praying that his child's classmates don't fry him for his photos published on social media is intolerable. Ladies and gentlemen, a society that lives in this fear is intolerable. On several occasions, and again recently, we have had the illustration that our society was in turmoil when the scourge of sexual and gender-based violence was dealt with by the media. Why do you have such a strong resonance? Because it's a subject that's been denied for too long. He forged family secrets, pushed a girl to suicide, caused a student's academic results to fall, when predators and harassers felt on the contrary protected by the anesthesia of the senses: not to talk about the facts, not to see the realities, not to hear calls for help, not to fight. Today, the word has freed itself. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to hear this word, to act and to ensure that fear changes sides. As the head of the text for the majority group, I must tell you how proud I have been to see the national representation united, aware of the issues at stake, keen to debate this bill, and willing to legislate to combat this scourge. Be aware that I have been very sensitive to the discussions I have had with each and every one of you on the text of this bill; I felt that I was communicating, not with a colleague from the majority or the opposition, but with a citizen who had expectations and testimonies to deliver. It was through these exchanges that I understood that we were all concerned, because we all know a family member, a friend, a relative, a neighbour who has been confronted, at some point in his life, with sexual or gender-based violence. In concrete terms, the reflections of parliamentarians, of all sensitivities, have enriched and strengthened the text. I take as an example the extension of the criminal overqualification of incest to rape and sexual assault committed against adults, whereas it has so far only concerned minors. I am also thinking of the creation of an additional aggravating circumstance when rape and sexual assault are committed on public transport, or of the possibility given to associations to become a civil party – a measure proposed by one of our colleagues in the La France Insoumise group. In particular, associations accompany victims in order to encourage them to initiate legal proceedings. I also felt, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State, during the hearings and the debates in committee, that the devices of your project meet the expectations of society. You have carried out, with dignity and respect for everyone's concerns, measures that have been built following broad consultation with relevant and relevant actors. This bill is a translation of a presidential promise. As on many subjects, what has been said is done. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you once again for your active participation in the committee and your involvement, which is disconnected from any political instrumentalisation. The debates on this sensitive subject will, I am sure, be just as constructive and calm in this House. Once again, our work will be looked at and commented on. Let us be worthy of the trust that society has given us...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u102	And humble!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u103	Oh, trust's already gone, I think.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u104	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...and let us fight together against this scourge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u105	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the Chairperson of the Delegation for Women's Rights, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, opposed sexist behaviour, gender stereotypes and gender discrimination, refusing sexual and gender-based violence, it was as much a cultural struggle as political action. There is a need for a change in attitudes and practices. The law can contribute to this; It can relay and transcribe aspirations, expectations, needs and progress into the norm. But always, since it is binding on all and constitutes the norm, the law must seek efficiency and clarity. Always, the law must free itself from opportunism and forget the emotion that can guide its drafting. As a member of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between women and men, I seek to bring my stone to the building of this cultural struggle on the place of women in the French social corps. I have, in this capacity and at this moment, a strong thought for all volunteers, for all militant associations that struggle with courage, with little means, on the ground to make these words a reality. Last fall, a tremendous free speech movement began. We must remember only one thing: the opportunity given to women to say "it's enough". It's enough to get assaulted; It's enough to get harassed; It's enough to accept the teddy; It's enough, above all, to keep quiet. The fight against gender-based violence and the fight for equality between women and men is not a matter for anyone. This action, this commitment, belongs neither to a sex nor to a political colour. Thus, one of the major laws of recent years was adopted under a right-wing government in 2010 and proposed jointly by a socialist MP, Danielle Bousquet, and a UMP MP, Guy Geoffroy. The old world, so mocked, knew how to overcome divisions to agree on major causes, such as the fight against violence against women. At The Republicans, we know how to look at bills outside partisan divisions. We receive this text with benevolence. But, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, that will not prevent me from saying in a few words my truth about this text. We were told. We were warned, with a great deal of communication, as your government knows how to do so well: we were going to see what we were going to see! Then we received your draft, and now we have the feeling that this text, which goes in the right direction, is a small act of circumstance. Worse, the few measures included in this bill will be inapplicable: this law can be portrayed as a law of emotion. Because a great free speech movement has started, you are trying to get it back and you want to create a new sexist contempt offence punishable by a fourth-class fine – this is Article 4. But how can we prove a sexist contempt offence? In Portugal, where such an offence has existed since 2015, not a single conviction has been handed down.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u107	It's not the same text at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u108	In Belgium, only three fines have been distributed since 2014. It is certainly for this reason that a union of magistrates denounces "inapplicable and incoherent new laws, likely to cause the disappointment of our fellow citizens". To this is added the form. The determination of contraventions, as well as applicable penalties, is a matter for the regulatory authority. There was therefore no need to resort to the law to punish street harassment and to enact a social ban. The Government often scrupulously demands that Parliament not legislate in regulatory areas. Why do it here? I fear that this is, alas, only political communication. The subject is, however, a major one; This is a problem for me and I deeply regret this way of doing it. In particular, it aims to strengthen the protection of minors from sexual violence and to safeguard the rights of victims. It is indeed a necessity. Clause 2 of your bill has that ambition; But it must be noted that it strikes one another, disappoints the other, and ultimately insecures and worries more than it advances the law. Amendments will be tabled to improve its content and scope, thereby consolidating our legislative arsenal. Your intention, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, is commendable; on such an important subject, we cannot afford to miss the check. In 2018, the fight for the recognition of women's rights remains relevant. There is still a need to fight for gender equality because women's freedom is not acquired. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Even if your bill looks like a wall brick rather than a solid brick, there is still a brick in the wall of the fight against violence. That is why I should vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u109	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, the Chairperson of the Delegation for Women's Rights, ladies and gentlemen, dealing with the issue of sexual and gender-based violence, denouncing and punishing it in all its spaces and in all its incarnations, is the initial ambition of this text, shared by many of us. At the end of the debates in the Committee on Laws, it appears that this text is not entirely successful. With regard to gender-based violence, and more specifically gender-based outrage – or street harassment – the bill provides a response to section 4 that we hope will deter unbearable behaviour and practices that prevent women from evolving calmly in public space. In this regard, we welcome the principle of a fourth or fifth class contravention, with an awareness-raising course on equality between women and men. We hope that this mechanism will be of certain educational interest and will empower the authors of these facts. The same is true of the provisions provided for in Article 3 of the text: the broadening of the definition of online harassment must make it possible to better punish these famous "digital raids" in which Internet users, certainly galvanized by the sense of impunity conferred on them by the anonymity of the Internet, target a particular individual. Again, the answer seems entirely appropriate since no repetition of the facts is necessary to sanction the infringement. Internet users will no longer be able to defend themselves by invoking the punctuality of their actions, since any act, even isolated, will now be punished. With regard to sexual violence, which was the subject of articles 1st and 2 of the bill, the finding was less encouraging. While the MODEM and related group welcomes the ten-year extension of the statute of limitations for sexual crimes committed against minors from twenty to thirty years, we call for a substantive debate on the subject. That is the whole meaning of our amendment No 165. It is essential, in view of the many scientific advances in traumatic amnesia, that opinions and expertise be confronted with each other. We have known for several years that, in order to deal with the suffering created by the violence they have suffered, and simply to survive, individuals, both minors and adults, can relegate into the limbs of their memory some painful episodes, which reappear – sometimes despite them – years later. In these circumstances, speaking is made impossible. It therefore seems unthinkable not to take this element into account in our approach. Another issue of which we are convinced is that it deserves enrichment: the consent of minors. When you propose the following wording: "When the acts are committed against a person under fifteen years of age, moral coercion or surprise are characterized by the abuse of vulnerability of the victim who does not have the discernment necessary to consent to such acts", we reply: "When the acts are committed against a person under fifteen years of age, moral coercion is presumed". When you want to preserve what you call the architecture of our right, we want to protect children first and foremost. If the presentation made here can give the impression of irreconcilable opposition, we believe, on the contrary, that this is not the case. Synthesis is always possible: our proposal does not upset the architecture of our law; it does not violate the protection of the rights of the defence. It corrects an iniquitous asymmetry and restores a balance by reversing the burden of proof so as to place it on the defendant rather than on the minor, for whom it is difficult or traumatic to have to speak in this context. Last but not least, to increase the protection of minors: the obligation for establishments hosting sports activities to make a declaration of all professional and voluntary sports educators they use. These three amendments reaffirm the commitment of the MODEM and related group to the protection of children, a commitment shared by the President of the Republic, who, on 25 November, at the launch of the grand national cause of the quinquennium, said: "We will lay down a clear rule in the law, because we cannot accept that the presumption of consent applies so vaguely when a sexual relationship between a minor and an adult occurs. [...] It is a subject of great sensitivity where the debate of society, of conscience, must take its place. [...] I want to give you a personal conviction here, that we should no doubt align with the age of sexual majority set in our right to fifteen years [...] for the sake of consistency and protection of minors this presumption." If the legislator must absolutely guard against the horrors of the current situation, he unfortunately cannot escape it completely, especially when the latter regularly catch up with it. While recent events remind us of the lacunae of our system, this bill is a great opportunity to remedy it, which must not be missed, unless we disappoint the hopes raised by this bill. The MODEM and related groups will vote for this text but believe, like many, that it is still possible to enrich it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u111	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u112	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us today an important bill, because it is essential for the better protection of victims of sexual violence, but also because it sends a strong signal in our society, at a time when the President of the Republic has made equality between women and men the great cause of his quinquennium. I do not recall the figures that have been mentioned several times already: rape is the most widespread crime in France, but also the most unpunished. For some time now, an awareness has shaken our societies. In France, as elsewhere, voices rise, the word frees itself. Particularly sordid cases are at the origin of this liberation of speech. Our institutions, the Minister, the Secretary of State, must take advantage of this context to be more ambitious. The news requires us to mention the case of Little Angelica. In northern France, this 11-year-old child suffered horror before being murdered. The perpetrator of this crime is a repeat rapist who, this time, has chosen to kill his victim – a continuum of violence in deafening silence. First of all, I wish to support the family and reiterate, on this particular day, that the text we are debating is central and must fill the loopholes in our legislative machinery. Sexual violence is the most destructive form of violence a person can experience.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u113	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u114	Attacks on younger children are the most serious. They leave indelible psychological marks and, for many, these attacks will affect their adult life and adult life. These injuries cause deeper scars and require more attention. The latest findings of neuroscience prove this: these violence cause irreversible damage to the brain and result in serious and numerous pathologies – diabetes, hypertension, cancers, chronic gynaecological diseases, for example. The younger the child, the more dramatic the consequences. It is our duty to better protect our children. It is our duty to be intransigent, not to let the victim wallow in silence, regardless of age, gender and timing. Articles 1 and 2 are certainly progress, but far too timid in my view; I regret that we have not extended the prescription period further to take into account traumatic amnesia. We are not all equal in the face of the traumatic shock, but everyone must have the same rights. We stand in a spirit of justice, like you, the minister, the secretary of state, and reparation for those whose aggression was so violent and unacceptable that oblivion was the only way to cope with it and survive. That is why we will support the imprescriptibility of sexual crimes against minors. In addition, I will propose to include traumatic amnesia in the law and make it an insurmountable obstacle, suspending the statute of limitations. Thus, victims who leave amnesia will be able to have their complaint investigated if the offence is prescribed, subject to medical expertise, of course. Article 2 leaves me puzzled, I do not insist, and we will have an opportunity to discuss it. With regard to sexist outrage, you have often, Madam Secretary of State, highlighted the pedagogical aspect of this text. I agree with you: in order to better combat violence, outrage and sexual harassment, our best weapon is education. So let's start a campaign now! What are we waiting for? In L'Express last week, you refer to the creation of equality referents at school from September onwards. What the hell! Why don't you do it tomorrow? We know how useful that would be. Without having taken up the proposals made in the report of the delegation on women's rights, on the grounds that they did not fit into this piece of legislation, I ask you to hear the arguments that we will make during this debate to demonstrate how much they could enrich and improve your text. I want to talk to you about the national file of sexual abusers, the impact of pornographic content, the image of women on the Internet, the initial training – we will have the opportunity to address these issues. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You have given some – police, gendarmes, as well as associations and victims – the hope that the proposed legislative framework would improve the conditions of investigation. That's not the case. Listen to our proposals to enrich the text and give it the meaning it deserves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u115	That is a constructive statement!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u116	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u117	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Chairperson of the Delegation for Women's Rights, Mrs Rapporteur, for a long time some people have believed that they have the right to commit violence and to violate the dignity of women, but also of men and even of children, because of their gender and age, with a strong sense of impunity. The stakes are both legal and societal. We must show the collective will to act to stop sexual and gender-based violence. This announced bill was expected. It is natural that it should be thoroughly analysed because attacks on the physical and psychological integrity of individuals as well as sexual violence are important subjects in a society that seeks to protect, prevent and punish these most serious acts effectively and sustainably. In addition, the expectations of citizens and society are strong in this area. It should be considered that this text is intended to contribute to the progress of society. Behaviours acceptable to those who adopt them, those who dominate them, those who exploit them, are gradually becoming unacceptable. The position of those who used to be violent without generating public and political reactions, without fear of sanctions by the social body, is weakened because their attitude is now judged by the vast majority of the shameful, reprehensible social body, to be banished and prosecuted by the law. As we know, respect for the rule has an internal dimension: the rule is seen as a model to be followed by those who respect it. Gradually, by strengthening criminalization, we move from constraints that sometimes remained personal and external to global and internalized imperatives. This is a paradox that must be borne in mind! These considerations are not only general, they are not, if I may say so, between heaven and earth. If we need a criminal component, we also need public policies that take into account the various dimensions of such behaviour – I will come back to that. The bill extends a continuous and consistent movement to penalize certain behaviours. It provides answers which, for some, are appropriate and necessary, and which, for others, raise questions as to their scope and effectiveness. It is, as I said in committee, part of a recent history of converging texts and many in recent years. To take just one example, the Sexual Harassment Act of 6 August 2012 provided a more precise definition of the concept of sexual harassment and strengthened the protection of victims, particularly in the professional setting. I would like to welcome the contributions of this text, to share with you questions and to share with you the willingness of the New Left Group to improve the project. It is a matter of going further, in keeping with our long-term commitment to accelerating behavioural change through a comprehensive, ambitious, educational and preventive policy that addresses the models of our society in which women are too often reorganized, regardless of their age, and reduced to objects of desire and possession. Among the advances made, the bill provides for an extension of the statute of limitations to 30 years for sexual crimes against minors. This extension is justified for sociological and scientific reasons even if the question of evidence is likely to continue to arise. Regrettably, some avenues of accompaniment and reparation for victims have not been considered when the statute of limitations no longer permits prosecution. The bill also strengthens the punishment of sexual abuse of minors under the age of 15. The text has evolved, even before it was discussed by Parliament, since the creation of a presumption of coercion in the event of sexual assault by a major has been ruled out, as it does not conform to our constitutional and conventional standards. The text also provides for a new criminality – gender-based contempt – which consists of imposing on a person any sexual or gender-based speech or behaviour that either violates his or her dignity by reason of his or her degrading or humiliating character or creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive situation against him or her. These acts will constitute a fourth-class or fifth-class contravention in the event of aggravating circumstances. The project expands the definition of harassment to address "digital raids". The offences of sexual or moral harassment will be constituted when the words or behaviour are imposed on the same victim in a concerted manner by several persons, even though each of these persons has not acted repeatedly. I would now like to highlight the questions raised by the text. With regard to the punishment of sexual abuse committed against minors under the age of 15, if the notions of moral coercion and surprise are redefined, justice will always have to ask itself the question of the victim's discernment. Moreover, with increased penalties for sexual abuse, there is a risk that the system will lead to less punishment for rape, as a result of a greater correction of the offence. Any change in the penalties would merit a more comprehensive reflection on the characterization of the offences and the penalties imposed. Here again, the absence of any assessment of criminal practices and the effects of sentences imposed lacks the preliminary reflection of our deliberations. That is why our group has tabled a number of amendments aimed at establishing a new definition of rape and at fixing the age below which any sexual relationship or assault would be described as rape at thirteen years. Our amendments are based on what exists in the legislation of other countries facing the same developments and challenges in the area of penalisation – I am thinking of Belgium and the United Kingdom. Thus, our group calls on the Assembly to amend clause 2 of the bill. With regard to street harassment, a new criminalization seems useful only if one is able to reconcile the insecurity of persons committing such acts with a realistic application of the scheme. The feeling of harassment often arises, or in any case, partly, if I may say so, from the lack of application of the existing provisions. Verbal violence, mild violence, physical violence, public display are all acts the punishment of which is provided for in the Criminal Code. If we support the creation of the proposed new infringement, we question the operational aspects of its implementation. We fear that acts of gender-based outrage will ultimately be poorly or poorly verbalized, due to insufficient police presence and the fact that it will be difficult to provide evidence of what is actually being said. It is said that the new daily security police could largely ensure the detection and repression of such behaviour. However, let us also not forget that these sexist outrages exist or nest in places less exposed to third parties. In addition, our group notes that the creation of a gender-based offence is a priori a matter of regulation rather than law. Finally, our group notes that the overall policy of prevention, including education, is insufficient on the general issue of violence against women – I particularly stress this point. Let us recall the context: many acts of violence are rarely prosecuted or not prosecuted. We want to improve and complete the scheme, as you mentioned earlier in your response, Minister. In particular, it is necessary to assess what is actually done throughout school, from primary to high school, in order to support a comprehensive approach, which we believe is indispensable. At the same time, we would like to see an assessment of the process and the concrete reality of accompanying victims with regard to the full treatment of medical and paramedical expenses by health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u118	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u119	We will have the opportunity to defend all these proposals and discuss them during the discussion of the articles. We hope to obtain positive answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u121	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u122	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill to strengthen the fight against sexual and gender-based violence is similar to a number of other government texts: there have been a lot of hearings, a lot of consultations and a lot of communication, but the result is more than disappointing. This bill has four sections. Article 1 provides for the extension of the statute of limitations for rape of minors to 30 years. Article 2 seeks to modify the elements of rape committed on a victim under the age of 15 by a person of age. Article 3, on online harassment, complements the definitions of moral harassment and sexual harassment. Article 4 seeks to suppress street harassment by creating a gender-based offence of contempt. It is not clear, in practice, how these two articles can be applied. We believe that the responses proposed in this bill are far below those that should be implemented. In our view, this text clearly lacks ambition. Madam Keeper of the Seals, you say you have supported your work on various reports. Unfortunately, however, we do not find in the text the proposals resulting from the report of 22 February 2018 on rape presented by Mrs Sophie Auconie and Marie-Pierre Rixain. Our colleagues stressed that the situation was extremely serious. They expressed concern about the increase in the number of rapes in France. They noted that these crimes are part of a broader context of violence against women, but also against children. The figures they cited are more than worrying: in 2017, about 250,000 people – 93,000 women, 15,000 men and 150,000 minors – were victims of rape or attempted rape. However, only 9% of all these victims file complaints and, ultimately, only one in ten complaints leads to a conviction of the aggressor. In addition, they noted: "Violence against women takes many forms, with different degrees of severity: domestic violence, which can be physical, sexual, psychological or economic; street harassment; sexual assault; rape; prostitution; genital mutilation; Various discrimination on the basis of sex, etc. Women can suffer these different forms of violence in all spheres of life, in all their forms and at all ages; This is called the continuum of violence. On reading this report and considering the various issues raised, we note that this bill is not up to date: it is not up to the level of care for victims; it is not up to the efforts of justice professionals; It is not up to the work of the associations. Instead of offering us a broad framework for discussion, this text has locked us in legal and technical matters. The role of political power should have been to take up the issue of violence against women. As Clementine Autain said, it would have been necessary to propose a real framework law, with dated and quantified objectives, with ambitious means and measures in areas as varied as education, justice, work and health, not to mention the police and the gendarmerie. Let's put this bill in the general policy developed by your government over the past year. If we consider, for example, labour code reform orders, we find that you have removed CHSCTs by merging them with other jurisdictions. However, the CHSCT was a body for monitoring working conditions and represented a possible remedy for victims of harassment and violence. It is therefore a step backwards in the rights of employees. Your text deals only with sanctions against aggressors and rapists, and sins by many oblivion. You also indicated that this was a choice on your part. What about the prevention of violence? There is real educational work to be done, both in schools and in vocational training. However, we do not see any such proposals in the bill. What about the reception of victims? Only 10 per cent of rape victims file complaints. The gendarmerie and police stations are overloaded and are not sufficiently adapted to the specific nature of the treatment of sexual violence. Staff are not necessarily properly trained. There, too, we do not see any proposals to improve the situation. What about the practical application of existing measures and texts? Let us look at, for example, the protection order, a temporary arrangement that allows for the protection of a victim of domestic violence. As Caroline De Haas explains in an article recently published by Mediapart, the protection order is one of the best tools available to the justice system to protect women victims of domestic violence. To trigger it, it is enough to apply to a family judge. This is not put forward in your bill. What is the current status of law enforcement? As has been said, rape is a crime; It is therefore under the jurisdiction of the Assize Court. However, according to several lawyers, 60 to 80 per cent of rape cases would be corrected, as justice could not handle them properly. The phenomenon of correction illustrates the lack of financial, human and material resources for justice. The Commission does not have the possibility to apply existing legislation, which unfortunately affects the victims. As the High Council for Equality between Women and Men points out in one of its analyses, the practice of correction "minimizes the gravity of rape and challenges the principle of equality before the courts". What about the resources allocated to associations specializing in sexual and gender-based violence, which you mentioned earlier, Madam Secretary of State? On 31 January 2018, the European Association against Violence against Women at Work was forced to close its telephone reception. Overwhelmed by an uninterrupted flow of referrals from women victims of sexual violence at work, as well as from professionals seeking information, she was no longer able to respond to all requests. Like many other associations active throughout the country, the AVFT carries out work that the institutions and structures of the State do not carry out or do more. These associations develop real field expertise, adapt to the specificity of each case and deal with hundreds of thousands of situations per year. Associations are one of the pillars of violence prevention and victim support. But nothing is done to perpetuate their action, nor a fortiori to develop it. We have said this on several occasions: the lack of resources is obvious. You have told us that the budget did not fall in 2018, but, as you have also said, speech is free and needs are increasing; The current budget is therefore far below what is needed. You have made the choice of a media bill, with your Tour de France de l'égalité, your passages in the media, your little formulas. This approach refers more to a willingness to display and communicate than to a genuine response to the problem of sexual and gender-based violence. I repeat: your text lacks ambition and is broadly limited to an increase in sanctions. Prevention is insufficient, if not non-existent. This is also the case with the policy of improving the reception and support of victims. The resources allocated do not allow associations or the judiciary to function properly. Territorial equality does not exist in access to victim support structures. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The number of sexual and gender-based violence is very high in France. As you have said, it is indeed necessary for the public authorities to act. However, you propose to the victims, through this text, only advertising effects. The issue of gender-based and sexual violence deserved more attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u123	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u124	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, there were many expectations because there was much suffering; There were so many aspirations and so many possibilities to open, in this time when a desire for freedom, a desire for equality, a desire for sorority are expressed loud and clear. However, when we read this bill, it appears that they have not been listened to. In any case, I would like to commend the mobilization of feminist and child protection associations to combat sexual and gender-based violence. Of course, it had become essential to strengthen our legislative arsenal in order to punish such violence more heavily and effectively. But we are far from a law that is doing what is necessary to respond to challenges of such magnitude. I mean here our determination to continue the global fight against gender inequalities, gender-based violence and sexual violence. Of course, we welcome the extension of the statute of limitations for sexual crimes committed against minors, as provided for in section 1 of the bill. We know how hard it is for victims to denounce these crimes; sometimes it takes them very many years to find the strength to do so. However, in my view, it should be stressed that the extension of the statute of limitations to 30 years alone cannot be sufficient to improve the care and support of victims. Dare to denounce his attacker, it is often a path paved with moral and physical suffering. Crossing the door of the police station is far from natural, as the handling and investigation of the complaint can be difficult. It must be said again: to learn to hear the word, not to question the victim's story and not to minimize his suffering is not to undermine the accused's presumption of innocence. The duty of the State is not to add administrative and judicial violence to physical and moral violence. That is why we must continue to train the officials concerned to gather this word and to accompany the victims humanely – but we see here the limits of this bill: it is the whole society that must be accompanied. Improving the care of victims, both children and adults, must become a priority. This calls for much greater financial support from the State for associations and communities involved in such care. The removal, for example, of the State Secretariat for Victim Assistance is, in my view, a mistake, because it could have enabled concrete action to be taken at government level in this direction. I turn to article 2, on sexual abuse of minors, which raises more legal questions, since the balance between respect for the judge's discretion in classifying crimes and offences and the need to protect minors effectively is difficult to find. The passage of the bill before the Council of State has considerably weakened the original provisions, leading to a rewriting today called into question by the child protection associations – competent, let us recall, in this area. Although the work of the Law Commission has somewhat strengthened the bill, we are still far too far from what is required and what is required by associations or the High Council for Equality between Women and Men. For this reason, the GDR Group calls for a profound amendment of Article 2 with provisions that would improve the protection of children under 13 years of age, which could be linked to the measures proposed in this text for children under 15 years of age. We would like to see a clear provision in the text that states that any sexual act with penetration by a major over a 13-year-old must be characterized as rape, even in the absence of coercion, threat, violence or surprise. Under thirteen years of age, and even if physical and psychological maturity differ from one child to another, it is not possible to consent lucidly and with full knowledge of the cause to a sexual relationship with an adult. Similarly, sexual assault on a 13-year-old must be described as sexual assault. Such a provision is essential in order not to reproduce cases of correction of rape cases over a 13-year-old. Finally, I will conclude by recalling that our legislative action is far from over. The fight against gender-based violence and discrimination against women must be reflected at the legislative and regulatory levels, in a much greater way, in all spheres of society. The world of work is still gangregnated by harassment and wage discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u125	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u126	National education must also play a more important role. We need to give back teaching tools to teachers. In the field of sports practices, recent events recall the efforts to be made with regard to the prevention and training of teachers. The GDR Group hopes that the debate will lead to improvements and changes to the few articles proposed, while bitterly regretting that the formidable period of liberation of speech does not give rise to a response that is at the height of the courage of those who...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u127	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Thank you, Mrs Faucillon. Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u128	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, Mrs Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, during the presidential campaign, the candidate Emmanuel Macron made this promise: "there is a national cause that I will bear, which is equality between women and men". While the Weinstein case freed many victims of sexual harassment and abuse, the Head of State seized the subject with the presentation of a major sexual security plan. The objective is clear: to anchor in mentalities the reprehensible nature of certain behaviours. Recall that over a year, 93,000 women between the ages of 18 and 75 reported having been victims of rape or attempted rape, and that 53% of these acts occurred before the age of 18. Talking about it regularly is the best approach for society to realize that there is a vital need for things to finally move. Madam Secretary of State, this mission has been entrusted to you in order to implement a whole battery of preventive and repressive actions. It was essential to change attitudes, which was part of the preventive aspect of gender-based and sexual violence. I welcome the Government's commitment to establish a reception and listening unit at each university at the beginning of 2018, which will provide support and support to all victims of gender-based and sexual violence. However, there is a need to strengthen the judicial response, in order to facilitate the release of the word. What is striking, indeed, in terms of harassment, and which adds an injury to the wound, is the silence, the taboo that surrounds it. The task is heavy and vast. There are real emergencies in care and care, and it is by making progress in this area that France will live up to its commitments to equality between women and men. The bill is a follow-up to many of the work that has been done in recent months. As soon as you were appointed, Madam Secretary of State, you were preparing the Tour de France de l'égalité, of which more than a third of the workshops focused on the fight against violence. With a view to examining this bill, the Republic on the move has set itself a simple course of action, which consists of measuring each provision in accordance with two requirements: first, a rule of law that respects the republican principle of equality between women and men; Then, respect for the dignity of each and the protection of physical and mental integrity. Improving sanctions and ending impunity for perpetrators of gender-based and sexual violence are the goals for which we believe that our legislative arsenal needs to be strengthened. These facts, which are the most extreme and abhorrent expression of the domination of one sex over the other, must be fought unabated. The law will make it possible to more firmly condemn all gender-based and sexual violence: the statute of limitations will be extended for sexual crimes committed against minors and all cases of violence against victims under the age of 15 will be condemned. Well done. Because crimes evolve with our time, cyber-harassment in packs will be punished by law and, for the first time, street harassment enters the law. Several advances proposed by our group have made it possible to enrich the text: the circumstances that can be taken into account by the judge in assessing the existence of coercion or surprise in cases of sexual abuse have been clarified, the criminalization of incest has been extended, and I particularly welcome one of those advances, to which I have contributed, namely the extension of the list of aggravating circumstances for certain sexual violence. Other provisions will be presented to you by my colleagues. This law is in the right direction, and the Group of the European People's Party is pleased to have such a bill before you in this House, when you have only spent a year at the State Secretariat for Gender Equality. Madam Secretary of State, everyone here is aware of your level of listening and commitment to this cause, and I would like, together with the entire La République group on the move, to pay tribute to the quality of your work and that of your teams, which bring out this great cause of quinquennium far beyond our borders. The foundation of equity among all of us, I hope, will allow us to live in a reconciled society. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Madam Secretary of State, in her personal capacity and on behalf of the Sarthians, I would like to express to you our deep admiration and great pride for your great work and for the energy that a woman of your size has to offer us. Your fight is now ours. This text allows for a major step forward in the protection against such violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u129	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u130	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that equality between women and men has been declared a great cause of the quinquennium. This bill goes in the right direction and proposes some interesting elements – but it does not propose too much. Indeed, I wonder about the lack of ambition of this bill, which merely reacts to two case law and facts of the day, creates an offence that cannot be punished and adapts the repression of harassment to the digital age. This is so little, especially in comparison with the Act of 17 June 1998 on the prevention and punishment of sexual offences and the protection of minors! The Act contained 51 articles, created or amended 75 articles of law and dealt with both socio-judicial follow-up in rape cases, protection of minors from pornography, prevention of sexual offences against minors, recidivism, protection in schools and child pornography – the list of horrors dealt with by the Act alone is still long. How, then, can we satisfy ourselves today with such a modest text, as the stakes are great? How can we satisfy ourselves so little, whereas every year 225,000 women are victims of physical and/or sexual violence by their spouse, that in 2016, 123 women were killed by their companion, that 84,000 women are victims of rape each year? While it is estimated that in France, 53,000 women have undergone sexual mutilation and nine out of ten have been excreted before the age of ten? While 100 per cent of public transport users have experienced at least once gender-based and sexual violence? How can we be satisfied with so little, when 20% of working women are confronted with sexual harassment during their working life and one in five girls has been insulted online about their physical appearance? In the face of these horrific figures, we cannot, Madam Secretary of State, be content with four clauses in a bill. It is in response to these unresolved issues that my colleagues in the Republicans Group have tabled many amendments that we ask you to support. These include the release of victims' words, the protection of women in transportation, the protection of minors from excision, the criminalization of incest, the extension of the national register of perpetrators of sexual or violent offences, the fight against forced marriage and the punishment of sexual abuse of minors – all of which are not covered by the bill. Why not present to the National Assembly the bill adopted on 27 March by the Senate, which, while proposing the provisions contained in the bill, also defends the facilitation of the filing of complaints, the strengthening of awareness of sexual violence, the offence of non-denunciation of ill-treatment of minors, and so many other provisions that propose a real comprehensive vision of the subject, in contrast to the partial vision of this bill? I come to wonder whether the great cause of the quinquennium in favour of equality between women and men would not be limited to a mere dressing, to a simple political communication. It appears to be an unimplemented claim, as this bill is modest in comparison to the objectives pursued. It is for this reason that our colleagues in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure have already substantially amended it to strengthen it. So, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State, when are you going to carry out an ambitious policy to combat gender-based and sexual violence? When are you going to get out of communication and take action before such a great emergency? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We can only support this law, but also deplore its lack of ambition. We therefore invite you to support our amendments, which will enrich a text that is in great need of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u131	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, the chairman of the delegation for women's rights, whether they are physical or psychological, whether they occur in public places or within the family sphere, sexual and gender-based violence is multiple, varied and pervasive within our society. To speak only of rape, 250,000 people, including 60 per cent of minors, are victims of rape every year. Combating them is much more complicated than fighting any other form of violence, because the sense of guilt, the weight of mentalities and the influence of the entourage and society often interfere with the suffering of the victims and hinder them in the manifestation of the truth. If, still today, only 9% of the victims file complaints and if only 10% of these complaints lead to a conviction, it is good that the path remains long and tangled. Too many women, men and children in our country speak the same language: silence. Given the magnitude of the task ahead, the initiative of this bill, which is part of a formidable context of women's liberation, is welcome. This text in which many have placed their hopes, may disappoint or even worry some of us. It can certainly be accused of containing few provisions, or of addressing the fight against sexual and gender-based violence from a repressive perspective alone. There is also a question of whether a presumption of non-consent, as the Government had initially undertaken, should not be introduced or whether the new gender-based contempt created by the bill was actually effective. Nevertheless, it contains strong and meaningful measures, which can and must accompany the evolution of current attitudes. This text makes it clear that an adult who has been a victim of rape or sexual assault in his/her childhood is experiencing a deep trauma and must be able to seek redress years later. It also states that a remark or behaviour of a sexist or sexual, humiliating or degrading nature, summarized in the term "street harassment", or online harassment, is not annoyance and must be repressed. Above all, it reaffirms that the victims have no responsibility for the violence they have suffered, that such violence is unacceptable and that the perpetrators must be punished accordingly. Thanks to its Article 1, the extension of the statute of limitations, long defended in vain by parliamentarians under the previous legislature, in particular by the UDI Group, will finally come into being; We can only rejoice. However, we have all heard the poignant testimonies of victims who, suffering from traumatic amnesia, were only years later aware of the aggression or crime they had suffered, sometimes too late in the eyes of justice to obtain redress. While article 1 allows for an end to this intolerable situation for a number of victims suffering from traumatic amnesia, the risk of a lack of a criminal response does not completely disappear. On this subject, I hope that we have an opportunity to discuss the postponement of the starting point of the deadline: that is the meaning of an amendment that I have tabled. With regard to sexual offences against minors, as referred to in article 2, the Government proposes a more protective mechanism in order to deduce from the abuse of vulnerability of the victim a component of the aggression. This article will probably be the one that will debate the most in the coming session. For my part, I believe that the wording finally adopted overcomes constitutional obstacles, while meeting the objective of strengthening the criminalization of sexual assaults and rapes committed against minors. In addition to the increased penalties, to which the easing of the definition of moral or sexual harassment and the creation of the offence for gender-based contempt contribute, it is an ambitious policy to raise awareness of the whole society that we need, in the terms used, in February 2018, by the Senate working group on offences against minors. Combating such violence requires better prevention, support and protection of victims. To educate future generations is to fight these violences at the root. Our colleagues Sophie Auconie and Marie-Pierre Rixain, authors of an information report on rape, whose excellence I would like to acknowledge, referred to this prevention through education. While our legislation already provides for compulsory information and education on sexuality, it is only too little implemented. There is an urgent need to ensure that this education is effectively provided to every student and that every teacher really benefits from awareness-raising activities on domestic violence, violence against women and mechanisms of psychological influence in his or her training curriculum. We must also pay attention to the improvement of the mechanisms for the protection of victims, which are still too many to denounce the way in which their complaints are received. The expression and consideration of their words must be promoted, facilitated and encouraged. Finally, I cannot conclude my remarks without briefly referring to the case of the overseas countries and territories. In March 2017, a report of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council revealed that violence against women is more prevalent in overseas communities, particularly in Pacific communities. New Caledonia is breaking very sad records, as violence is seven times higher than in metropolitan France. While most of the replies provided fall within the competence of those Territories, I would like to alert the Government to the need to ensure the generalization of investigations and protective measures not yet available to them, such as the Virage Inquiry, the Serious Danger Phone or emergency support for victims. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] In conclusion, although I expect our debate to enrich this bill, like the work in the law commission, I assure you that this bill will ultimately be the subject of a broad consensus for what it represents, namely, a real step forward in the fight against sexual and gender-based violence in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u133	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u134	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, two verdicts of the Court of Assizes have caused shock and have shed a raw light on a massive phenomenon and a reality all the more painful as it is too often silent. The commitments at the highest level of the State, the multiple expertises and missions, a new citizen Tour de France have aroused immense expectations and highlighted the urgent need for a comprehensive response to combat sexual and gender-based violence. The idea has thus become widespread that 2018 would be a landmark year to strengthen the protection of minors, who account for nearly 60 per cent of rape victims. Of course, we are not starting from anything, neither on the criminal level – many offences already exist – nor on that of the accompanying and preventive measures – not to mention, of course, the untiring action and dedication of the associations! But reality is there, and it is formidable. Sexual violence remains very low in court: 10 per cent of victims file complaints, 1 per cent of rapes result in a conviction. Blind points of law, psychological trauma, inadequate reception of victims, fear, shame: the causes are increasingly well documented. Similarly, it is recognized that, in order to be decisive, responses must go far beyond the penal framework and address in a preventive and educational way fields as different as the world of work, audiovisual content, advertising and, from now on, social networks. In addition, these responses will have to incorporate the necessary care of the aggressors. Let us be certain, ladies and gentlemen, that we will remain very attentive in this respect to the implementation of measures for real equality between men and women and measures to support victims. At present, however, the main challenge is to strengthen the protection of minors from the criminal point of view in the face of sexual violence, while respecting the constitutional guarantees. This is the meaning of Article 2 and, to judge by the successive texts which it has already given rise to, the search for balance is a delicate exercise which must encourage a certain humility. Violence against minors constitutes an absolute violation of the rights of the child. This conviction must lead to seeking their absolute or, at least, maximum protection. Hence my first question: Is the latest formulation of article 2, which aims to strengthen the protection of minors under fifteen years of age, based on the central question of their ability to discern, sufficient to achieve this maximum level of protection for all minors under fifteen years of age? My second question concerns the creation of a new age limit at the age of 13. For all child protection associations as well as for medical experts, but also for a body such as the High Council for Equality, a minor under the age of thirteen is a child, whose protection requires a clearly stated prohibition. Contrary to what you have repeatedly suggested, Madam Secretary of State, this is neither a setback nor a lower level of protection. Far from removing the 15-year threshold, it is instead a matter of supplementing it with two new offences, in order to strengthen protection when it comes to a child under 13 years of age. Has this hypothesis been submitted to the opinion of the Council of State? Is it constitutionally possible, or has the only prospect of a priority issue of constitutionality led to its exclusion? The correction of rapes – only 3% are tried in court – whose consequences for the victims are far from negligible, is very often denounced. That is why the inclusion in the law of the sub-question of sexual assault, which legalizes a practice already under way in the courts, as well as the creation of a new offence of sexual assault with heavier penalties, raise concerns that there is no real challenge in this area. Our responsibility here is to remove all the ambiguities of the current legislation, without creating new ones. It is all the more important because of the need to pursue old, but now intolerable, behaviours, and new challenges: the emergence, via the Internet, of new forms of sexual and gender-based violence requires adaptation, but also to anticipate criminal responses. Online harassment, digital raids have become the standard examples of these new digital assaults, of which girls are the main victims. Article 3 has the merit of opening the way by providing for criminal sanctions. But the fight against cyber-violence requires, again, comprehensive and urgent action to the extent to which these massive phenomena are spreading. It is not insignificant that the 2016 Virage investigation did not integrate this dimension. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] I will conclude by asking you to take into account the overseas countries and territories beyond Article 5, so that we do not have to fight, in addition, the fight against budgetary means.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u135	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u136	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here on one of the most sensitive subjects that we will have to deal with during the parliamentary term and of which, basically, few Members have to debate in a lifetime. It is about the human in what he has most precious; It's also about the unspeakable; and it's about love. It is about education, in the violence of our time, which destroys until the idea of the family, and sometimes even of living together. It is about the transmission of knowledge, all that our great country has been able to bring, beyond the seas, mountains and oceans. This transmission of knowledge must be exercised in the mixing of a globalization of which we do not yet know the limits and which will certainly end up being a good thing. It is also the part of irrational, unforeseeable, unreadable that there can be in every human being. I will vote for this text, because the very fact of speaking about this subject, in a great country like ours, is something great and beautiful. I do not know whether it was you, the minister, or our colleague from La France, who recalled the vote in Spain so long ago. I was in Spain at that time: while this country was living extraordinary things, I was totally amazed to see the calm in which these debates took place. That didn't surprise me so much. I had already returned to France when I learned that this text had been voted unanimously. Two flashes come back to me a lot. First of all, this text concerns each and every one of us: who has not learned, at least once in his life, with astonishment and surprise, that such a woman had died after having suffered, day after day, night after night, violence and crime? I also remember cars that, one day, in front of me, on a long straight line, slowed down and then restarted in front of a dreadful spectacle: a woman totally derailed. While I was carrying her to the police station, despite her supplications of not doing so, I saw the eyes that accompanied our advance. I also remember the behaviour of an individual in the subway, under the eyes of dozens of people – I had not paid immediate attention to him. I then saw the immeasurable cowardice that can be displayed by the human race. For my part, I simply made the usual recommendations and I act such that a man must act. Yes, it is difficult, and I will vote for this text. But we are talking about crimes and the cohort of great suffering that can be imposed with crime. I just want to warn you that we are also talking about love, and the transmission of knowledge, and the construction of man. It's not just women who died under the blows. I just want to ask all of you what you'd feel if you ever read again this morning on the basis of many rumours?... Would you shake Mr. Lassalle's hand? Will you say hello? No, I trust the justice of my country. It is an exceptional subject, in which I honour myself to participate, but as it settles, while it will change, I also believe, deeply the nature of human relations, beware of rumors – because a crime that is not a crime, it is also a crime.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u137	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u138	Mr President, Ministers, Presidents, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, like many of you, I am not one of those who like to legislate overly. In the fight against gender-based and sexual violence, many are not within the purview of the legislature. It is an issue of civilization, through education, prevention, awareness-raising, a mobilization of all the actors of public and associative life necessary to make real progress. We have to legislate, to be useful, whenever we identify gaps or grey areas in our law, whenever faced with situations that are unbearable to us, we have said to ourselves: "But is this really the rule of law? What does justice do? This is where society needs the legislator. To better protect all these adults who have retained the fragility of childhood and who have spoken through Flavie Flament's voice. For these girls, it could have been estimated that at the age of 11, they could have consented to sexual intercourse with an adult. For the thousands of Amanda Todd in France, these teenagers are victims of a new form of harassment via the anonymity and violence of social networks. For all of us, ladies, who are adopting avoidance strategies, phone by hand and head down, to escape street harassment, because unfortunately, a sidewalk is not a neutral place. These situations are unbearable to us, and we must react, without casting reproach on the forces of law and order or on the magistrates, without daring to consider that they would yield to ease in such difficult and painful situations, but admitting that it is up to us to arm them better and to give them the means to effectively sanction all these acts that we can no longer tolerate. That is the purpose of this bill. Because a victim's traumatic memory can be triggered later, perhaps because it will recognize himself in the innocence of his child who has become a teenager, we will place the statute of limitations on crimes against minors at thirty years of age from the age of majority. Because we cannot participate with impunity in the collective humiliation of a person via the Internet, we will punish cyber-harassment. Because there is no freedom to import into our country, we will create a new offence, sexist outrage, to combat street harassment. On this last point, I would like to commend my colleagues in the trans-party working group who have carried out four months of work to prepare this text and propose a contravention that defines a red line, a new ban, and guarantees the freedom to go and come from all. Finally, because an adult cannot have a sexual relationship with a minor under the age of 15 with impunity, we will double the criminal sanctions for sexual assault, which is and will remain an offence, and we will affirm that a child under the age of 15 is a vulnerable being, that abusing it is neither more nor less than rape, which is and will remain a crime. I repeat: we will state in the law that abusing the vulnerability of a minor under the age of 15 is characteristic of rape, which is a crime and not a crime. There is no setback in this bill, no decriminalization, but a strengthening of the repressive arsenal and the means on which a judge will be able to rely to qualify rape as a child. Let me stress this point, because on the subject of sexual violence against minors, we are dealing with a sensitive subject on which there is a great deal of misunderstanding on the part of our fellow citizens, who do not necessarily know the different criminal qualifications and what they entail. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Our role is to make the law, but also to explain it, and not to maintain, in a partisan approach, a confusion which ultimately does not harm the Government or the majority, but rather the victims, who cannot know the extent of their rights if the politicians themselves cause confusion in their minds. For in the end, in all this, it is not about us, nor about our partisan postures. It is not a question of marking the history of the seal of our action, of showing a pseudo-political courage by adopting provisions that we know are well known that they will be rejected by the Constitutional Council in a few weeks – or worse, in a few years on the occasion of a QPC, as was unfortunately the case for sexual harassment, leaving the victims in a legal vacuum during a trial. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is a matter of acting with utility, conscience and responsibility, for the victims above all, and for the triumph of our rule of law. That is political courage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u139	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, the chairman of the delegation for women's rights, I will tell you straight away: this text to combat sexual and gender-based violence could, should have, have been a great text in line with what can be expected from a great cause of a quinquennium. The statements of the President of the Republic, your statements, ladies and gentlemen, the invigorating announcements, all led him to believe! But it must be noted that, like all politics under the Macron era, everything is only a communication effect, and in the end, the mountain will only give birth to a tiny mouse. For what is found in this text announced by so many drums and trumpets? In article 1, a modest increase in the statute of limitations for crimes of a sexual or violent nature committed against minors, while a real ambition in this regard would have been to make them imprescriptible, in the same way as crimes against humanity – for what is a sexual crime against a child, so fragile and so innocent, if not a crime against humanity? You will object, as you did in committee and in your opening remarks, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that such a measure would be subject to censorship by the Constitutional Council. Well, be it! Let's take the risk! The game is worth it: let us have the courage to carry this political message that such atrocities against children are attacks on humanity as a whole! Article 2 is a missed opportunity. We were told that the Criminal Code defines an age below which sexual intercourse with an adult would constitute rape. Account must be taken of the child's obvious lack of discernment, which does not allow him or her to consent to the act. The debate had already taken place in our country to find out what that age should be, this question being a real question of society. But here too, you have turned back, if I may say, with a few clarifications, which could be described as semantics, of the penal code. Article 3 provides for the extension of the offences of sexual harassment and harassment to include "digital raids" even when each of the perpetrators has not acted repeatedly. This extension is welcome, as it is the right one to take into account new forms of digital harassment that are often the victims of our young people. Section 4 creates what has been presented as the flagship measure of this bill, a new offence, "sexist contempt", punishable by a fourth-class fine or even a fifth-class fine in case of aggravating circumstances. However, it should be borne in mind that, under articles 34 and 37 of the Constitution, the determination of contraventions and the penalties applicable to them is a matter of regulation. The Government could therefore simply have introduced it by decree, but it once again preferred to create a communication effect in order, presumably, to mask the inanity of this bill. Finally, where are the measures that will facilitate, encourage and incite rape victims to file a complaint against their aggressor? How can this frightening figure of 13% of rape victims who file complaints be changed? What measures in your bill will allow the young student to file a complaint against the son of a good family who raped her following a slightly watery student evening, without her fear of being fingered, and to move from being a victim to being an easy girl, a prickly girl or a versatile, in short, guilty person? None! What measures, in your bill, will encourage the mother of a family of united appearance and satisfied to file a complaint against that spouse, husband, the companion who turns, once the door of the chamber closed, into a sexual predator? None! What measures, in your bill, will facilitate or rather mitigate the second type of violence involved in bringing a complaint against a sexual attacker, especially when a woman is a woman and there is a risk that someone who can symbolize the attacker, that is, a man, may have to tell her abominable ordeal? None! These few examples, which are far from school assumptions, show if necessary how much this text misses its target and remains very timid in relation to the magnitude of the task to be accomplished. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is therefore truly with affliction that we can only note that display and communication are the key words of this text that deserved much better.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u141	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u142	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Chair of the Committee, Madam Chair of the Delegation to Women's Rights, Mrs Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic has made equality between women and men a "major cause of the quinquennium". This has become evident. This is a major concern of the French and French, which we had highlighted by going to meet them during the Great March in spring 2016. This is a subject that we have defended throughout the campaign and that you are carrying on a daily basis, Madam Secretary of State, with the support of the majority. This fight for equality is being fought at all levels, in all walks of life, be they family as professionals, public as well as private, rural as well as urban. It affects all generations and has repercussions in every gesture of our daily life. It's a struggle of every moment. The text we are considering today is important. Yet it does not say everything about the policy and the commitments made over the past year on equality between women and men. 824 workshops, 55,000 participants, including 70% of participants, the Tour de France de l'égalité that you organised is the largest citizen consultation ever conducted in the country on equality between women and men. You've taken all the action by committing yourself to key issues. You generalize the presence of equality-harassment referents in schools for the 2019 school year. You are developing a national network of mentors across France to double the number of women entrepreneurs. You significantly increase the female audience in all sectors affected by social inclusion clauses. You have also made a commitment to set up a local contract against violence in each department, signed by the prefects with the emergency workers, social workers, elected, to facilitate the sharing of alerts and train the agents in the detection of violence. This provision is particularly important to me, because it is largely based on the protocol set up in Charente, and more particularly in my constituency in Angoulême, and of which I can testify to the effectiveness, as an emergency doctor before being elected last year. This will also be accompanied by the development of a platform for the geolocation of victim shelters, to enable associations and police and gendarmerie services to offer victims safe places in their departments. It is an effort to cooperate and train all actors involved in the care of victims that the delegation for women's rights calls for in its report on this bill. On equality, as on all subjects, we are once again demonstrating that we are in line with reality, that we are able to look for the right ideas where they are and to implement them in order to advance our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u143	It's pure genius...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u144	These non-legislative measures are inextricably linked to the text that we are about to consider. This bill strengthens the legislative framework for combating sexual and gender-based violence, which primarily affects women and minors. It allows victims of such acts to be recognized and protected, to be prosecuted and punished. It puts an end to too frequent situations of impunity which, due to insufficient statute of limitations or limited and dated legal definitions, were not worthy of a great modern democracy such as France. It takes to heart the challenges posed by our world with the explosion of cyber-harassment and new forms of violence linked to social networks, which wreak havoc at all ages and in all walks of life: the Internet is an area of freedom, but cannot be an area of lawlessness. Finally, it creates a new legal category to qualify and punish gender-based violence in public spaces and "street" harassment. Seven out of ten women between the ages of 20 and 24 living in Île-de-France claim to be victims of violence in public spaces over the past 12 months. In public transport, 267,000 people, 85 per cent of whom are women, report having been sexually abused. It's not tolerable! Moreover, the Law Commission had usefully enriched the Government's text with provisions specifically aimed at harassment in transport. Today we are taking an important step, but this fight, as I said, is daily. Our task is immense, but be assured, Madam Secretary of State, that we are at your side to meet the challenge. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The need for awareness is imperative. "Sir, this is not trivial. Sir, she doesn't want to. Ma'am, it's not a fatality. Madame, in France, in 2018, you can dress as you wish and move freely. Madam, sir, as far as equality between women and men is concerned, we must not let anything go! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u145	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this very rich general discussion, which gives us a glimpse of all the proposals that will be made during the debate and the elements on which we will have to come back. I would like to respond to a few of you, who have raised issues that have particularly challenged me. First of all, I thank Mr Houbron, for whom this text meets the expectations of society. I agree with Mr. Stéphane Viry when he says that the law must necessarily be clear and effective, but I am not, on the other hand, when he considers it to be a law of circumstance. No, honourable Member, this text is not a law of fact arising out of a particular judicial matter. It is the result of a comprehensive political will, in which it forms part of clear and precise provisions concerning the criminal punishment of a number of offences. I would also like to mention Mrs Florennes' remarks, who briefly presented the three amendments that MODEM will defend. Of course, we will respond to each of them – I will not do so now in detail. Just know that the question of the irrefragable presumption for the under thirteen and the simple presumption for the thirteen-five years, we will come back to it, carries a high risk of unconstitutionality. I am not developing any further, Marlène Schiappa will have the opportunity to do so tomorrow by responding to the amendments to Article 2. Auconia referred to the case of the young Angelique by saying that she was surrounded by deafening silence. I cannot accept such remarks: we have spoken together, of course, respecting our positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u147	I was talking about the continuum of violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u148	All right, Mrs. Auconia! I understood...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u149	All right. When you spoke on the motion for referral to committee, you referred to the automated national judicial file of perpetrators of sexual or violent offences, FIJAIS, set up in 2004 – I remind you that, in the Angélique case, the respondent was of course included in it. Perhaps I misunderstood you, but it seems to me that you have said things that are not entirely accurate about it. I remind you that FIJAIS is directly accessible to many people – magistrates, investigators, prefects. On the other hand, mayors and presidents of territorial authorities may know, through the prefects, the data it contains concerning any person they would like to use. It should therefore not be said that FIJAIS is not accessible: it is. The opportunity for full openness is, however, a real question for our rule of law. I don't think you're defending it, but it seems to me that you've underestimated the number of people who can access it. I do not go into details, but I repeat, this file is accessible to a large number of people. Finally, I would like to point out that since 1998, persons registered with FIJAIS may be subject to socio-judicial supervision, authorized by a judge, and that such follow-up may include measures to order care. If they are not followed, the person can return to prison. Follow-up is therefore quite serious. You concluded, Madam Member, by saying that the Government had given hope and that we had an obligation not to disappoint that hope. I believe that the whole policy led by Secretary of State Schiappa and this text on sexual offences is intended to restore hope, as we will have the opportunity to tell you throughout the debate. Beyond all your comments, Mrs Karamanli, I am replying to a particular point. You stressed the presence, with this text, of a criminal component alongside public policies. That is quite correct: there is this text, and all the public policies carried out by Mrs Schiappa and the other ministers. On the other hand, I don't share your questions. You fear less repression of rape because of greater correction: this is exactly the opposite of what we want to do! We must take note of the reality, Madam Member: today, many rapes are, in fact, corrected for a lot of reasons, either because the evidence has not been gathered...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u150	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u151	... either because the trial period before the Court of Assizes is extremely long – which is due to the same procedure before the Court of Assizes – and in this case, many victims, even perpetrators, prefer correction to benefit from a faster judgement. By facilitating the characterization of rape for children under 15 years of age, we can on the one hand better punish rape as crimes and, on the other hand, we will ensure, through various provisions that will be included in the law on programming and reform for justice, that these rape crimes can be tried more quickly by departmental criminal courts. I think it's very important. With our law, in the Pontoise case – since the question was asked a moment ago – the prosecutor's office would probably have initiated a direct prosecution for rape by considering the moral constraint characterized by the lack of discernment of the minor related to her young age. It is therefore clear how extremely useful our text will be, including for magistrates. In a way, I responded to Ms.Taurine by responding to Ms.Autain, but I will tell her, since she referred to a media bill, that it is anything but the media: it focuses on penal provisions aimed at making our repressive arsenal more effective. This is the only objective of a project that is really anything but media! I believe that the media coverage may be due to the dissemination of incorrect comments on this text. Mrs Faucillon, like other Members, highlighted the victims. This is one of our strongest concerns. It is not necessarily reflected in this text, although the intensified repression of these crimes is favourable to the victims. Many other provisions are also in favour of victims: I am thinking of the role of associations, of improving reception practices in police stations through training, the development of listening practices – we will have the opportunity to come back – to the Grave Danger Phone, which Marlène Schiappa spoke about earlier. All of this is aimed at improving the care of victims, which is largely driven by prosecutors and presidents of high-level courts as presidents of the department's Access to Law Councils, who are largely responsible for these tasks. One or one of you – perhaps you, Mrs Bello, I don't know anymore... – referred to the protection orders. I recall that they are implemented by associations after the decisions of magistrates – the judges in family affairs – and, contrary to what I have understood, that they are very numerous, especially in certain jurisdictions such as the TGI of Bobigny. I just want to say that the issue of victims is central to us. Mrs Fontenel-Person, you are right to say that the law will better pursue the various crimes or offences such as cyber-harassment: indeed, this text adapts to the reality of harassment today – this is one of the characteristics of this text desired by Marlène Schiappa. Mrs Anthoine, you know that we cannot share your feeling. You thought you had to stress the lack of ambition of this text, particularly in relation to the 1998 law. You say that we cannot be content with such a modest text even though the stakes are great. But this text is not modest! It is centered on real, it is centered on efficiency, it is centered on what we need! I repeat: there is the ambition of this law, and the ambition of public policies defended by the State Secretariat for Gender Equality and by all ministries! This is an extremely coherent whole. There is also the criminal policy led by the Ministry of Justice – which plays an important role in this area – and led by prosecutors. I would like to remind you that the fight against gender-based and sexual violence is one of the priorities of the criminal policy that I have defined in my circulars since my assumption of office, and in particular in my latest policy circular to prosecutors. This theme is expressly included. Finally, Mrs Anthoine, with regard to the strengthening of the tools available to prosecutors, I would like to add that the criminalization of violence resulting in mutilation already punishes the perpetrators of excision for 15 years. It therefore does not seem useful to mention again, in the law that we are proposing to you, offences that are already largely punishable under the Penal Code. Mr Dunoyer, I obviously share your double assertion. You say that the path to condemnation is sore: it is true, we know it, and that is why we are acting, in practice and through articles of law. But I think you are also right, and I thank you, that this text represents a real step forward in the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. Mrs Bello, you have asked two questions which I have been very attentive to, with regard to Article 2. I do not want to preempt the debate that will take place tomorrow, but I still want to say a word about it. While recognizing that the balance we seek is very difficult to achieve, you wonder if this writing is enough to protect the young people we want to protect. Yes, I really think that the wording that we propose to you, which is extremely chiseled and extremely adapted to the state of our law, is sufficient. And that is what we will strive to demonstrate to you tomorrow. You also wonder, if I have understood correctly, whether we would have had a presumption of non-consent for the thirteen-year-olds. I believe that this solution, to which I acknowledge that I myself had thought for a while, would not have been constitutionally satisfactory. Let me read you an excerpt from the opinion given by the Council of State: "Such a presumption would have been very difficult to reconcile with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council which, outside the scope of the offence... only exceptionally admits the existence of a presumption of guilt in criminal matters. The Council of State adds: "In order for it to be judged constitutional, it must not be irrefragable and must ensure respect for the rights of the defence. The opinion further states that, in the case of a crime, the same presumption would "most certainly have exceeded the reasonable limits within which the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms enshrines the presumptions of law or fact in criminal matters, given the seriousness of the issue and the difficulty in practice for the respondent to defend himself. » This opinion of the Council of State suggests that the only possible solution is the legal solution that we have chosen. Mr Lassalle, in essence, your speech had the merit of showing how much concern for the rule of law must prevail in all circumstances. Mrs Avia, thank you for your speech, and in particular for your last sentences which, I find, echo perfectly what we are trying to do. You said that any confusion hurts the victims, and you're absolutely right. I believe that we must work together in this debate which is not easy, which is not a pure communication debate – and I know that many of you share this view – to have the intellectual honesty to present the rule of law as it is, and not as we dream. Otherwise, we will create confusion, and this confusion harms the victims. You were also right to say that the political courage is to accept and defend this rule of law. Mr Huyghe, I will not reply to you about the communication and poster campaign that you thought you had to denounce in our approach. I think I've already answered this: we're doing everything here, except for a communication and poster company. We are trying to build an enterprise of efficiency, reality, pragmatism and we are trying to give ourselves the means to finally be able to do justice to the victims. You're talking about a step backwards about Article 2. No, MP, it's not a step backwards, it's a step forward, really, that we're building. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Mr Mesnier, I believe that you have summed up the subject of our debate perfectly. This text does not tell us everything about the policy that has been in place for the past year on equality between women and men. This text says a part, an indispensable part, a part without which the rest may not have all the meaning it has. But all that remains exists, which is built by Mrs Marlène Schiappa's Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u152	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u153	Mrs Bérengère Poletti, the first speaker on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u154	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men, the great movement for the liberation of speech and the clamour that has been strongly raised in recent years on social networks are a call, a call for the fight against sexual and gender-based violence to finally be at the heart of the public debate. This general call for victims to be recognized and supported and perpetrators to be more severely punished led the President of the Republic to declare equality between women and men a major national cause of the quinquennium on 25 November. Today, of course, I can only welcome the initiative of this bill. However, I regret its superficiality. The hopes were high, and the disappointment is great in the face of a text finally cosmetic, of circumstance, and that gives the appearance of tackling the problem in order to make only the strict minimum. Article 1 of this bill provides, for example, for the extension of the public prosecution of crimes of a sexual or violent nature committed against minors to 30 years. Today, in metropolitan France, 3.7% of women and 0.6% of men report having been victims of rape or attempted rape, and I would like to recall that children are the main victims. Of the 6,500 complaints of rape of minors registered, only 10 per cent are tried in court, when traumatic amnesia or family omertà do not represent insurmountable obstacles to the recognition of such violence. These are primarily gender-based crimes committed primarily against children, women and persons in weak situations, and perpetrated in the context of power relations. This limitation period, therefore, still seems to be insufficient. In response to the Bill Cosby case, where many women victims of the actor had not had access to justice, while others had been able to avail themselves of it, the Governor of California ratified, on September 28, 2016, a law abolishing the statute of limitations for sexual crimes. The U.S. state joined Britain, Canada, or Switzerland, which also chose to make crimes of a sexual or violent nature imprescriptible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u156	Many similar cases have taken place in France – I am thinking for example of the facts involving tennis coach Régis de Camaret or gynaecologist André Hazout. All of the perpetrators were sentenced to heavy sentences, but some of the victims were unable to file civil suits because of the statute of limitations. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This inequality of treatment is no longer justifiable and I ask for a little courage and common sense to make this bill a real step forward in effectively combating sexual and gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u157	Mrs Bérangère Couillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u158	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this Article 1 shall extend the limitation period for sexual or violent crimes against minors from twenty to thirty years after the age of majority. Personally, I was in favour of imprescriptibility. The violence of such an act on a young person, the dramatic consequences and the hardships to be overcome are such that it should be possible for all victims to put the perpetrators of these atrocities before a court, so that they may be held accountable, at any time in their lives. Why extend this limitation period? Because traumatic amnesia prevents the victim from remembering the assault and because it is sometimes particularly difficult for her to file a complaint, especially in cases of incest. Victims often wait to be adults, to have built their lives, sometimes to have children, a job, to feel able to judge the rape they experienced when they were children. But first and foremost, the current situation needs to be improved. A consensus mission, co-chaired by Flavie Flament and Justice Jacques Calmettes, conducted hearings for several months. This work must be recognized. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I have heard and understand the arguments that have been put forward in the last few days by the Secretary of State and the rapporteur, and that is why I will vote in favour of this article. I will vote for it, because the extension of the statute of limitations from twenty to thirty years represents a significant step forward, concrete and especially applicable to a greater number of victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u159	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u160	"Strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence", everything is said: goodwill, which I want to emphasize, but also ambiguity. The need, the demand to fight more effectively against these rapes, these violences, which are nothing but crimes, but also posture. Yes, of course, the limitation period must be extended, as proposed in Article 1. Yes, we have to give more time to the victims. Yes, it is necessary to allow minors not to be victims of a kind of double punishment: to be the object – that is the word – of their executioner and not to be able, because of a traumatic amnesia, as the explanatory memorandum says very well, to obtain justice, for lack of having obtained grace. This amendment is essential to allow more time for victims to lodge complaints and to facilitate the repression of such acts, because, as you said, Madam Minister, a sexual crime differs from other ordinary crimes. This text, however, presents an ambiguity, because it is, unfortunately, in part an unbalanced law. Unbalanced, because the extension of the statute of limitations, if it is a step forward for the victims, is counterbalanced by an unfortunate article 2, which does not fulfil the promises you had made to us. It must be said and translated into law: when you are under fifteen years of age, there can be no real consent. Lack of maturity and discernment are realities that we must take into account. Setting what everyone will call a kind of sexual majority should be a protection for our children, and an additional threat to those who would be tempted to abuse it. Let us never forget that this is about our children, their safety, their innocence and ultimately their future lives. These are subjects that call for nothing but a firmness without appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u161	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u162	Section 1 of the bill is part of this broad legislative movement, which has only extended, for the last 20 years, the statute of limitations for public action, particularly for sexual offences, by successive reforms. This movement has the favors of opinion and parliamentarians, who feel that they are working for the common good by reconciling the law and their understandable indignation. However, there is a growing pool of legal professionals who are concerned that proceedings may be initiated long after the facts, with serious risks of frailty of the proceedings, as a result of the loss of evidence. Many of these cases are accumulating in the courts, without a real chance of success, due to the lack of sufficient evidence. At the end of these procedures, non-places, relaxations and acquittals end up despairing the victims. I will therefore propose the deletion of Article 1. I'm well aware of going against the current of the air of time. And yet, I am a woman, and a mother. I have no indulgence towards sexual predators, but I do not believe that we are making good texts under the influence of emotion – the emotion following the Weinstein affair or the Pontoise affair – even if they are part of a political will. I am reinforced in my reservations by the recent petition of radical feminists demanding the withdrawal of clause 2 of the bill. This petition, written in inclusive writing, tends to criminalize consensual sexual relations – I say "consented" – between a 15-year-old and a 18-year-old. I want to warn our assembly against the emergence of a new moral order, which would no longer take the clothes of religious fundamentalism, but rather the amazements of Victorian neopuritanism. The education of the youngest boys and girls, the information of the public, a better reception of the victims, your public policies, Madam Secretary of State, will be more effective than the extension of the statute of limitations to reduce the alarming level of sexual violence suffered by the most vulnerable, first and foremost by minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u163	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u164	First of all, I would like to commend the Government's commitment to combating sexual and gender-based crime. The numbers, known, are overwhelming. According to the High Council for Equality between Women and Men, tens of thousands of women were victims of rape, but only one in ten complained. Only one in ten complaints arrived before the courts and resulted in a conviction. The tightening of the penalties and procedures advocated by the bill is therefore justified not by a concern for repression, but by the sanctity of the right of the person to respect. The consequences of rape can be dramatic, we have repeatedly repeated it here. Physical aggression by definition, but also moral, psychological, its effects can be felt throughout a lifetime. This bill aims to better protect women and minors under the age of 15. If we do not believe in universal wisdom, we hope that it will have a deterrent effect. Indeed, it is unforgivable that lives are ruined by a trauma that the victims carry inside them as an injury that has never been healed. We will support the text by proposing amendments to the margin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u165	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill that strengthens the fight against sexual and gender-based violence includes much-anticipated measures, particularly with regard to the statute of limitations on sexual crimes, since when this law is enacted, the maximum age for public action will be 48 years old instead of 38 years today. This subject has already been discussed at length in this House under the previous legislatures, and I have a thought for our former colleague Jean-Paul Garraud, who has worked a great deal on these issues. Extending the statute of limitations is a positive signal for the victims, because it takes time for the word to be released, for painful memories to resurface. Together with my colleague Gilles Lurton, we want these heinous crimes committed against minors to be imprescriptible. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I have several questions for you. What are your plans to better train investigators and to ensure that complaints are no longer closed as quickly as they are today? What do you intend to do to prevent and detect child abuse as quickly as possible? Together with my colleagues in the Republicans Group, we are fiercely opposed to the correction of rapes. It is not for the victims to adapt to the slow pace of justice, which suffers from a lack of human and technical resources. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Will you reform the premises to shorten the deadlines? Finally, can you commit yourself to ensuring that the sentences imposed on sexual criminals are fully met, without remission of sentence for good conduct and without punishment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u167	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u168	The statute of limitations in criminal matters corresponds to the termination of public proceedings after a certain period of time since the day of the offence. It is based on the principle of a form of right to be forgotten and on the more pragmatic idea of a loss of evidence. It is also a means of punishing public inaction and thus encouraging a judgement within a reasonable time. The Act of 27 February 2017 doubled the statutory statute of limitations for crimes and offences to six years for offences and twenty years for crimes. But it has also, in fact, undermined the specificity of sexual crimes against minors, by maintaining the right of derogation from the statute of limitations at the age of 20. This lack of distinction between sexual crimes against minors and crimes committed against adults does not seem relevant or appropriate. That is why section 1 of the bill extends the statute of limitations from twenty to thirty years for sexual crimes committed against minors from the majority of the victims. I will support this article. This extension is in line with the recommendations of the consensus mission chaired by Ms Flavie Flament and Mr Jacques Calmettes, which stress the need to extend the statute of limitations to take better account of the many cases of traumatic amnesia that permanently prevent victims from filing complaints. Because of their age and often family ties with the perpetrator of the violence, minor victims may find themselves unable to reveal the violence and to report its perpetrators. This provision will also increase the prosecution of serial rape cases. Therefore, the extension of the statute of limitations for sexual crimes against minors is a just and indispensable development for the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u169	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u170	Article 1 of the Act extends to 30 years, instead of 20 years, the statute of limitations from the majority of the victim of crimes of a sexual nature or of certain acts of violence committed against minors. In fact, the complainant will be able to file a complaint until his or her 48th birthday. I am of course in favour of this article, which tends to extend the limitation period. The progress is real, but I regret the position taken by the Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men to reject the proposal we made with some colleagues, all political tendencies, to make this crime imprescriptible. A minor victim of sexual violence remains marked for life, while the culprit will be released, if he can be released one day, thirty years after the majority of his victim. To justify your refusal, Madam Secretary of State, you have sheltered yourself behind the position of the Constitutional Council: imprescriptibility would be reserved only for crimes against humanity and cannot be applied to other crimes. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the UDI-Agir group]] I regret this position, because this text should have provided you with an opportunity to take a strong political step towards all women and children who are victims of sexual violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u171	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u172	This article revises the statute of limitations for the prosecution of certain crimes committed against minors to 30 years, and freezes its point of departure by the majority of the victim. This consensus change is essential and major, since the 30-year statute of limitations is reserved for the most serious crimes – acts of terrorism and related offences, offences relating to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery or attacks on the person constituted by enforced disappearances, war crimes. Major still, as it responds to recommendations made for many years by no less than five bills between 2002 and 2014, and many amendments tabled in favour of either longer deadlines or imprescriptibility. Finally, major, because it retains its exceptional character by reserving it to crimes against humanity alone. Essentially, this thirty-year prescription considers realities that are sometimes difficult to reconcile, of a victim who is still suffering, who must become fully aware of the attacks against her, who must have the time to understand, absorb and overcome the phenomenon of traumatic amnesia and the reality of the erasure of evidence and memory or the weakening of testimony. It is preferable that imprescriptibility should not be retained, despite the inextricable situation experienced by the abused minors, not because the author must be granted the right to forget, but because it must be accepted that over time the chances of dismissal and acquittal increase, giving the victim the feeling of not being heard or believed – our colleague Laurence Vichnievsky reminded him. To grant this 30-year derogation for sexual crimes against fifteen-year-olds is finally to keep to the level of the most serious crimes committed against fifteen-year-olds, and it is to recognize the particular vulnerability of the victim who has had to learn to tame his fear, his shame, often even his guilt, or even a sense of enslavement or, worse, his emotional conflict with the feelings that he might have brought to his attacker. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This requirement therefore takes into account the psychological and physical consequences, in the short and medium term, of sexual crimes committed against minors, as well as the reasons which make it so difficult to free speech, still at 48 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u173	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u174	Article 1 is the one that satisfies us the most, in that it responds to a request that we have been making for many decades. It was time to extend the deadline. These additional ten years seem correct in that they allow us to take into account the phenomena of amnesia, the family context which can prevent the minor from becoming aware of the seriousness of the facts and from holding him to file a complaint. It was necessary to take into account the specific nature of such violence. We therefore agree with this proposal. However, we remain opposed to the imprescriptibility of these crimes, because of the limitations imposed by our French law in order to take account, precisely, of other specificities. We mustn't go so far. On the other hand, we will defend an amendment earlier to extend this extension to persons who were raped when they were adults. I'll explain it when the time comes. For the time being, I would like to reply to our colleague who has drowned in unpleasant confusion but, alas, common, feminist movements to which it seems always necessary to add the adjective "radical". We demand equality. You may consider this to be a radical movement in the sense that it takes the problem to the root, but I see nothing in it as questionable, contrary to the criticism underlying the adjective "radical". Most importantly, the term Puritanism is out of place. Puritanism refers to moral rigorism opposed to hedonism. However, we demand the idea that desire, pleasure, sexuality can flourish freely, fully, far from gender norms that prevent desire, pleasure and true sexual liberation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] This confusion in the interpretation of our demands as a feminist movement is terrible. We are mobilizing precisely to develop freedom, desire, which implies the liberation of women, but also the liberation of men from sexist and terribly sexual norms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u175	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u176	We must here, beyond emotion and indignation at sexual and gender-based violence, first and foremost legislate, provide a reasoned and graduated response to facts that remain heinous. If we make certain acts imprescriptible, we place them at the level of crimes against humanity, often committed by governments or groups against other human groups, through concerted, organized, large-scale murders or abuses. And then we erase any graduation from the penalty scale. Whatever the horror and the desire to punish the violence against minors inspires, we must take into account the reality. These crimes are, in most cases, committed by a close person against a close relative, not mass crimes. The statute of limitations extended to 30 years allows this child who has become an adult, emancipated from the coercion of his or her entourage, to lodge a complaint and to be treated in circumstances which still allow an investigation and trial against an alleged offender who is still alive. We have all heard or read, or unfortunately lived in our flesh, the physical or physiological consequences of rape, especially for a young child or adolescent. It seems to me that there is sometimes confusion between causes and consequences. It is indeed the cause of these ills, namely rape, which we must debate today. And it is a crime that we propose to extend the statute of limitations and to increase the penalties in a number of cases. The consequences mentioned, which should alert the family and social circle if the victim has not been able to report the crime, must be better taken into account in the accompaniment of the victims, it is obvious. For this to happen, the discovery or disclosure of the crime must take place within a time frame that also allows the aid and reparation process to begin as quickly as possible. We must take into account a necessarily difficult and fragile context for victims, who must receive the full attention and assistance of the community and their families. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the proposal to extend the period of limitation to 30 years seems to me to be the most balanced and effective solution. I will vote in favour of this article as proposed, and I encourage you to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u177	We come to the amendments. Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor to support Amendment No. 175.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u178	The statute of limitations for crimes committed against minors has been extended three times: in 1989, to set aside the limitation period for the majority of the victim when these crimes were committed by an ascendant or a person with authority, in 1998 to remove the limitation period from the majority of the victim, irrespective of the perpetrator, in 2004 to extend the limitation period from 10 to 20 years, from the majority of the victim. Today, therefore, the law allows for the prosecution of such crimes, even though they were committed up to 38 years earlier. This limitation period is already considerable in view of the risk of loss of evidence. As the legal professionals point out, the extension of the statute of limitations weakens the exercise of the public action: the physical evidence disappears and the testimonies are less and less reliable and precise. In the event of late prosecutions, which would be brought up to 48 years after the facts, according to section 1 e r of the bill, it will be very difficult to gather sufficient evidence to permit a conviction of the person in question or even to justify his or her referral to the assize court. Decisions to dismiss or acquit are likely to cause greater harm to victims than a failure to prosecute because of the statute of limitations on public action. Doubt must benefit the accused, the seriousness of the facts and the suffering of the victims cannot call this principle into question. Longer statute of limitations will not reduce crime and, in particular, will not protect our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u179	The rapporteur, Alexandra Louis, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u180	You are proposing the deletion of Article 1e r – you have previously stated that you are going against it: indeed, this article meets a real expectation by satisfying several concerns. The first is a requirement of consistency. You have referred to successive reforms in the area of statute of limitations, including the one in 2017, which removed the specificity of crimes committed against minors. Previously, the statute of limitations for such crimes was much longer than for ordinary crimes. This concern for consistency had to be met, especially since the statute of limitations for other offences, including drug offences, was thirty years. It was also necessary to respond to the phenomenon of traumatic amnesia, previously very little known. During the hearings, a neurologist and psychiatrists described the extent of this phenomenon and the effects it could have on the life of a person who will take a long time, months, or even years, before remembering the facts and being able to file a complaint to initiate public action. This is a real response to the victims' expectations. There is also little talk of a phenomenon other than traumatic amnesia, namely the grip, which makes people take time to verbalize the facts. Moreover, the public interest, that is, that of society, to initiate investigations, even years after the facts, following the complaint of victims, must be taken into account in order to prevent the harm of sexual predators that may occur throughout their lives. The committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, because we want to give victims the opportunity to sue until the age of 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u181	The Secretary of State has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u182	The Government's objective is to better take into account the difficulties of victims in revealing the facts, which is all the more important given that the victim is young and even more serious when the crimes have been committed in the family sphere or in close proximity to the minor. This development also reflects a better understanding of the mechanisms of traumatic amnesia, as well as advances in techniques for collecting, preserving and exploiting evidence. The extension of the statute of limitations to 30 years can therefore give the victims the time they need before they can bring to justice the violence they have suffered in order to begin the reconstruction process we have mentioned. Of course, there is no question of forcing the victims to judicialize the violence suffered. It is simply a question of giving them the opportunity to do so if they feel the will to do so. The victim's interest in this provision is really our priority. The last reform of the statute of limitations is recent, since the Fenech-Tourret law dates back to 27 February 2017. It increased the statute of limitations to 20 years for all ordinary crimes, including sexual crimes against minors. We wish to restore an additional 10-year statute of limitations for all crimes committed against vulnerable minors in view of the particular gravity of the facts. The bill therefore corrects the anomaly that exists since the 2017 reform in the hierarchy of penalties, by increasing the statute of limitations to thirty years, on the advice of the mission of consensus Flament-Calmettes. This derogation already exists for other crimes, such as acts of terrorism or drug trafficking. There is another reason for traumatic amnesia, for which it is important to extend the statute of limitations: when one has been a victim of sexual violence during his childhood or adolescence, one does not find the strength, suddenly, because one becomes a major, to judicialize the violence suffered. Even when one remembers very well the sexual violence that one has suffered, it is often necessary to start working, to integrate into society, to have begun to rebuild or even to build a personal life, before having the material and psychological strength to confront the judicialization of sexual crimes. That is why the Government expresses an unfavourable opinion on this amendment to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u183	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u184	Dear colleague, you wish to delete clause 1 of the bill, which we can understand from the fact that you are also speaking as a former magistrate. You thus anticipate the difficulties that the magistrates may encounter when they have, in front of the fierce will of the victims to see their rapist condemned, the heavy task of having to establish the truth when many evidence has disappeared. We do not deny these difficulties. However, you know as well as we do that the evidence can unfortunately disappear a few days or even only a few hours after the commission of a rape. So this element must not stop us, and it is elsewhere that we must look for ways to help judges – and especially the victims – to establish the facts. The extension of the statute of limitations is necessary for a better treatment of traumatic amnesia, which was mentioned by the Secretary of State and by the rapporteur. In 2017, the average age of first maternity is 30 years: the child of a woman who has been the victim of rape on a minor will therefore be an adult or adolescent when her mother is 48 years of age, the age at which the prescription will apply. Moreover, the refusal to extend the statute of limitations would mean that we would accept that these crimes against minors, which were covered by a specific regime until 2017, are only covered by ordinary law, even though the statute of limitations is thirty years in the case of terrorism or drug trafficking. On the contrary, we believe that the fight against violence against minors deserves much better than ordinary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u185	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u186	The aim of this amendment is to extend the statute of limitations from 20 to 30 years also for victims of sexual assault and rape. Violence, it was pointed out, as well as the trauma suffered by the victims, can lead to more or less temporary amnesia: this phenomenon is linked not to the age of the victim, but to the shock she suffered. These sequelae can be translated in different ways: Muriel Salmona has demonstrated, in many works, that the consequences on the physical, psychological and emotional integrity of such shocks can be visible on MRIs. The lesions are therefore strong and lasting. The mechanisms of emotional anesthesia, which mask facts to consciousness, can gradually rise, years after the facts. These phenomena, I repeat, do not depend solely on the age at which the victim has experienced rape. Children are not the only ones involved. That is why we urge adults to start the statute of limitations on the date of the rape commission. The extension of the statute of limitations should allow victims of major crimes to increase their access to justice. [[Applause on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Moreover, when rapes are perpetrated by a multi-recidivist on different women, a first complaint may trigger another one for older facts – the victim had not had the courage to file a complaint – which, however, cannot be taken into account because of the statute of limitations. It is well known that, while the difficulty of proof increases over time, it can arise not only 20 years, but sometimes only six months after the commission of the facts. On the other hand, the testimony of several women makes it possible to bring the trials to a better conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u188	We have discussed this amendment at length in committee, which aims at the scale of the various limitation periods, which is always difficult to prioritize. While Article 1 allows the inconsistency which the previous reform had brought about with regard to minors to be lifted, you propose extending the limitation period to 30 years for victims of major crime. I agree with you, traumatic amnesia also concerns adults. We do not dispute this evidence. However, the hearings – notably of a neurologist and a psychiatrist – convinced us that this phenomenon was more prevalent in minors, because the development of their brains is not that of an adult. Moreover, one must not forget the phenomenon of domination, which may represent an obstacle to the verbalization of the acts of which he was the victim in his childhood. In the case of such crimes, minors therefore need special protection. On the other hand, the statutory limitation period of 20 years in criminal matters seems sufficient to enable adults, given their maturity and the environment in which they operate, to reveal the facts and bring them to justice. That is why the committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u189	Mrs Nicole Belloubet, keeper of the seals, has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u190	The bill limits the lengthening of the statute of limitations on sexual and violent crimes to minor victims, in order to take into account their vulnerability and the phenomenon of traumatic amnesia, which affects them in a singular way. A minor may be delayed in his or her approach either by a lack of autonomy – a form of dependence on the aggressor – or because he or she does not fully measure the extent of the facts he or she has experienced, hence the need for an extended statute of limitations in his or her favour. Furthermore, while the phenomenon of traumatic amnesia may also involve a major, as you have noted, the situation of a minor is not quite comparable to that of a major, especially when the acts are committed within the family or in the environment of the minor. The conflict of loyalty to which the minor is exposed may constitute a real obstacle to the disclosure of the facts, sometimes for many years. Since minors are by nature subject to the authority of adults, it seems to me normal for them to have specific rules of limitation. When the victim is a major victim, the 20-year statute of limitations, which has replaced the ten-year statute of limitations since the February 2017 reform, seems sufficient. For all these reasons, this opinion is against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u191	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u192	The traumatic amnesia phenomenon has no age: a major like a minor can be subjected to it. This reason would therefore be sufficient to provide for the same period of limitation as for minors in the case of adult victims. Ms. Autain mentioned another very important point: the need to press charges. As I said in the general discussion, filing a complaint is a second violence for the person being raped, because it is a matter of telling the story, of reliving in front of a third party the trauma she has experienced. However, the fact that a person who has suffered the same acts on the part of the same perpetrator has the courage to file a complaint, to relive this violence, this trauma, can have a training effect. It seems important to me to allow the other victims to follow the movement set in motion – nothing is more traumatic than to be prevented from doing so! We all know that the question of evidence will arise at some point. In any case, as Ms. Autain has said, this problem will arise with the same severity six months after the facts or twenty or thirty years after the facts, but the possibility of filing a complaint is very important because it allows victims to obtain a small recognition. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] Madam seal keeper, if you do not want the prescription to be the same depending on whether the victim is a major or a minor, then there is a very simple solution, which is to adopt the amendments that we will be considering shortly and which propose the imprescriptibility of sexual crimes committed against minors. The distinction between adults and minors will then be very clear. Indeed, we consider paedophilia a crime against humanity. We'll have the opportunity to say it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u193	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u194	You have to be very honest: this is a difficult debate, which deals with issues that are no less so! I can see what the fate of our amendment will be, but this debate will come back. Let me insist on one point, Madam Keeper of the Seals. You stated that the situation was different depending on whether the victims were minors or adults; This difference is already incorporated into the current law, since the statute of limitations for a crime committed against a minor is twenty years from the age of eighteen years. If you have been the victim of sexual violence at the age of six, seven or ten, the statute of limitations – twenty years today, thirty years tomorrow – does not run from the date of the offence, but from the age of eighteen. Thus, our right already includes a specific time limit for minors. As you extend the statute of limitations for violence against minors by 10 years, you could have gone a step further and considered that these additional ten years could sometimes also be valuable to the major victims. We have not yet mentioned the case of domestic violence: some women who have been subjected to such violence for many years manage to escape and create links, but, when they reach the age of fifty, they may feel the urge to bring legal action. It is true that they still have the right to complain, but they feel a real shock when they hear that their initiative comes too late because of a prescription of public action. So we have to find the right tension. We therefore felt that it would also be possible to increase the statute of limitations for crimes committed against adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u195	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1209.u196	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9:30 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
