ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u2	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor to put his question, No. 434, on the treatment of detained patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u3	Madam Minister of Justice, my question concerns the difficulties encountered in the care of patients detained at the hospital in Lannemezan, in my constituency – an institution that you know well. During 2017, specialized hospitals in Lannemezan admitted eleven inmates to psychiatric care by decision of a state official – SDRE – for a total of eighty-two days of care. The implementation of this mission requires a considerable mobilization of the hospital's human resources: reopening of a secure room, the presence of four daily staff and the reinforcement of four additional staff at each stage of care. However, this mobilization of hospital staff is paradoxically accompanied by the closure of beds and the decrease in the number of agents: 17 fewer officers in 2017. The impact is significant in terms of safety. When a patient is admitted to ERDS, there is no protection or supervision on the part of law enforcement. The continuation under the present conditions of the reception of detained patients threatens the fulfilment of the primary mission of the hospital, which already struggles to take care of mental health throughout the department of Hautes-Pyrénées and the south of Haute-Garonne. I would therefore like to know your position on this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u4	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u5	Mr. MP, psychiatric care for detained persons is the responsibility of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. The Public Health and Social Welfare Act of 18 January 1994 transferred the organization and management of the health care of detained persons to the public hospital service. In a context of high prevalence of mental disorders in detention, as evidenced by the number of psychiatric hospitalizations of detained persons, which, between 2009 and 2016, increased proportionately faster than the criminal population over the same period – more than 15.3 per cent compared to more than 11 per cent – the care of the detained patient is a real problem. Inmates suffering from mental disorders can be hospitalized without consent in three types of facilities: in specially designed hospital units, UHSA – there are nine in the territory, for a total of 440 places of hospitalization; in a unit for difficult patients, UMD, where such persons " present a danger to others such as the necessary care, supervision and safety measures can only be implemented in a specific unit"; in a secure room within the hospital specializing in area psychiatry. However, hospitalisation in a secure room of detained persons may result from a default choice, due to the lack of UHSA places. The latter have increased security, with the daily presence of prison surveillance personnel, but some prisons are far removed from these structures, forcing them to find alternative solutions. In this context, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health have asked the General Inspectorate of Justice and the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs to carry out a joint audit of these situations, the results of which will be known in a few weeks' time. Indeed, the question of the custody of these sick prisoners – or of these sick prisoners – does not arise for placements in UHSA or in a secure interregional hospital unit, UHSI, since prison staff naturally perform this role in these institutions. The same applies to short-term medical extractions, for which the regulatory framework entrusts the monitoring function to the internal security forces. Your question therefore focuses on hospitalizations at the request of a government official, which concern inmates with a degree of danger but who cannot be assigned to UMD. This issue – which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health under the law – raises a real problem, as does the question of the continuity of care of a detainee who returns to detention after hospitalization. That is why we recently met with my colleague Christelle Dubos to reflect on the best ways to deal with these difficult issues. Beyond the UHSA report we are waiting for in a few weeks, and commitment 21 of the mental health roadmap, which will be dedicated to detained persons, we will consider all solutions to improve psychiatric care for detained persons, which is a real subject. First of all, there is a greater awareness of the prevalence of these disorders among the prison population. That is why, at the beginning of next year, we will initiate a scientific study on this issue to determine how many people are involved in this issue. As soon as this study is carried out, or even in parallel, we will consider concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u6	The next speaker is Mr Guy Teissier, to put his question, No. 447, on the noise pollution caused by the prison of Balmettes 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u7	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I wish once again to draw your attention to a problem which seems insurmountable and which exaggerates the residents of the Baumettes 2 prison in Marseilles – which you know for having been there not long ago. As you know, the women's prison is on the street side and the cells on the third and fourth floors are opposite the surrounding houses. Throughout the night, local residents are subjected to shouts, screams, insults, and even head music that make life unbearable for them. On the occasion of your visit to Marseille and your visit to the prison a few weeks ago, you indicated that an experimental device would be put in place as quickly as possible, before being generalized if it gave satisfaction. I would therefore like to know whether this device – which took time to launch – is already in place, and, if so, whether it proves to be useful and rational, and when all the work will be carried out. I'm not telling you, minister, that there's an emergency. We approach winter but, after spring, will come summer, high season of infernal nights for the residents. The surrounding population is impatient and hastening to question you. I would also like to know whether the experimental system will cancel the enhancement of the prison wall, which would permanently put an end to all these infernal nuisances and noises. The Neighbourhood Interest Committee, the population as a whole and the residents, all trends, as well as the elected representatives, would ardently like this last solution to be retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u8	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u9	As you pointed out, Mr. Teissier, I myself took full measure of the discontent and discomfort caused to the residents by going to the Balmettes. My department is working to address this issue and is making every effort to reduce these nuisances. Within the institution, we organized a firm disciplinary management of harassment to influence behaviour: identification of the authors, referral to the Disciplinary Board and assignment of identified inmates to less exposed areas. Since September 2017, the management of the institution has maintained a regular relationship with representatives of the Neighbourhood Interest Committee. The head of establishment receives a delegation from the community of residents about once a month. In terms of real estate, a series of measures relating to noise pollution were carried out in the neighbourhood, from 6 to 10 July, by the Public Agency for the Real Estate of Justice. On the basis of these surveys, two prototypes were installed on the windows of the most exposed buildings: in October, an acoustic grid was placed on a window, outside, as well as an acoustic probe to measure the results obtained; At the end of November, a specific window frame, consisting of a fixed part and an opening part equipped with a sound filter, was installed in a second cell. Tests are under way on these two processes. It is therefore two different technical options that are tested in order to have an effective solution that can be deployed on the high floors of the accommodation in order to minimize the nuisances suffered by the residents. The final results of the tests will be known by the end of the calendar year and the most effective solution will then be chosen. It will then have to be put into production, because it is custom-made, in order to allow a laying in the first half of 2019 – therefore before the summer. As for the proposal to upgrade the enclosure wall, it was removed after expertise due to strong urban, environmental and technical constraints, including wind exposure. I went to the Balmettes on October 26th. On this occasion, I presented these two proposals, which are currently being tested, to the representatives of the local residents' committee and to the mayor of the arrondissement of Marseille. As I said, the solutions will be operational before the summer. We have also, as part of the planned work on Baumettes 3, provided for a broad association of elected officials and residents, beyond what is required by the rules of public consultation. Thus, we intend to prevent the difficulties encountered earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u10	Mr Guy Teissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u11	Madam Minister, thank you for the progress you have just listed. You say that detainees caught in flagrante delicto are punished or even changed to a cell, but I would remind you that to communicate, you have to be two. Those who are outside are not punished and continue to come under the windows of these ladies, not to sing laments with a mandolin, but to shout things much less pleasant to hear. Thank you for the arrangements you intend to put in place. The borough mayor who has succeeded me is none other than my collaborator for twenty years and my deputy; I was therefore fully aware of your approach and regretted that I could not be present on the day of your arrival. Finally, even if you have nothing to do with it because it is your technical services that have declared it, the argument of exposure to the wind seems implausible to me: the walls are always, in one way or another, exposed to the wind, and I do not see what this one comes to do in this matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u12	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to raise his question, No. 450, concerning the Tribunal de grande instance de Montargis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u13	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to remind you of the worrying situation of the Montargis High Court, which is threatened in its very existence. This court, which is characterized by intense activity, is faced with a decrease in the number of staff. While its jurisdiction covers nearly 200,000 inhabitants, it faces a shortage of staff due to the departure of three magistrates – that of the president, who announced it a few weeks ago, that of the judge of the enforcement of sentences and even that of the investigating judge – in addition to a shortage of clerks. The existence of the court is threatened by the provisions of your reform relating to the territorial organisation, in particular departmental, of justice. Between the courts of major jurisdiction of the same department, the dispute may be divided in such a way as to facilitate the establishment of specialized chambers. The risk is therefore great that the jurisdiction of the court of Montargis, which works very well, will be transferred to the court of Orléans, which would reduce the TGI of Montargis, thus emptied of its substance, to be only a reception window. In this case, the defendants would be forced, in the absence of public transport – there is no public transport in the eastern part of the department – to make journeys by car, obliging them to incur additional fuel costs: a resident of Bazoches-sur-le-Betz would, for example, have to make 210 kilometers to return, and a resident of Beaulieu-sur-Loire 180 kilometers! The bar of Montargis, like the bar of Orléans, is alarmed and manifest. Madam Keeper of the Seals, when you received me with other parliamentarians at the Chancellery a few months ago, you made a commitment to keep the Montargis High Court as it stood. Could you confirm what you had achieved then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u14	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u15	Mr President, I confirm to you that nothing has changed since the last time I received you, and nothing will change tomorrow: no court of major jurisdiction will be closed and the court of Montargis will be kept in its entirety under the new name of judicial court, as provided for in the law of programming and reform for justice that you are currently debating. You express your concern that the system of departmental specialization provided for in article 53 of the law would deprive the competence of the TGI de Montargis of its substance. That will not be the case, I am committed to it. The bill specifies that specialization is limited to technical and low-volume litigation. Any decree that specializes in large volumes of litigation would require the annulment of the Council of State, as it would be illegal. This specialisation should simply allow judges to specialize in very specific subjects where only a sufficient number of cases can handle cases in good conditions. Thus, I repeat, each TGI will retain mass litigation: civil litigation, family litigation, contracts, liability and, in criminal matters, litigation of offences against persons and property, as well as litigation, road litigation – in short, all the litigation that makes a court live. Only highly specialized litigation, which would result from a balanced territory project between each of the courts in the departments, could lead to specializations in, for example, customs duties, environmental criminal litigation or abductions of children which, fortunately, do not take place every day. We pay particular attention to the staff of all the courts, therefore those of the TGI of Montargis. An annual job tracking circular sets out the number of posts and, for your court, provides for ten judges at the seat and three at the prosecutor's office. The staff of the Public Prosecutor's Office is full; At present, only the headquarters staff, where two persons are missing, are incomplete. I am pleased to announce that the president of the court will be installed at the end of January, which will reduce the vacancy to a job and allow the proper functioning of the Montargis court of general jurisdiction. I would also point out that the first president and the prosecutor of the Orléans Court of Appeal have six and three judges respectively to support the courts of jurisdiction, including the Montargis High Court. I can assure you, honourable Member, that we are paying close attention to all the courts in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u16	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u17	Thank you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, for this extremely important information. This reform did raise the fear that a hierarchy would be established between the courts of the department, which would be tantamount to making the Montargis TGI a secondary court over that of Orléans. The information you have given fully satisfies me and will allow me to provide an answer locally. I will simply remind you that we are also experiencing a problem at the transplant, which is serious since the transplant is the working ankle of a court.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u18	I also thank you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, for the conciseness of your answers that respect our rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u19	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No. 446 on heliport service at Le Mans Hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u20	The Universal Declaration of Human Rights makes health one of the conditions of human dignity that is itself expressed in the ability to find a supply of care that is fast and sufficiently close to its place of residence, as well as in access to quality care. However, for many years, medical density maps have shown the horrendous finding of an uneven distribution of medical presence in the territories, leading both in liberal medicine and hospital medicine to unacceptable appointment delays and exorbitant journey lengths. The "My Health 2022" reform, which the Ministry of Solidarity and Health is about to defend, aims to label hospital health facilities and establish a gradation of care. I agree with the principle of this measure, which, however, requires the re-imagination of logistical aspects and transport between establishments. The department of the Sarthe has the particularity of having a hospital center with a state-of-the-art technical plateau in Le Mans, which is the geographical center of the department. This general hospital is the most important in France; It is especially more important than the neighbouring CHU of Angers. Some parts of the Sarthois territory are still not covered by the services of a mobile emergency and resuscitation service – SMUR – which requires the support of an ambulance sent from Le Mans and travel times of up to two hours round trip. However, an average of 150 patients per day, some of whom are in vital emergency, are sent from the entire department to the hospital center of Le Mans, with peaks of activity during major sarthoese demonstrations such as the 24 Hours of Le Mans or the Grand Prix de France Moto, which receive more than 500,000 spectators in a department with only 580,000 inhabitants. It is therefore an anomaly that the Le Mans hospital is not equipped with a health helicopter, even though its neighbours from Alençon in Orne, Angers in Maine-et-Loire, Tours in Indre-et-Loire and Chartres in Eure-et-Loir are equipped with it. The considerable activity of the hospital in Le Mans, coupled with the seriousness of the situations that practitioners have to face, makes it absolutely necessary to set up a heliported health service in this city. On 19 October, the Sarthe department council unanimously adopted a wish that a shared heliport service be set up, in order to limit the costs, between the Le Mans hospital and the Alençon hospital. Administrative procedures with the regional health agency – ARS – of the Pays de la Loire have been carried out, but the request for a helicopter is not integrated into the regional health organisation scheme. I would therefore ask the Minister for Solidarity and Health to take the necessary steps, by way of derogation, to put in place, within the shortest possible time, this heliported health service common to the two establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u21	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u22	I share your observation as regards both the situation at the emergency reception service of the hospital in Le Mans and the management of health risks at the major popular gatherings organized in your department. We pay attention to each territory and ensure that the responses are tailored to the needs and proportionate to the means available. For urgent heliport transport needs, the Le Mans Hospital and its centre 15 can mobilise the Angers, Nantes or Alençon heliSMUR, while ensuring that they are linked with the other 15 centres of the neighbouring territories. Providing the Le Mans hospital centre with an additional medical helicopter would involve the realization, subject to the authorization of the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation, of complete equipment corresponding to an investment of approximately €6 million and an average annual operating cost of 1.2 to 1.5 million. The central question is, therefore, the answer to the needs for the Sarthois territory and the organization to be implemented. We will ask the Director General of the regional health agency of the Pays de la Loire to seize the Regional Emergency Observatory in order to draw up an inventory of the needs for the use of a helicopter for primary and secondary health transport in Sarthe. This analysis will be presented for opinion to the Emergency and Unscheduled Care Steering Committee of the Pays de la Loire in the first quarter of 2019. Meanwhile, the managing director of the ARS of Pays de la Loire will approach the CHU of Angers to see how to improve the situation of the Sarthe thanks to the helicopter based in Angers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u23	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor to put his question, No. 455, on food aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u24	My question is about food aid, which allows 4 million people in precarious situations to supplement their baskets of food, clothing and basic health products. Dispensed by associations that work every day, especially in my constituency, to help the poorest, it also includes advice and support to get out of the cycle of poverty. Two main food aid financings exist in France: the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived (FEAD), which accounts for 85% of France's funding of €587.4 million, and the remaining 15% of national funding of €88 million. The FEAD runs until 2020 and the associations I met have no visibility regarding the sustainability of these funding after that date. What steps does the Government intend to take with the European Commission to maintain both the Fund and the French envelope? Madam Secretary of State, I also wish to warn you about aggressive business practices, in contradiction to the Government's fight against food waste. Socially shameful and environmentally absurd, food waste was the subject of a law in 2016, which the Government strengthened with the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and a healthy and sustainable diet, called "EGALIM", by extending to collective restoration and the agri-food industry the obligation for supermarkets over 400 square meters to sell their unsold food to associations. However, supermarkets seek to circumvent the law by robbing their unsold ones. How do you judge this phenomenon and what measures do you intend to take to regulate these practices?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u25	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u26	The European Fund for Aid to the Poorest currently has €3.5 billion on programming 2014-2020 and France is receiving 499 million Community funding for this period. Among the European Commission's proposals for the next multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, it is envisaged that a specific objective of combating material deprivation will be integrated into an enlarged European Social Fund – ESF. Since the beginning of the negotiations, France has supported the renewal of this European instrument, which is one of the priorities of the European Pillar of Social Rights adopted in November 2017. The French authorities support a number of theses to the European Commission: the need for a national and centralised management of the food aid component of the ESF+ with an autonomous management authority; the simplification of management rules, both in terms of administrative control of expenditure and of food distribution operations by volunteers; and the minimum renewal of the current French envelope of the FEAD in both European and national appropriations. With regard to the budgeting of FEAD's ineligible expenditure, the State compensated for the first time in 2017 for ineligible expenditure at FranceAgriMer. The draft finance law for 2019 provides for an allocation of EUR 9 million to cover the financial corrections of the European Commission. I'm going to the food waste. The commercial practices of applying promotions on products approaching their expiry date are not contrary to the law and contribute to the prevention of food waste. However, the EGALIM Act passed by Parliament in the autumn empowers the Government to take by ordinance measures to extend the obligation to donate unsold goods to the collective catering sector and to operators in the agri-food sector, and reinforces the attention that retail companies pay to the quality of their donations to food aid associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u27	Mrs Maud Petit, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 454, on the competences of midwives for abortions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u28	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, I would like to draw your attention to the recognition of the competence of midwives to practice instrumental abortion. Article L. 2212-1 of the Public Health Code allows a pregnant woman, a major or a minor, who considers herself in a situation of distress to ask a doctor to stop her pregnancy. The latter can take two forms. One is the drug GVI, which does not require surgery and can be performed at home. Since the Act of 26 January 2016 to modernize our health care system, midwives have been empowered to perform this intervention. The other method is instrumental GVI, which requires the intervention of a doctor in a hospital or health centre, as this practice takes place under local or general anaesthetic. According to international recommendations, it is considered preferable beyond nine weeks of amenorrhea, as it reduces the risk of hemorrhage and trauma. However, there is now a significant decrease in the number of instrumental IVGs: 80% of IVGs are drug-related. The many retirements of practitioners, the closures of IVG centres – over the past ten years, forty-three centres have been closed – and the longer delays in getting an appointment are at the root of an imbalance in the provision of care that may be one of the explanations for this increase in IVG drugs. To remedy this imbalance and not to force the freedom of choice of women using abortion, the question of expanding the skills of midwives can now arise. This enlargement is called for by some midwives. Feminist psychologist Harvey Karman, who revolutionized abortion with surgical aspiration method, recommends that instrumental abortion be performed by paramedical health professionals, including midwives. In a global context where women's rights and the right to abortion are increasingly being challenged, France must be an example. It must improve the management of the abortion. What is your position regarding the extension of midwives' skills to the instrumental IVG? To what extent can it be applied?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u29	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u30	I confirm to you, Madam Member, that the Government is fully mobilized, in conjunction with the actors on the ground, to improve women's access to abortion throughout the country in optimal conditions of quality and security. This is a real public health issue. We have, for example, the desire to set up family planning services in perinatal care centres in maternity wards in order to allow access to prevention in this area. Progress continues in line with the national action programme for improving access to abortion, published in 2015, and the development of programmes in each region by ensuring local decline. In order to measure these advances as well as the progress still to be made in this area, we wanted to launch, from the beginning of 2019, a survey of regional health agencies, in order to have an objective view of the situation in each territory and to identify regional and local specificities. This will make it possible to adapt, where appropriate, national actions which may be envisaged in favour of access to the IVG. This may also help to support future regional policies in support of regional GVI access plans. Among the levers identified, the practice of abortion by midwives is an important element. As you know, since 2016, the law has given them this possibility through drugs. To date, only 3% of drug GVIs are performed by midwives. In addition, instrumental GVI will soon be achievable in health centres, which will be an additional measure to improve access to GVI. Finally, it should be noted that, within the framework of cooperation protocols adopted under Article 51 of the Law of 21 July 2009 on the reform of the hospital, known as HPST, and currently submitted for opinion to the High Health Authority, midwives could be allowed to practice instrumental IVG under the supervision of a doctor. The opinion of the High Health Authority will shed light on the desirability of these cooperation protocols.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u31	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to put his question, No 430, on the embankment of gravel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u32	The impact of climate change on the availability and quality of water resources is now known. That is why we must be more vigilant about the impact of our activities, particularly agricultural and industrial activities, on this resource. Sensitized to this worrying theme, like all my Ariegian compatriots, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, to the embankment of excavations left by the exploitation of gravels, taking the concrete example of a farm located in my constituency in Ariège. The company Denjean Granulats extracts materials in the major bed of Ariège, in the municipality of Saverdun up to 15 meters deep, exposing the water table. The arrangements for redevelopment of the site, provided for by prefectural decree, involve the watering of a large quantity of so-called inert waste, for the partial emplacement of these water holes. If the Saverdun gravity does not bear its name, it is indeed an inert waste storage facility, known as "ISDI", within the meaning of the Order of 12 December 2014 on general requirements for installations falling within heading No 2760 of the classification of installations classified for the protection of the environment, since materials of the BTP are permanently stored on the site. Section 4 of the Order states that "the facility is located outside the outcropping area of a tablecloth, stream, water body, canals and ditches, temporary or permanent." That is why I believe it is urgent to clarify the legislation on the materials allowed for the filling of flooded alluvial quarries, to strengthen controls, and to prohibit the burial of waste in contact with water, because they have consequences for the proper flow of groundwater bodies, and they are a source of pollution. What do you think of this situation, and what measures do you intend to take with regard to the embankment of gravel?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u33	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u34	Mr Larive, you asked Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, and the ministry about gravity. You have drawn our attention to the gravity of Denjean Granulats, located in Saverdun, in particular its regulatory situation regarding its inert waste backfill activity. Saverdun's gravity is a career under the legislation of facilities classified for the protection of the environment. As such, it is authorized by prefectural order, then controlled during its operation and rehabilitation by the inspection of the classified facilities of the Regional Directorate of Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – Occitanie, under the authority of the Prefect of Ariège. As you indicate, the terms and conditions for redevelopment of the site are laid down in the prefectural order. They have therefore been assessed in the environmental impact assessment and are regulated. Quarries with backfilling activities are not inert waste storage facilities, known as "ISDI"; Therefore, they are not subject to the order you quote. The filling of quarries is regulated by the amended Order of 22 September 1994 on quarries and primary processing facilities for quarries. This decree lays down the criteria for the admission of inert waste in the quarry. It does not prohibit the filling of inert waste in a water quarry, since it does not affect the quality of the soil or the quality and proper flow of the water. In the case of Saverdun's career, this aspect was verified through the impact study. In addition, a backfilling protocol was signed on 10 January 2014 between the Prefect of Ariège, the departmental council and the Carriers. The aim of this protocol is to strictly regulate the conditions for the acceptance of waste and its backfilling. It also provides for unannounced annual checks to be carried out by the inspection of classified installations to verify compliance with the regulations. These controls, the results of which are available to the public on request, have not revealed any major non-compliances in the management and treatment of inert waste concerning Saverdun's quarry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u35	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u36	The information you provide to us probably dates back to 2014. Today, new data show enormous pollution. I am simply quoting the level of aluminum which is 14,000 times higher than the permitted standard. Surveys by the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research in the sumps around the gravière show that the groundwater table is not renewing. I personally saw trees in the field that were broken down because of the pollution – this has been verified. Locals have brought lawsuits against the gravitators. I ask you here to resolve a problem of social peace that is found throughout our territory. The inert waste, if buried, is all right, but if you immerse them, when it comes to plaster, it is easy to understand that this will result in a plug that will divert the water table. In this case, we are close to irrigation, and the northern part of the town of Saverdun will soon suffer from a lack of water. I would also like to remind you that we are in a strategic area, because Ariège is a river that stretches from the Garonne to the edge of which is the Golfech power station.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u37	Mrs Laëtitia Romeiro Dias has the floor to raise her question, No. 436, on the prohibition of wild animals in circuses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u38	A lion running on roller skates, a giraffe using a hoop, an elephant that is raised with electric stings, a pony rotating on a ride eight hours in a row... In fairs, circuses, and amusement parks, which is entertaining for some is actually about animal abuse. Numbers are inconsistent with their natural abilities, and dressage methods are painful. Several different developments in recent years remind us that these animals are victims of ill-being. The suffering of the Maya elephant or the history of tigers escaped from a circus and then shot down in the streets of Paris legitimately shocked our fellow citizens. Last February, a FIFG poll indicated that 67% of French people were in favour of banning wild animals in circuses. I am regularly questioned in my constituency on this matter. More and more cities can no longer wait for legislation. They try to ban the installation of circuses using wild animals from their soil. Ajaccio, Cagnes-sur-Mer, Paris, Strasbourg, Saint-Étienne, in recent years the list of municipalities that have signed a decree to this effect has increased; They're more than a hundred. It is only a wish, however, because they do not have the legal competence to prohibit the arrival of a circus on the grounds that it presents wild animals. While the Ministerial Order of 18 March 2011 on the conditions for the detention and use of live non-domestic animals in travelling entertainment establishments strengthened circus obligations, it did not prohibit the use of wild animals. Since this practice is legal, the decrees of the municipalities concerned are therefore unlawful – this is the case in the Essonne, of which several elected representatives have told me of this difficulty. So what are we going to do? Twenty-eight countries have already ended the presence of animals in their circuses, the latest being Portugal a few weeks ago. It is now up to the representatives of the nation and the Government to seize this matter, to which our fellow citizens attach importance. Madam Secretary of State, I know how much you are committed to animal welfare, too, I would like to know what steps we could take together to move towards animal-free circuses. What measures can we consider to accompany the Circassians in their transformation towards activities without animals? What actions can we implement gradually, so that France aligns itself with its European neighbours?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u39	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u40	Madam Member, I am replying to you on behalf of the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, telling you how sensitive the Government is to the inclusion of animal welfare in our society. This issue is now a growing concern of public opinion, which is expressed particularly with regard to animals in entertainment activities, especially circuses. The issue of holding these animals is legally complex. Part of the population is calling for the ban on wild animals in circuses, which is already provided for in the legislation of several EU Member States. In addition, communication campaigns, and even demonstrations that disturb representations, are organized by associations that defend the animal cause. Some town halls now refuse to set up circuses in the territory of their commune on behalf of animal welfare, even though most of the establishments concerned are in compliance with the regulations in force. In order to understand this societal debate, it is necessary to take into account all aspects – animal welfare, social issues and economic issues for the Circassians – and to listen to all parties, and to establish a dialogue between them. It is our collective responsibility to ease the tensions on the ground between Circassians, NGOs and people. To that end, the Government had decided to entrust the National Commission for the Professional and Circassian Professions with the task of working on the subject. Set up at the beginning of 2018 to follow up on the conclusions of an interministerial mission, this commission, chaired by a prefect and bringing together the profession, the state and the elected representatives, makes it possible to grasp in their entirety the difficulties encountered by the profession. At its last meeting, at the end of October, it unanimously decided to set up a group dedicated to animal welfare in circuses. This group, which will meet early in 2019, will serve as a forum for dialogue with NGO representatives and will be involved in its work. It will examine possible developments in animal welfare, taking into account the social and economic situation of circus professionals. He will, by next spring – so very quickly – make proposals for measures concerning the place and use of wild animals in circuses. Meanwhile, the activities of circuses holding wild animals in France are strictly supervised and regulated by the requirements of a ministerial decree of 18 March 2011. About 100 French circuses present animals to the public. In each of them, the person responsible for the maintenance of animals must hold a certificate of competence for the presentation to the public, within a mobile establishment, of non-domestic species on display. The establishment must have a prefectural authorization. In addition, standards for cages and animal installation are described precisely in the 2011 Order, in order to define a minimum of animal welfare. If legislative or regulatory developments appear necessary, they will be decided quickly, and proposed to parliamentarians, on the basis of the results of the working group which will be operational at the beginning of 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u41	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to raise her question, No. 438, concerning the equipment of the State car fleet in E85 cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u42	The Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition published in the Official Gazette on 15 December 2017 a decree on the approval of E85 cases intended to equip petrol-powered vehicles. Once installed by an approved professional, these enclosures allow any gasoline vehicle to operate also with superethanol E85. E85, derived from feed grains, beet and the processing residues of these crops into starch and sugar, has the advantage of being largely renewable, since it consists on average of 75% ethanol, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 60% compared to fossil fuel. This fuel, which was adopted in France ten years ago, is now available in nearly 1000 gas stations in our territory, and benefits from advantageous taxation. It also allows for a significant reduction in the fuel budget. In addition, France has been Europe's leading ethanol producer for several years, with 11 to 12 million hectolitres produced each year; It exports about a third of its production to its European neighbours. The consumption of E85 superethanol has many advantages: on the one hand, it contributes to the circular economy and to the short circuits of valorisation of agricultural products; On the other hand, it improves French energy independence. In the interests of exemplaryness and taking into account the above-mentioned elements, should the State not plan to equip its petrol fleet with E85 housings?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u43	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u44	The use of biofuels, including superethanol E85, effectively contributes to achieving the target that renewable energy accounts for 10% of final energy consumption in the transport sector, and the target of 15% set out in the 2030 energy transition law. Biofuels in food competition are, however, limited, by application of the European ILUC Directive – for Indirect Land Use Change – to 7% of the share of final energy in transport, which is already reached today. This maximum level has been reaffirmed by the recent Renewable Energy Directive. The growth of the share of biofuels in transport can therefore only be achieved through biofuels without food competition, in particular so-called second-generation biofuels from wood, straw or seaweed, for example. The use of this type of biofuels is still emerging, as their production is not yet controlled at industrial level, and their cost is still too high to allow volume increases. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the development of E85 does not take place at the expense of the production of food crops and does not lead to an exceedance of the Community ceiling for first-generation biofuels. In order to allow in-service vehicles – originally designed to operate with unleaded petrol fuel – to run with superethanol E85, the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidary Transition issued a decree in 2017 laying down technical and administrative provisions for the approval of devices for the conversion of petrol-powered vehicles to petrol-superethanol modular fuel engines, in order to guarantee emissions in accordance with the standards in force. These transformations have, a priori, allowed for a balanced environmental balance, contributing in particular to the reduction of fine particulate emissions from direct-injection petrol vehicles without particulate filters. A return of experience on the operation of approved and installed devices is expected, in particular, as provided for by the approval order for conversion units. The scheme for the deployment of low-emission public fleets, based on the Energy Transition Act, favours the use of electric vehicles, the level of which is significantly lower than that of petrol-powered vehicles equipped with E85 units. For the State and its public institutions, managers now have to incorporate, as such, the requirement to purchase 50 % of low-emission vehicles in the renewal of the fleets of more than 20 vehicles, since 1 January 2017. In addition, a Prime Minister's circular of 20 April 2017 on the management of the state's fleet of cars, programmes the elimination of diesel purchases out of the remaining 50% of the fleet. It is now planned, as part of a recast of this text, in accordance with your request, to mention the usefulness, for the remaining 50%, of the use of alternative engines such as ethanol E85, but also LPG or GNV. Your proposal is therefore currently under consideration, and could be reflected in this recasting of the circular, but it must be in accordance with all the conditions of respect for the environment that I have just mentioned. Finally, it should be noted that, in the current draft finance bill, the Government has made it possible to incorporate a greater volume of ethanol into gasoline, taking into account the possibility of accounting for some of the residues of sugar production above the 7 per cent ceiling, as permitted by a European directive currently being finalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u45	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to put his question, No. 449, on methanization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u46	I would like, Madam Secretary of State, to speak to you about the ecological and energy transition, and to talk to you in particular about one of its strong levers, carried in the territories by those who are certainly the first actors in the energy transition: the agricultural actors. I'd like to talk to you about methanization. I am a strong advocate of the methanization process. I think it's of dual interest. A clear environmental interest, first of all: the reprocessing and recovery of waste; economic interest, since it brings a new source of income to our farmers. The energy levers that make it possible to combine environment and economy are so rare that it is worth pointing out in the case of methanisation. The Lot department is experiencing many developments of new methanization projects. These projects raise a number of objective questions that I am responsible for raising and relaying to you. The first of these questions is the dimension of these methanization projects. It is quite obvious that the impact on the territory is not the same according to the dimensions foreseen for these equipment. The projects are now increasingly large, and the impact on the territory is increasing. It appears to be largely undervalued and underestimated. Securing such equipment is also a complex issue. In the Lot department, precisely, we had at least two episodes of pollution: first leaks of digestat, whose impact on the soil has still not been fully assessed, and then olfactory pollution, with inconvenience caused by extremely high odors around certain methanization units. There is also a gap between the authorizations issued by the State and the implementation of some of these facilities, which is accompanied by an absolutely cruel lack of consultation, explanation and transparency vis-à-vis the population and local elected officials. So I wrote to the Minister of State a month ago asking him two things. First, to have immediately all the elements that the State has in its possession on the analysis of recent leaks, on the applications for authorisation and on the possible discrepancies between accepted applications and the equipment actually created.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u47	[[At 10.20 a.m., Ms. Annie Genevard replaced Mr. Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u48	All right! Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u49	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u50	Mr. Deputy, you have drawn our attention to the strategy adopted by the Government to ensure the development of methanization in good conditions. I agree with you when you say that methanisation is a promising sector, with multiple benefits, both in environmental terms and in terms of creating jobs and opportunities for the agricultural sector. Biogas production must also play an important part in the energy transition, and has been chosen as such in the multiannual energy programming. On the more concrete aspects related to the problems posed by methanization, the Government organized a national working group last year to promote the development of this sector and to address the concrete issues that arise in this development. One of the issues addressed by the working group was the professionalisation of the actors in the sector, which will be reinforced through the development of a training plan. The Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – will contribute to this by making available prepared guides for project promoters, in particular with a view to improving the information of our citizens on methanisation. I also agree with you that consultation and transparency on projects are essential to ensure confidence around these facilities. Most methanisation projects are subject, depending on their size in particular, to authorisation or registration under the legislation of installations classified for the protection of the environment. They are therefore subject to public inquiry or, at a minimum, public consultation before any decision is taken by the Prefect. On the occasion of this consultation, each citizen is informed and can present his opinion, which will be taken up in the opinion of the Commissioner of Inquiry. The procedure also provides that the opinion of the environmental authority is made public during this public inquiry, in order to inform the public, the investigating commissioner, but also the authority responsible for making the final decision. In addition, methanisation plants are regulated by specific rules, in accordance with the legislation on installations classified for the protection of the environment. For the most important facilities, i.e. subject to the authorisation regime, the impact assessment shall include a health risk study that allows the risk to be assessed and controlled in a thorough manner. Harms, particularly olfactory, must be limited as far as possible, and minimum distances from third-party dwellings are imposed. You're telling me about an accidental leak and olfactory nuisances found on a Lot site. As a result of a pipeline rupture, part of the methanizer's digestate fled into a ditch. The Regional Health Agency has conducted analyses to verify that there is no impact on the drinking water supply to residents. On the proposal of the Ministry's services, the Prefect issued an order on 6 November last imposing measures to limit the olfactory nuisances of the site. Of course, the department's services remain very vigilant in monitoring compliance and in rehabilitating the site. I share your hope that the results of the analyses will be forwarded to the elected representatives, the representatives of the National Assembly and the representatives of the citizens on the site. More generally, the acceptance of methanizers, and therefore local consultation, seems to me to be an important issue, and I agree with your wish that round tables can be organized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u51	I call Mr Le Fur to speak on his question, No. 451 concerning the change of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u52	The change of time is a recurring subject of debate in the opinion; It is discussed at least twice a year to ask whether or not to maintain this biennial rhythm. The European Union has recently positioned itself on this issue, advocating the abandonment of biennial change, to the advantage, it seems, of summer time. It is not clear why the European Union would set a single hour for the different European nations: the European continent is large enough, from East to West, to admit several time zones. Moreover, everyone knows the importance of the rhythm of life on sleep, on health: our compatriots are very sensitive to it. So the question is what time to choose: winter time, which is one hour ahead of the sun, or summer time, which is two hours ahead of the sun? Winter time has its name against it, but two hours ahead of the sun for summer time is a lot. For France, adopting this solution would be tantamount to setting itself all year round on Berlin's solar rhythm. One can wonder, knowing that one must respect the natural rhythms, the rhythm of life, the chronobiology. These rhythms are particularly important for children and for all those who, working outside, adapt their rhythm to that of the sun – I am thinking in particular of farmers and professionals in construction and public works, two classes of the population very well represented among those who were demonstrating, dressed in a yellow vest, on our crossroads. We have to respect them. We can and must live at the rhythm of the sun, which is the natural rhythm. If summer time were to be extended, it would be two hours in advance for everyone. This would put us at risk of being confronted with absurdities. I would remind you that between Strasbourg and Brest, there is more than an hour's lag in terms of the solar race. If summer time, two hours in advance, were widespread on 22 December in Brest, the sun would rise at 10:11 a.m. You can imagine the impact of this shift, especially in the west of our country! Madam Secretary of State, I would like to know the position of the Government on this issue which is essential for the daily life of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u53	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u54	Mr President, on 12 September last, during his annual speech on the state of the Union, the President of the European Commission proposed, as you pointed out, the abolition of the two-year time-change regime. A legislative proposal has been published in the meantime, indicating, in particular, that the latest time change could take place in April 2019, with the aim that each Member State will definitely choose which time zone it wishes to attach itself to. This proposal did not provide for the prior coordination of national choices and was the result of a public consultation launched this summer by the European Commission, which met with a broad response: almost 5 million Europeans contributed, in the first place Germans. The Austrian Presidency of the European Union was initially keen to have this legislative proposal adopted quickly, if possible by the end of the year. However, many Member States have not agreed on their position: they emphasize the need for more consultation with their citizens, but also for better coordination with the border Member States. The Austrian Presidency, taking note of this situation, was content with a progress report, adopted at the Council of European Transport Ministers on 3 December. It proposes, at this stage, to postpone the stoppage of the change of time to 2021 at the earliest, instructs the Member States to coordinate in order to define, in the long term, their legal time. The Government has not yet taken a position on this issue. At the environmental level, the justification for the change of time appears to be diminishing, given the technological progress made since the introduction of this system, which could lead to a renunciation of the change of time. However, other factors must be taken into account at the national level: the geographical extent of our country, its many borders and the current socio-cultural habits of the French do not make it easy to choose between the current summer and winter hours. Furthermore, the effects of the proposal on the proper functioning of the internal market should be well assessed. At European Union level, the current system allows 60% of the Member States, representing 75% of the population, to live at the same time, despite the longitude of the continent, which you recalled. Today, the crossing of the French land borders does not imply any change in time zones. The Government therefore considers that, before such a decision is taken, it is necessary to compare all the effects of maintaining the change of time, on the one hand, and the final choice of winter or summer time, on the other. The Government, on this issue, is attentive to the opinion of the citizens: the French did not participate in the consultation, but all the opinion polls confirm a widely shared desire to question the change of time. Under these circumstances, the Government will shortly take two initiatives. First, he will ask the National Commission for Public Debate to conduct a proper citizen consultation on the change of time. Secondly, he will entrust a member of parliament with a mission to analyse the economic dimension of the problem at the local level, by going to contact the territories that would be most affected by the change in winter time – the southeast – or summer time, or by desynchronization – the border areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u55	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u56	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. I would like us not to forget the children, for whom it is essential to follow the natural rhythm, nor those who work outside, who follow the rhythm of the sun. If the difference between solar time and legal time was too large, the latter would themselves be offset by the pace of society. I would also like to make sure that we do not forget the French West, particularly Brittany: because the sun rises and sets there later, this part of our territory would be in danger of being shifted. You have to be careful, Madam Secretary of State! Nevertheless, I note from your speech that there will be no evolution until 2021, so there will be no change next spring. It is better, indeed, to give ourselves time for reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u57	The next speaker is Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge, to put her question, No. 453, on the presence of the wolf in Isère.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u58	I appeal again to the Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, to the concerns of many farmers in my department of l'Isère, because of the presence of the wolf. They are particularly concerned because of the increasing losses they must regret. The wolf is a protected species and its return to our territory is a chance. It plays an important role in regulating wild animal populations and contributes to the proper balance of ecosystems. However, we cannot ignore the problems faced by farmers, who already face many other difficulties, linked to the unprecedented crisis facing the agricultural world as a whole. I have visited farms several times: the distress is real – I do not teach you, Madam Secretary of State. Pastoral activity is one of the main pillars of the mountain economy. It is not only a source of products of proximity and quality, but also a way of managing natural environments. It is a quality, artisanal agriculture, organised on short circuits, that shapes the landscapes for the benefit of other economic activities, such as tourism and sports activities, such as skiing. It also plays a key role in preventing natural hazards – fires, avalanches and landslides. The 2018-2023 National Action Plan on Wolf and Livestock Activities – known as the "wolf plan" – provides solutions, but its resources are limited. In view of the specificities of each territory, more experiments and actions should be carried out and encouraged. For example, the Vercors Regional Nature Park launched a consultation in March 2018 involving breeders and stakeholders to support innovation in protection measures or scarring. This consultation is based on three areas: the transmission and sharing of information, knowledge and uses; acquisition of knowledge; protection of herds and good conservation status of the wolf. I had already drawn the attention of Mr de Rugy's predecessor to the initiative of breeders who have been experimenting for three years with the introduction of Herens cows into the Vercors massif. This cow breed has the ability to defend itself against wolves, and could be a solution: the five Heren cows of Vercors have never been attacked. So there are solutions. What concrete means, including financial means, does the Government intend to use to reconcile respect for our environment and its biodiversity with the activities of our farmers in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u59	[[At 10:35 a.m., Mr. Marc Le Fur replaced Ms. Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u60	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u61	The new national action plan on wolf and livestock activities, which was published almost a year ago, on February 19, 2018, foresees several axes to better reduce wolf predation on domestic herds. The pastoralist support programme aims to improve the protection of herds. It provides for the financing of 80 % of the protection measures and the establishment of an observatory of these measures, in order to assess their effectiveness and to test experiments aimed at strengthening them. It also provides for the creation of mobile shepherds' teams to assist pastoralists in times of attack, the restoration of pastoral facilities and the deepening of the training of shepherds. The work on the harmonisation of compensation for damage caused by large predators will enable us to have a regulatory framework in line with European rules, allowing for direct losses and indirect losses to be taken into account. In view of the persistence of predation in some areas, despite the deployment of protective measures, the policy of intervention on wolves has been modified to give priority to the defence of herds. The herdsmen have thus obtained a permanent right to defend their herds: the defence fire near the herds can be carried out all year round. In addition, sampling can be carried out from September to December in areas where the number of predations observed since the beginning of the year is high. The necessary funds have been made available this summer to allow the first experiments of mobile shepherds in national parks. The Ministry of Agriculture has set up a working group on the quality of the protection dog industry; the network is gradually being set up. In order to support the breeders in carrying out the reinforced defence fire, the National Wolf Brigade of the National Office for Hunting and Wildlife has been sustained. Its mission is to contribute to the training of the moulters, who are increasingly involved in the field. A budget of EUR 142000 was made available for the moulters to cover their kilometric allowances and to provide them with suitable equipment. The wolf plan also provides for closer management of the land and tends to strengthen the role of the prefect coordinator, prefect of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Finally, three studies, on wolf ethology, pastoralism in predation and indirect loss from wolf attacks, will be launched in 2019; they will be subject to the validation of a scientific council, which is being set up, which will ensure their quality. Experiment projects for 2019 will be identified and submitted to this council. The momentum thus launched by the Government will allow, not only to support farmers facing predation, but also to optimize the action of the various actors present on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u62	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u63	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for this information. You have understood the meaning of my question. Not all territories are identical: that is why the actors who are mobilizing, who propose suitable and innovative solutions need to be supported. I note that you will identify these initiatives during 2019; I hope that the one I spoke about in the Vercors massif will have all your attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u64	Mr Stéphane Peu, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 433, on the Charles-de-Gaulle Express.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u65	As the public inquiry procedure on the "Charles-de-Gaulle Express" liaison project continues, I would like to re-explain the reasons for our frank and total opposition to this project. First, the Charles-de-Gaulle Express will take part in the RER B routes. It will thus degrade the service provided to the users of this line, which carries more than a million passengers every day – these employees who get up early and cross the Île-de-France region to go to work. They can no longer have incidents, almost daily delays, and this unbearable situation will be further aggravated by the cumulation, on the same tracks, of the RER B and the Charles-de-Gaulle Express! Secondly, in our view, the argument of the need for a direct link between Charles-de-Gaulle Airport and the centre of Paris does not take into account, given the current transport offer of the RER B, which I have already mentioned, and above all the future offer, with the trains on line 17 of the Grand Paris Express, which will run at 110 km-hour, putting Saint-Denis Pleyel twenty-one minutes from the airport and thirteen minutes from the business district of La Défense. Third, the cost of the ticket, which will be 24 euros, will make the Charles-de-Gaulle Express a transport for a clientele of businessmen and rich tourists, inaccessible to the francilian population and modest tourists. Fourthly, with the legal assembly chosen for this operation, the State will grant the construction of the Charles-de-Gaulle Express to a private company to which it will guarantee a loan of 1.7 billion euros, necessary for the construction. It is therefore a private project guaranteed by public money, for a client sorted on the part. This is what is called the socialisation of investment and the privatisation of profits! Fifthly, those who know a little bit about the Seine-Saint-Denis know that the territory located between the gate of the Chapel and the Charles-de-Gaulle airport has been swept away according to history by still bewildering urban fractures. The Charles-de-Gaulle Express will add another urban sweep, in particular because of the air viaduct of the Chapel Gate, nullifying all the efforts made by the City of Paris, the public territorial establishment Plaine Commune and the city of Saint-Denis to restore this urban capharnaum. The Government has asked the Société du Grand Paris to make 10 per cent savings on the public transport network of the Greater Paris. We ask the State to reconsider this decision, to abandon the Charles-de-Gaulle Express project and to allocate the subsidies devoted to it to the maintenance of the existing public network, to the Grand Paris Express and to the extension of the metro and tram lines that serve our populations much better, without discrimination by the price of the ticket.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u66	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u67	Mr President, you asked Mrs Borne about the Charles-de-Gaulle Express project. She couldn't be present, so she asked me to answer you. The Charles-de-Gaulle Express project is essential for the economic and tourist attraction of the Île-de-France region and will allow a modal shift from road to rail. Its public utility has been confirmed by the Council of State, following appeals against it. This project, which is not directly funded by the public authority, is advancing and will be put into service before the 2024 Games, as France has committed itself to doing. A few days ago, the minister of the ecological and solidarity transition appointed the future prospective operator of the Charles-de-Gaulle Express, following a call for tenders. Borne will soon sign with SNCF Réseau, Aéroports de Paris and Caisse des dépôts the concession contract which will launch the planned work from February 2019. I would also point out that the project is well coordinated with the other projects under way for daily transportation in Île-de-France, in no way to their detriment. I am thinking in particular of the RER B, which you mentioned, since 180 million euros are foreseen in the framework of the Charles-de-Gaulle Express for its improvement. The State-region plan contract foresees €7.6 billion in investment over the period 2015-2020, which represents a considerable effort for public transport in the region. In concrete terms and without the list being exhaustive, these include the master plans for RER and Transilians, the extension of Eole, the extension of line 11, new trams, new tram trains and high-level buses. Finally, Grand Paris Express will complement the existing network by means of interconnections, thus providing the Francilians with an additional means of transport, mainly in bypass. In the long term, 200 kilometres of lines will be built, i.e. as much as all the lines of the current Paris metro network, which will amount to 35 billion euros of investment. The inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis will be among the first to benefit from it, for example, thanks to the commissioning of line 16 until Clichy-Montfermeil by 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u68	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u69	[[Mr. Stéphane Viry applauds]] I hear, Madam Secretary of State, that you confirm the choice of spending ten times as much public money on a transportation network for an easy customer base rather than trying to improve the daily lives of the million employees who, every day, are suffering from the delays and difficulties of the RER B. But this does not allow you to say inaccuracies: it is not true that the realization of the Charles-de-Gaulle Express was included in Paris' bid for the Olympic Games. This is absolutely not true: it was the Grand Paris Express, in no case the Charles-de-Gaulle Express. Thank you for not lying to national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u70	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, to put his question, No. 439, concerning the development of the northern sector of the A31 bis motorway.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u71	Last September, the highly symbolic figure of the 100,000 French frontier workers crossing the Luxembourg border was crossed. After twenty-five years of waiting, here is the time for the passage of the Mobilitys law, and various autoroutian problems related to this law emerge in the Greater East region. My constituency sees more than 80000 cars and about 12000 heavy goods vehicles passing every day to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and the National Institute of Statistics of Luxembourg plans up to 132000 additional border passengers by 2035. In fact, mobility needs are growing much faster than the infrastructure of the third constituency of Meurthe-et-Moselle, of which I am elected. My constituency is thus directly affected by the major road projects of the above-mentioned law, and more particularly by the development of the northern sector of the A31 bis motorway. It has become a political issue that should be highlighted in this House. In the strategy for the development of this northern section of the A31 bis motorway linking Thionville to Luxembourg, the use of a private concessionaire would involve changes which cannot benefit the greatest number and the general interest. This may lead to a substantial increase in the prices for road users, and thus to a shift in the flow of goods on neighbouring roads and motorways, which are free of charge. We must remember, at the Ministry of Transport, that a discharge route exists via the basin of Longwy, by using the motorway A30, in addition to the national N52 which is four lanes: these, in 2.7 kilometers and eleven minutes less, allow to reach Belgium by way of Luxembourg, and all this for zero euro! As a result, the development of the northern sector of the A31 bis motorway would lead to huge congestion in the Longwy basin. While Luxembourg is announcing the free use of public transport – buses, trams, trains – throughout its territory as early as 2020, can we know the state of affairs of the Minister for Transport on the need to use other means of financing than the public service concession for the development of the section of the A31 bis north, as well as on the idea of a negotiated tariff for border passengers travelling to Luxembourg every day – the symbolic euro, for example?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u72	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u73	Mr President, you are asking Mrs Élisabeth Borne about the A31, which is currently in poor traffic conditions, particularly about the section between Thionville and the Luxembourg border. Project A31 bis aims to respond, within appropriate time frames, to all these difficulties on the Lorrain trail, according to the three sectors north, centre and south. The State has recently launched a public consultation on the project in order to present the main features of the proposed developments and to engage with all stakeholders. This consultation, which will end in February 2019, is a useful way to share your views and specific expectations. On the northern sector under consideration, studies have shown the need to carry out simultaneously a new routed motorway bypass at Thionville law and a two-fold widening of the A31 between the north of Thionville and the Luxembourg border, in order to ensure the smoothness of traffic throughout the sector. In accordance with the decisions taken in 2016, all the developments between Richemont and Luxembourg will be carried out by means of a motorway concession. Given the significant cost of the operation and the current difficulties in mobilizing public funds, this will allow the work to be carried out quickly in order to reduce within a reasonable time the difficulties currently faced by users of the A31. The toll will be used to cover the costs of new investments – widening the A31 and bypassing the west of Thionville – as well as the costs of maintaining and operating the infrastructure. It will therefore be the direct counterpart to an improvement in the level of service for users. The upgrades will improve the attractiveness of the A31 on the northern sector and promote traffic carry-overs on the highway. They will thus avoid the congestion of the secondary networks which, in the absence of a project, would be saturated by 2030, in view of the projected increases in traffic throughout the area. The A31bis project, even with a payload from the northern section, will therefore be beneficial for daily mobility in this border sector. In addition, the project will directly improve the conditions of circulation in Meurthe-et-Moselle since it envisages, on the one hand, an expansion to two times three tracks of the A31 between Augny and Bouxières-aux-Dames, and, on the other hand, work on the southern sector according to a development party that remains to be determined, currently discussed in the framework of the ongoing consultation. I will use the few seconds I have left to refute what Mr. Little said when he accused me of lying in front of the national representation about the Charles de Gaulle Express. I have merely said that the project will be put into operation before 2024, the date of the Games, in accordance with the commitment that the Government has formally made. I would like to thank the Members of the House of Commons for not making a contribution to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u74	For a possible answer, we must do it right after, Madam Secretary of State, because it becomes complicated if our colleague is no longer there. Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u75	I would like to stress, Madam Secretary of State: I hope that the department will be able to influence the discharge route referred to above in order to find a comprehensive solution. One problem should not be solved by creating another on the north-north tip of the department of Meurthe-et-Moselle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u76	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor to put his question, No. 448, concerning the Epinal-Saint-Dié-des-Vosges railway line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u77	I associate myself with my question, Mr Stéphane Viry, Member of Parliament for Epinal. The decision to suspend traffic on the Epinal-Saint-Dié-des-Vosges section of the SNCF Epinal-Strasbourg line will apply from 22 December for security reasons linked to infrastructure that has not been the subject of investment or maintenance for too long. Admittedly, suspending does not mean deleting, but you will understand, Madam Secretary of State, that the concerns are legitimately strong. For its part, the region commits itself beyond its competence on infrastructure works, within the framework of the State-region plan contract, to respond to the urgency of the work on SNCF lines. The State has already made commitments on the future of this railway line twice: first, during its visit to Saint-Dié-des-Vosges on 18 April 2018, and then during its memorial roaming in the Great East on 5 November last, the President of the Republic announced that the railway traffic would be maintained between Epinal, Saint-Dié-des-Vosges and Strasbourg; Then, during her interview on RTL on November 26, 2018, the Minister of Transport confirmed that this line was well taken into account. In order to make concrete progress and fulfil the commitments of the President of the Republic, it is now up to the State to decide on the means it intends to allocate to the regeneration of such a line, or to give the voluntary regions, such as the Greater East Region, the financial means necessary to take on new responsibilities in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u78	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u79	As you recalled, the President of the Republic and the Government have committed themselves to the Epinal-Saint-Dié-des-Vosges line, and more generally to the small lines essential for the vitality of our territories and the daily transport of many French people. The safety of users of these lines remains, of course, the highest priority. However, the gradual deterioration of the infrastructure of the line, in particular the Vanémont tunnel, makes it necessary for traffic to be temporarily suspended from 22 December next. I would like to confirm that this is not a closure but a temporary stop to traffic in order to avoid any risk to our citizens and to users. In this context, a reflection is under way to determine the technical, legal and financial solutions to ensure the future of the Epinal-Saint-Dié link. In partnership with the Grand Est region and SNCF Réseau, the ministry launched this fall a study including the search for innovative ways of operating and managing the line. It will help to define the best possible answers to ensure the daily journeys of the inhabitants of these areas of life and jobs. Pending the rehabilitation of the line, an alternative bus offer will be implemented by the Greater East Region, the regional rail transport organizing authority, in order to offer an alternative to users during the suspension of traffic. As you know, the worrying state of this line is symptomatic of the status of the territory's fine line network. For example, the need to upgrade small railway lines amounts to more than 300 million euros for the Greater East region alone. The Minister of Transport also called for a new approach to deal with all these small lines. The aim will be to conduct, in a region-by-region partnership between the State, the regions and SNCF Réseau, work to identify the different technical, organisational, financial and contractual solutions, in order to mobilise all possible room for manoeuvre to ensure the safeguarding of this part of the railway network. This will lead us to develop regional and concerted strategies to meet the needs of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u80	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u81	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for confirming that suspending does not mean deleting. But you obviously understand the concern of the territory concerned. This line is necessary to irrigate a whole space that goes from Saint-Dié, from the area of Bruyères, to Epinal; It corresponds to local needs but also to the transport needs of students, patients of hospitals or medical practitioners as well as litigants, since the High Court is located in Epinal. It is a mobility response that I hope will be taken into account in the next law. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to the difficulties associated with variable hours, in particular for the connections between the TER and TGV lines. Today, to come to Paris, I take as long as twenty-five years ago, when there was no TGV – a time you must remember, too, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u82	Madam Secretary of State, if you wanted to take the floor, you could now do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u83	Thank you, Mr. President, I will know for the next time. Yes, I am committed to this region and to the history of my family in this region, so we will be committed to the development of these lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u84	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to raise her question, No. 456 on rail freight on the right bank of the Rhône.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u85	I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport, to the consequences of the increase in rail freight on the right bank of the Rhône, and in Ardèche in particular, in the context of the project of railway bypass of the Lyon agglomeration. As a follow-up to this project, the State and SNCF Network have confirmed the objective of developing rail freight, with the result that rail traffic in the Rhône Valley – two thirds of which are on the right bank – has increased considerably, in particular with 1.5 km long marathon trains carrying dangerous materials and crossing Europe under inadequate safety conditions. This increase in traffic on an inadequate and ageing road, which crosses many of our towns and villages, passing close to the houses, will have the effect of greatly aggravating the risks and nuisances, which are already important. But I remind you that the Ardèche remains the only department in the metropolis to be deprived of a passenger line. And in return for what? I would like to stress the concern – very much present in our department – of the populations affected by this circumvention. Since 2012, many elected representatives, of whom I am a member, have mobilized to recall our opposition to the CFAL – the railway route of the Lyon agglomeration – as originally thought, with in particular the reduction of rail freight on the right bank of the Rhône. Together with the inhabitants of the Rhône valley and the association ADRD – the Association de défense rive droite – we call for the construction of a third line parallel to the high-speed line dedicated to freight, or even a proposal for a new route that would avoid the Rhodanian corridor, already far too crowded and which, for its 220000 inhabitants, accumulates too many risks. I would also like to recall SNCF Réseau's commitments to secure the existing freight line, particularly with regard to dangerous level crossings, sound insulation of dwellings and the construction of noise-resistant walls, as well as the installation of a third anti-derailment rail in the communes where the road passes as close as possible to the houses. These commitments have not, to date, been followed by any concrete effects for our citizens. In 2015, Olivier Dussopt, then Member of Parliament for our constituency, had organized a meeting with the Ministry of Transport and had committed himself to the above-mentioned collective to organize the consultation in order to find new solutions to this project which is neither reasonable nor responsible to future generations. I would therefore like to know the status of the project and the measures the Government intends to take to secure the railway lines concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u86	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u87	Madam Member, you are right, if the Government wishes to encourage the development of rail freight traffic, this must not be done at the expense of our fellow citizens. This is why important work has been undertaken in the Rhône Valley to strengthen the sound insulation of the building, thanks to the national programme for the resorption of noise black spots. It is 35 million euros that have been committed by ADEME, the State and SNCF Réseau to deal with more than 4000 dwellings and tertiary buildings located along the existing lines of the Rhône Valley. For the Ardèche department alone, by the summer of 2019 this will represent an investment of 17.5 million euros and the treatment of 1610 dwellings. In addition, an extensive programme for the renewal of railway lines on the right bank of the Rhone is under way by SNCF Réseau, with a budget of €280 million. It will end in 2021. This work will reduce traffic noise through modern devices such as long welded rails or replacement of worn components such as ballast. They will also contribute to improving rail safety, in particular through the establishment of an anti-derailment system at the level of the most sensitive areas. Beyond this, the mobility policy bill, which Ms Borne introduced in the Council of Ministers on November 26th and which will be examined by Parliament in 2019, will be an opportunity to recall that the state will contribute its full share to the security and noise control operations. For example, the Government is firmly committed to the continued resorption of noise black spots, including the installation of noise-resistant walls or the insulation of the facades of the housing units concerned, and the reduction at source of noise related to freight, including by subsidizing the replacement of the car's cast iron brake soles with composite soles, which have proven to be effective. Be assured, honourable Member, that both the government departments and SNCF Réseau will ensure that the implementation of these measures is well under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u88	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for these answers. With regard to security, we are naturally pleased to learn that budgets will be made available to communities. However, I would have liked to have received an answer concerning the east side of Lyon. This CFAL project is very concerned and will have an impact on future generations. I say again, the Rhodanian corridor is already well exposed to many other potential risks. We would therefore really like to know whether this project is moving forward and what the Minister of Transport intends to do about it, because it seemed to us that it had been abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u90	Mr David Habib, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No. 457 on the LGV and the de-enclavement of South Aquitaine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u91	Madam Secretary of State, the constraints of the office of Secretary of State make me address you to express an anger that was intended for Mrs Borne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u92	I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u93	In 2017, after the general elections, three times, the Senator of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, Georges Labazée, the Chairman of the Departmental Council of the Landes, the Member of Parliament for the third constituency of the Landes Boris Vallaud – our constituencies are contiguous – and I myself had asked Mrs Borne for an appointment. It was granted to us; It's been cancelled. We then asked his chief of staff for an appointment: it had been granted to us; It's been cancelled. Then we asked his parliamentary advisor for an appointment: granted and then cancelled! We then learned that Mrs Borne, representative of what is known as the New World, had recently decided to bring together all the deputies of the majority, of the Republic in motion, to discuss the issues of railway development in New Aquitaine. The Socialist and non-attached Members must not, in his view, be legitimate, since they did not invite us to this meeting, when we asked him twice, by mail, to keep us informed of his intentions in terms of investments for the New Aquitaine region. No answer from Mrs. Borne. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, about the South Atlantic LGV development project. This is a heavy investment – EUR 9 billion – which has resulted in an agreement between the relevant authorities involved in its financing, particularly for the Tour-Bordeaux section. They are waiting today, like other communities in the south of Bordeaux, for this investment to be made. However, it has just been announced, through the mobility guidance bill, that it was over. I therefore hope that a member of the Government will have the courage to say it loud and clear, so that in Aquitaine we will finally have the information without any change by the representatives on the spot of this majority – I am thinking of Mr Juppé or Mr Bayrou. Madam Secretary of State, can you confirm that the project is over and that there will be no investment in the south of Aquitaine? I want you to have the courage to say it, because we fought for this investment to be made. At the same time, I hope that you can tell us what your intentions are in terms of railway development. While it takes almost an hour and a half to get from Bayonne to Pau by train today, compared to only three quarters of an hour by car, we are very eager to know what this Government intends to do in the south of Aquitaine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u94	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u95	Mr President, I understand that your question was addressed to Mrs Borne, and I will certainly give her an accurate account of our discussions and your request for an appointment. I have no doubt that you will be granted it in the near future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u96	You have humor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u97	On the substantive question that you are asking, here are the elements that I can bring to you. As you know, the major railway project of the South-West, or GPSO, includes in its first phase the new Bordeaux-Toulouse and Bordeaux-Dax lines, as well as the railway developments of the existing line south of Bordeaux and north of Toulouse. The proposed new line between Dax and Spain is the second phase of this GPSO. The mobility policy bill, which was presented to the Council of Ministers on 26 November, aims to give priority to improving daily transport. With regard to the GPSO project, the bill takes on the principle of a phased realization, starting with operations that first help to de-naturalize the railway nodes and thus promote daily travel. Work will be started by 2022 to improve the capacity and robustness of traffic in the Bordeaux and Toulouse railway nodes. This work, which will provide gains in terms of capacity, robustness and regularity of traffic around these two metropolises, will allow for commissioning during the period 2023-2027. At the same time studies will be launched for the complete realization of the route between Bordeaux and Toulouse, which can be phased in order to prioritise the accesses south of Bordeaux, the accesses north of Toulouse and the section of the Toulouse-Agen line. Finally, work will be continued with local authorities in order to clarify the conditions under which the establishment of dedicated resources would make it possible to anticipate the timetable for the implementation of the Bordeaux-Toulouse line. The aim will therefore be to mobilise all possible room for manoeuvre to modernise the existing Bordeaux-Hendaye line, which will benefit from €490 million of SNCF Réseau investments, in order to lift the slowdowns between Bayonne and Hendaye but also to improve the journey time between Pau and Hendaye. In addition, permanent counter-sense facilities between Morcenx and Dax, which are listed at 54 million euros in the State-region plan contract, are under way for a mid-2019 commissioning. They will improve the quality and reliability of traffic, as well as better management of hazards on the Bordeaux-Irun line. The consolidation of the Bordeaux-Hendaye axis can continue beyond 2020 by creating new IPCS steps – permanent counter-sense installation – between Gazinet and Lamothe, as well as between Lamothe and Morcenx. Finally, the State-region plan contract provides EUR 45 million for the restructuring of the Bayonne station and the adaptation of the railway plateau and EUR 75 million for additional investments on the axis to carry out capacity improvements between Hendaye and the Spanish border. So be sure of the commitment of both the State and Mrs Borne to rail accessibility in southern Aquitaine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u98	Mr. David Habib has the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u99	I thank the Secretary of State for giving me only fifteen seconds to tell her that I am very disappointed, and the Béarnais, I imagine, with me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u100	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to put his question, No. 459, on the deviation of Châtenois.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u101	Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the circumvention of the commune of Châtenois, which is carried by the State services. It is an euphemism to say that the realization of this infrastructure is eagerly awaited. The only West-East traffic axis between the Vosges and the centre of Alsace, the RN 59, which leads from the Maurice Lemaire tunnel, drains inter-regional traffic, especially heavyweight traffic, as well as the traffic of private individuals travelling daily between the valleys of Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines or Villé and the Sélestat region. Twenty thousand vehicles are thus obliged to cross the commune of Châtenois, an essential stage of this route. The traffic jams they cause may be less publicized than those in Strasbourg, but they are just as real, as are the nuisances for residents, motorists, the environment and the economy, to name but the most notorious. For more than ten years now, the realization of the deviation is promised and the funding has been raised. In November 2017, Ms. Borne assured me by mail that the work would begin in mid-2018 and that the objective was a start-up in 2020. Recently, a letter from the prefect of Bas-Rhin confirmed to the mayor of Châtenois the importance he attached to this file. While these guarantees are certainly reassuring, in practice, apart from the work of setting up a roundabout, presented opportunely as work related to deviation, nothing seems to be moving forward. As a result of the successive postponements of work in recent years, concern is gaining ground again. Can you therefore, Madam Secretary of State, confirm to me that the commitments made will be fulfilled and, if possible, indicate within what time frame they will be?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u102	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u103	Mr President, Mrs Élisabeth Borne has instructed me to answer the important question of the Châtenois deviation on which you are questioning him. I confirm the importance attached by the Government to this deviation, which will reduce the nuisances suffered by residents of RN 59 and contribute to the improvement of safety on this national road section. I would like to assure you that he is very committed to the good progress of this operation, especially since, as you say, the funds needed to carry out the project have been raised. As you have pointed out, the schedule of work has indeed been different from the deadlines initially announced: this is due to particular vigilance given to the environmental procedures required by the operation. However, I can tell you that important steps in the project have recently been taken. Thus, work on the layout of the roundabout you mentioned began on October 15. The construction of this giratory will contribute to the safety of RN 59. With regard to the detour of Châtenois per se, detailed design studies have been completed. The environmental authorisation dossier has just been forwarded to the Environmental Authority, which will shortly deliver its opinion. The public inquiry will be held in early 2019. Once the administrative procedures have been completed, the beginning of the work of the bar is of the deviation will take place in the summer of 2019. This work will continue in 2019 and 2020 through the restoration of secondary roads and the construction of works of art. The Government will pay attention to the good continuation of the operation: the prospect of a transfer of the RN59 to the future European community of Alsace does not in any way instigate our determination regarding the progress of the project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u104	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u105	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for these words which confirm the State's interest in this infrastructure. This is essential if alternative transport is to be proposed to passenger transport, in particular public transport, which is at the heart of the current situation. Indeed, without removing the current roads, it is not possible, for example, to operate bus lines in good conditions. This axis also has a strategic interest, since it leads to Germany and that, in the context of the rapprochement of the French and German economies and with a view to the revision of the Franco-German Treaty of Friendship, its realization would be a strong symbol of our willingness to work and exchange more together. I will therefore continue to be very attentive to the good progress of this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u106	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u107	This point of order concerns the proper conduct of the proceedings. Earlier, Madam Secretary of State, I asked you a question about the Charles-de-Gaulle Express and the transport network in Seine-Saint-Denis. In your reply, you stated that the Charles-de-Gaulle Express was on the Paris bid file for the Olympic Games, which is not correct. I therefore pointed out to you that there could be disagreement on transport networks and public investment priorities, but that there was no need to lie to national representation in support of its argument. You didn't think it was right to answer me. So I left the Chamber. However, by following the debates on the television screens, I saw that you had responded in my absence, arguing that you had not lied. I find that, in terms of the rules of procedure and the proper conduct of the proceedings, the procedure is not correct. That is the meaning of my point of order. I do not wish to prolong the debates, but, for following this dossier correctly, I maintain that the Charles-de-Gaulle Express was not included in the Paris bid file for the Olympic Games. You want to support this project ten times more than the investments you make in so-called "classic" public transport, of which the RER B is part. I confirm my disagreement. I think you do not serve the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis by doing so. Above all, Madam Secretary of State, let us continue to exchange factual arguments, let us not lie or correct our remarks when the interlocutor is absent from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u108	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u109	Mr President, I am very happy to acknowledge my inexperience in procedural matters. I should have answered you at the end of your speech; If I have not done so, it is simply because of a lack of knowledge of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. I commit myself to acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's the procedure. Thank you for taking the floor again, which will allow me to respond. If I do not come back to the substance – I understand that we may have different views on the appropriateness of such an investment – I would like to point out that, in my reply, I simply indicated that this equipment would be put into service for the 2024 Olympic Games, in accordance with the Government's commitment. I did not mention the application file, you will not find these words in my remarks; I simply recalled a temporal commitment. So I totally refute the assertion that I would have said a lie. It was important not to allow the Government to increase its belief that it could lie to national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u110	The principle of these sessions, the Secretary of State, is that an issue is held in six minutes, as part of an interactive process. That deadline should be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u111	All right, Mr. President. I'll be more attentive from now on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u112	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to put her question, No 462, on the State's commitments to the Poitevin Marsh.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u113	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. I would like to ask the Government about the State's policy towards France's second wetland, the Marais Poitevin, an exceptional national heritage, while half of France's wetlands have been destroyed in recent years. This exceptional territory led to a 1999 conviction of France by the Court of Justice of the European Union because of the process of degradation that was reaching it. This condemnation led the then government to launch a government plan for the Marais Poitevin, in the framework of a contract with the local authorities, which allowed the reconquest of several hectares of wet meadows thanks to measures in favour of the maintenance of the breeding, the creation of a "Grand site de France", the reconquest of the label " Parc naturel régional" and which led to the creation of a public establishment responsible for water management. All this was financed through a dedicated action under the PITE, the State's territorial intervention programme. This action, the previous government – the problem is not today – had already divided the appropriations by three since 2015. The current government is doing something else: in the new finance bill, without any consultation with the territory, the action is simply abandoned, since the amount of commitment authority is zero. You might think that's not a problem, if everything had been fixed. But that is not the case. There has already been a reduction of 2,000 hectares in the areas under contract with the herders for the maintenance of the meadows. Above all, while the landscape of the Poitevin Marais is affected by a disease called "chalarosis of the ash", all the actions of the regional natural park are endangered by the budgetary loss represented by the abolition of the action of the PITE. My questions will therefore be simple – I have asked the Government several times. First, is the Government ready to work with local authorities to develop a new plan for the Poitevin Marais? Secondly, what emergency solutions can be found so that the regional nature park can carry out its actions in 2019? We have been told on several occasions that financing via the PITE will be substituted for appropriations under common law. At the moment, however, we have not seen the colour of these credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u114	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u115	Madam Member, you have asked Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, about the situation of the Poitevin Marais. In his absence, it is up to me to answer you. At the end of 2018, action 06 of the State Territorial Interventions Programme, "Government Action Plan for the Poitevin Marais", will come to an end. The various actors of the territory, including the regional natural park and also the prefect of the region and the regional direction of the environment, planning and housing – DREAL – have since this summer asked the Minister of State to ensure that credits under common law take over, in particular through the programme 113, "Landscapes, water and biodiversity". Two types of biodiversity operations were previously funded by the State's territorial intervention programme: marsh contracts, through a grant from the Poitevin Marais Public Establishment, the EPMP, and various actions carried out by the Regional Nature Park and the Regional Conservatory of Natural Areas. More specifically, with regard to new marsh contracts, the need for financing for 2019 is around EUR 150000. These contracts will again be subsidized by the Public Establishment of the Marais Poitevin through the appropriations allocated to it through Program 113 under its allocation for public service charges. With regard to the interventions carried out by the Regional Nature Park and the Regional Conservatory of Natural Areas, estimated at EUR 518000 in State aid, the Water and Biodiversity Directorate will exceptionally increase for 2019 the allocation of the programme 113 of the DREAL of Nouvelle-Aquitaine to this amount, in order to take charge of these actions, in interaction with the DREAL of Pays-de-la-Loire. This exceptional staffing is to be reassessed. The DREAL of Nouvelle-Aquitaine will be invited to work in 2019 with the various structures concerned to ensure that they target and prioritize their interventions to the maximum extent possible. Actions to protect this exceptional wetland will therefore be maintained in 2019 for all aspects of landscape, water and biodiversity. There is no disengagement of the State in this regard. On the other hand, in order to consolidate the work carried out in this territory and given the progress still to be made, in particular with regard to the contractual formalisation of the relations between the actors, I consider that at this stage the presence of the State within the Poitevin Marais, through the legal person of the Poitevin Marais Public Establishment, remains necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u116	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u117	Thank you, Minister, for this new information. I hope that this will make it possible to avoid the demobilisation of the actors in a hurry. This is a first step, which needs to be confirmed, particularly with regard to actions aimed at the agricultural and herding world, since the PITE carried out an important co-financing of agri-environmental measures. These will remain co-financed until 2020, but provision should be made for the following now. On the other hand, I have heard your reply concerning the maintenance of the public institution. The clarification was important because we were concerned, in particular with the submission of a report from the General Inspectorate of Finance, and with Bercy's repeated year-on-year desire to question the existence of this public institution. However, it is not through the EPMP that we can meet our request for a new contract, or it should be included in the EPMP's missions, because the law currently governs its functions without giving it the opportunity to exercise such prerogatives. I acknowledge the Government's first response and hope that further work will go beyond an emergency response.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u118	Mrs Clémentine Autain has the floor to put her question, No. 431, on the Charles de Gaulle Express.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u119	My question is to the Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport. Like my colleague Stéphane Peu, it deals with the realization of the Charles-de-Gaulle Express. This is a concrete example of a decision that can improve or aggravate the social and ecological situation. The inhabitants of the cities I represent are among the 870,000 daily users of the RER B, the 870,000 people who live the delays, cancelled trains and who must justify their absence from their employers. I saw mothers crying in a car because the train was at the stop, so they wouldn't arrive at the nursery on time. These 870,000 people fear morning and evening the long hours spent in crowded transport. For years, local and elected groups have been fighting to obtain additional resources to improve a situation that has truly become invivable. What do they learn today? That the State has made the choice to invest 1.7 billion euros in public money in the Charles-de-Gaulle Express, a train that will reduce travel times for 17,000 well-off passengers, since it must connect Paris to Charles-de-Gaulle airport for the sum of 24 euros. Your obsession with competitiveness and comfort for the richest has taken precedence over the improvement of daily life for the large number. To take up an expression dear to the yellow vests, once again, and in a very concrete way, you did "first". Meanwhile, the inhabitants of the big suburbs are watching the train again. The renovation of the RER B and the realization of lines 16 and 17 of the supermetro are lagging behind. We were waiting for the opening of these lines by 2024. Finally, not a station will come into being until the Olympic Games. Delivery of the lines has been postponed to 2030. It is not surprising that people continue to drive to try to get out of the mess and that, during rush hours, traffic jams continue to seriously pollute the atmosphere and the quality of our daily life. Madam Secretary of State, there is an urgent need – especially given the social context and the anger that is expressed, precisely in relation to these issues concerning social and territorial equality. Investment in public transport cannot wait any longer. The energy transition – of which the President of the Republic did not speak at all yesterday – will not take place if the State does not choose to put means, up to the needs, to accompany the most fragile people and territories in this necessary change of mobility. The reduction of congestion in the north-east of the Seine-Saint-Denis is an issue of equality. Could you tell us that they are the Government's priorities to combat this territorial inequality of mobility and to make the daily transport of the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis just liveable?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u120	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u121	Madam Member, you have kindly questioned Mrs Borne; cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. I agree with you on the importance of daily transport; As you know, this is the Government's priority. The State therefore invests heavily to improve the functioning of transport and to develop it. The Ile-de-France State-region plan contract provides for €7.6 billion in investments from 2015 to 2020, which represents a considerable effort for the state budget. These include financing the RER and Transilian master plans, the Eole extension, the line 11 extension, new trams, high-service buses and multimodal hubs. You are quoting the case of RER B, a major north-south axis; This line has benefited from an investment of 215 million euros between 2015 and 2017 and Île-de-France Mobilitys is currently working with RATP and SNCF to prepare the arrival of new trains, more comfortable and of greater capacity. Major road and catenary renovations are also planned by SNCF Réseau on this axis. Moreover, the Charles-de-Gaulle Express project should not be opposed to everyday transportation, as it pursues a different objective: it is intended to connect the metropolis to its main airport. In addition, EUR 180 million will be invested in the RER B under the Charles-de-Gaulle Express. The latter, which is not directly funded by the public community, will be put into service before the 2024 Games. Finally, the Grand Paris Express project will complement the existing network – combining RER, Transilien and metro – by means of interconnections, thus offering the Francilians an additional means of transport, mainly in a ring road. It will result in significant gains in travel time on many commuter to suburban routes and will unload the existing network. In the long term, 200 kilometres of lines will be built, i.e. as much as the length of all the lines of the current network of the Paris metro; They will represent EUR 35 billion of investment. The inhabitants of Seine-Saint-Denis will be among the first to benefit from it, thanks to the commissioning of line 16 until Clichy-Montfertil by 2024. In addition, lines 15 East and 17 will complete the network in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u122	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u123	I'm not sure you fully understood the question I asked you. In essence, the issue is not whether, in an ideal world, it would not take a Charles-de-Gaulle Express: why not, after all? But understand that, in the current situation of saturation for the population, it is a symbol: the inhabitants obviously take very badly the fact that we invest in a luxury metro – 24 euros to circulate! – while, for our part, investments are falling behind. You mentioned Clichy, but I would point out to you that the project of arrival to our home is lagging behind the announced investments on the super-metro lines, and that the RER B is not yet the subject of clear commitments regarding the renovations that would allow it to function properly within a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u124	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, to put his question, No. 432, on the presumption of wage-earning for retired farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u125	My question, Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, concerns the systematic refusal to remove the presumption of wage-earning for retired farmers who apply for membership with the Mutuality Sociale Agricole, the MSA, as forest entrepreneurs, in particular for slaughter work. The reason given is that the requirement of professional capacity or experience is not met. However, for several decades, in addition to their agricultural activity, the persons concerned had been engaged in an activity of abattoir, which had been proved by statements of invoice. Why oppose them in this case a lack of professional capacity? Pursuant to Decree No. 2013-528, they were affiliated with the MSA in the framework of the provision of forestry works service, identified by a SIRET number for the Directorate-General of Taxes, in respect of the activity of felling trees, and were subject to the various contributions, taxes and taxes as entrepreneurs. In addition, after exercising their pension rights, they can avail themselves of a genuine operating autonomy by registering in the commercial register or by affiliation to a management centre, a condition required by Article L. 722-33 of the Rural Code. As for the requirement to hold a diploma in an option relating to forestry work of at least a level corresponding to level IV, it is only a condition of necessary capacity if the conditions of professional experience and operating autonomy are not met. These releases are particularly detrimental for pensioners who have a very low pension and wish to supplement it with a reduced activity, often responding to the demand of their entourage – small cuts of thinning, firewood – sometimes also to the demands of forestry companies or sawmills when mechanical felling is impossible – there is a lack of loggers for this type of work. Minister, can you give me more details on the application of the legislation in force and, if necessary, on the possibility of changing it so that refusals are no longer systematic?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u126	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food – whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u127	Mr President Chassaigne, it may indeed take – perhaps you will be in a good position to see to it – that legislation evolves in order to solve this problem. Since the Law of 4 December 1985 on the management, recovery and protection of the forest, every person employed, for remuneration, in carrying out forest work is the subject of a presumption of wage-earning. Due to the accidental nature of forest work – an important element that cannot be left aside – it is a matter of ensuring that people working in the forest benefit from social security coverage relating to occupational risks. It is only for persons with certain guarantees of training, experience and operating autonomy that the presumption of wage earners is lifted and that the status of forestry contractor is recognized. The legislator – you yourself, therefore – also considered that, by way of exception, these conditions were deemed to be satisfied by farmers who wished to find additional income in carrying out secondary forestry work. However, once a farmer has claimed his pension rights and has ceased his activity, he no longer benefits from this exception and is subject to the same cumulative requirements of professional capacity or experience and operating autonomy as any person wishing to pursue the occupation of forest work contractor. Therefore, in accordance with the rules, retired farmers who wish to carry out logging work as a forestry contractor must satisfy these conditions. I want to point out that in 2017, according to MSA data, the number of accidents at work on wood farms was very high – 84 accidents per 1000 farmers – and that, in the agricultural sector in general, accidents are particularly common among farmers over 60 – 37 accidents per 1000 farmers. Particularly sensitive to this aspect, I consider that the current legal framework is appropriate and that the training or qualification supplements provided are desirable and, above all, protective. If you want them to evolve, you will have to work on them; Perhaps even the Government might be in favour of this development if you manage to closely monitor the security and insurance arrangements. As for the agricultural pensions, which you have, I know, repeatedly tabled a bill, it is within the framework of the great law that High Commissioner Jean-Paul Delevoye is preparing with the Government that we can work towards their increase, because they are far too weak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u128	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u129	Thank you, Minister, for your presence and for your very precise answer. Two remarks, however. First, with regard to agricultural pensions, the future law will not be retroactive: the financing of pensions for current agricultural pensioners will continue to be a problem even after pension reform. My proposals on this subject therefore remain entirely valid. Secondly, I ask you to send a note to the MSA and the departmental directorates of the territories – DDT – because the legislation is applied with excessive rigour: people who have 40 years of experience and are able to prove it by means of invoice statements could still be allowed to carry out slaughter work without having to, at 60 years, re-do a six-month internship! The selection by ASMs should be reviewed and DDTs should be able to issue favourable opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u130	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor to raise her question, No. 435, concerning the free parking of disabled persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u131	Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, we are all aware of the difficulties faced by persons with disabilities in carrying out everyday activities. These global difficulties are a real obstacle to mobility and thus increase inequalities. Yet inclusive society is a five-year priority and mobility a freedom that must benefit all. This was also the meaning of the Act of 18 March 2015 to facilitate the parking of persons with disabilities holding the parking card. However, there is a long way to go from this law to reality, especially since the reform of the decentralization of paid parking, which came into force on 1 January 2018. In fact, some municipalities delegate the task of monitoring parking and sanctioning improper parking to private companies, which use scanner-type vehicles, with automatic reading of license plates. The agents responsible for monitoring the payment of the parking fee then use the data collected by the automated reading devices of the registration plates to determine the amount of the post-parking package without having previously found the absence, against the windscreen of the parking vehicle, of an inclusion mobility card including the mention "parking for disabled persons" or of one of the former parking cards for disabled persons entitled to free parking. I will take the example of a fellow citizen of my riding with a disability, who holds a PMR parking card – for people with reduced mobility. On 27 April 2018, he received an FPS payment notice – a post-parking package – for failing to pay the fee when parking his vehicle in Marseille; However, he had placed his parking card for disabled persons above the dashboard of his vehicle. On 5 September, still in Marseilles – where he regularly goes because his daughter is studying there – he was fined 135 euros for "very embarrassing parking on a parking spot reserved for vehicles with a parking card for disabled people", while his parking card for disabled people was again on top of the dashboard. Madam Secretary of State, could you tell us what measures are going to be taken to ensure that the right of disabled persons to free parking is respected in all the cities of France, without any other action than the affixing of the parking card for disabled persons above the dashboard of the vehicle, that the competence to control parking is exercised directly by the cities or delegated to a private company?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u132	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u133	Madam Member, the reform of paid road parking, applicable since January 1, 2018, does not call into question the free parking granted by the Act of March 18, 2015 to holders of the disabled parking card or the inclusion mobility card bearing the word "disabled parking". Since this is a decentralized reform, it is up to the communities to implement it in accordance with the legislation in force. If some of them, or their providers, as in the case of the city of Marseille, decide to use technologies such as the use of vehicles with automatic plate reading systems – LAPI – they must do so in accordance with the recommendations that the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, CNIL, published on 14 November 2017 as part of the preparation of the reform. In addition, noting the difficulties encountered by persons with disabilities in asserting their rights – be assured that I know them: I receive letters on this subject every day – the associations of elected representatives, in liaison with the State services and representatives of persons with disabilities, in particular the APF France handicap, are currently preparing a recommendation note for the communities concerning the parking of persons with disabilities; It should be aired before the end of the year. The aim is to recall the existing legal framework and to highlight the good practices observed locally in some cities. Failure to comply with this legal framework, in particular the free parking of vehicles, in particular any undue verbalisation, would be subject to judicial review and punishment. The Commission for the Litigation of Paid Parking, a specialised administrative court, has already begun to rule on appeals brought by holders of the above-mentioned cards. It is not for people with disabilities to suffer the consequences of malfunctions. As far as the particular case of Marseille is concerned, according to the information in my possession, the city has, as early as 2017, presented the scheme it envisaged to all local associations representing people with disabilities, which have validated it. There are no fewer than three options available to guarantee free parking. The person with reduced mobility who holds the European parking card or the inclusion mobility card, or the person driving or accompanying it, shall enter the vehicle's registration number to the nearest timer, by pressing the "PMR" button at his disposal on the device. The free ticket is then edited and must be placed, with the PMR card, prominently, behind the windscreen. Like all other users, the person with reduced mobility, or the person who drives or accompanies him, can also perform the same manipulation using a mobile app available on a smartphone without moving to the timer. It therefore obtains a free dematerialised ticket, giving the same right to free as the timer. Finally, the person with reduced mobility residing in Marseille can move closer to a pre-registration service that allows him to park without having to make formality to the horoderator. The person registers with the city provider's subscription service. This subscription is free of charge. Thus, when parked, the control car will automatically identify the vehicle. You see that despite the good intentions there is still a lot to do – so rely on me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u134	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u135	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I will ensure that the people in my constituency have the right information. Indeed, when the persons concerned arrive in a city they do not know, they do not, precisely, go to the horoderator and are punished.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u136	Mr Yves Daniel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 442, on the obligation to employ disabled workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u137	Above all, I would like to commend the Government's strong actions in favour of disability. Since May 2017, France has made integration into the ordinary company the focus of its policy: "Cap to the inclusive company 2018-2022", a fixed-term contract "step-stone", measures included in the Skills Investment Plan. In addition to this, the law on the freedom to choose one's professional future, which provides, inter alia, for the introduction of disability references in apprenticeship training centres – CFA – and for the increase of training rights for all beneficiaries of the obligation to employ disabled workers – OETH – as well as the abundance of 800 euros of vocational training leave – CFP – for persons with disabilities and staff in establishments and services providing support through work – ESAT. However, I would like to draw your attention to the reform of the OETH provided for in this law. To date, employers have been able to meet their obligations up to a maximum of 50 per cent through the use of service or subcontracting contracts with the protected or adapted sector. This option was abrogated by the reform of the OETH with a view to improving direct employment in enterprises. The employer will therefore only have two options to meet its employment obligation: either to respect the employment rate of disabled workers or to contribute to the Management Association of the Fund for the Integration of Disabled Persons, AGEFIPH. This new approach may reduce the financial compensation for some ESATs and therefore endanger the employment of people with disabilities. The reform therefore risks, a fortiori, removing persons with disabilities who, for the most part, do not have the capacity to access the ordinary environment from employment. On the other hand, the current regulations exclude ESAT employees from many advantages such as the payment of premiums or the benefit of all other conventional rights specific to other employees. So, Madam Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, I would like to know whether a decree is intended to take into account the efforts of employers in the ordinary environment, in particular their economic cooperation with ESATs and with the appropriate companies. I would also like to know the Government's position on the development of the legal framework for workers with disabilities in ESATs in order to bring it closer to that of other employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u138	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u139	Thank you, honourable Member, for this question because it allows me to remove fears, which have been heard several times, and which have no basis whatsoever. The law on the freedom to choose one's future as a professional did not put an end to the possibility or interest of outsourcing to the appropriate sector or to the protected sector, for companies which had to fulfil the obligation to employ disabled workers. Subcontracts remain well taken into account, as set out in section 67 of the Act, which I invite everyone to consult. It is only the form of this consideration that is evolving, to be just as stimulating but much simpler, in terms that we are clarifying in consultation with the disability sector and the social partners. I repeat my commitment, which has not changed: the new rules of calculation will be neutral on the use of subcontracting. They won't be less incentive. Our support for the adapted sector is unwavering: on 12 July we signed with Muriel Pénicaud a national commitment to create 40,000 additional jobs in adapted enterprises, with an unprecedented budgetary effort that will bring public aid to 500 million euros by 2022 and which is also accompanied by an important work by this sector to renovate its economic model and strengthen its inclusive model. This is an ambitious project that we have opened; He's a bearer of hope. We will find concrete, pragmatic, real solutions for those who need them most, through collective mobilization, the liberation of energies and by accompanying innovation, provided we have the courage to transform. Our goal is clear: more disabled workers in employment. Their current employment rate in the private sector is only 3.4 per cent, for a target of 6 per cent. This situation is not acceptable and we are taking the measures that will finally make it possible to move forward by promoting the employment of disabled workers in all its forms. Finally, as regards the legal and regulatory framework governing disabled workers in ESAT, it is recalled that these workers are not employees within the meaning of the Labour Code but users of that establishment or service. They are not linked to the ESAT, which receives them through a contract of employment, but through a contract of support and assistance through work. As such, they are entitled to a range of rights, including guaranteed remuneration, leave or training. ESAT workers with disabilities may also receive incentive premiums based on the results of the ESAT which employs them. ESATs will also be mobilised in 2019 and a new roadmap will be proposed to support their dynamics and enable their full integration into a diverse career path, which can lead to regular work for disabled workers who wish and can. I hope I have reassured you, honourable Member, of our ambition to accompany all the workers where they are.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u140	Mr Yves Daniel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u141	You have indeed reassured me, Madam Secretary of State. You're talking about a construction site for 2019. It would be interesting for us to be involved because we are working on the ground with all the actors involved in disability – we would thus usefully complement your work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u142	The floor is open to Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, to put his question, No. 460, concerning the health and social vocation of the Lozère.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u143	I have already asked you about the health and social vocation of the Lozère, Madam Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, so you know the subject. So you know that this department has long chosen to deal with disability and addiction. Unfortunately, for several years, the Regional Health Agency of Occitanie – in passing, we would like the action of the RHAs to be more transparent – opposes us the ratio of beds to inhabitants, which is obviously not to our advantage, the department with 78,000 inhabitants. In addition, the doctrine you profess, the doctrine of "all inclusion" poses problems that we have already told you. A meeting was held under the direction of Jean-Philippe Vinquant, Director General of Social Cohesion of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, in the presence of representatives of the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy – CNSA – and the ARS of Occitanie, the departmental council, Jacques Blanc, former president of the regional council, former deputy. It was agreed that audits would be carried out, both on the testing of the reception of elderly persons and on the evaluation of the Lozerian disability offer, in particular with regard to the needs of the two regions Occitanie and Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. Still very concerned about the administrative resistances, I ask you to reaffirm the Government's willingness to approach this issue in all its components and to provide, for the first quarter of 2019, not only a survey of the 27 Lozerian retirement homes – those of a small size, forty beds – and of the 49 centres for disabled people, but also to provide us with paths of evolution of the supply: the Lozère is indeed willing to adapt to all forms of dependency and disability and to provide detailed answers with regard to retirement homes, institutions and services of help through work, ESAT, homes of life, specialized reception homes – MAS – or any other form of reception of disability of an autism, polyhandicap type... I wish for transparency, foresight and humility. The Lozère, sixty years ago, chose to deal with disability with Abbé Oziol, with Jacques Blanc, rapporteur of the guidance law for disabled people, promulgated in 1975. We chose to take care, together with the religious congregations, of people in great difficulty, who were then called the fools – of whom no one wanted. We therefore now have expertise in this area. So we are opposed, I have alluded to it, that we have too many beds... But can you tell me if all forms of disability are taken into consideration? Why, for example, were some 6000 autists sent to Belgium? I would stress that there must be full transparency on the French State's non-responses to certain forms of disability.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u144	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u145	Indeed, honourable Member, we have been working together on this issue for a long time. The Government has embarked on a profound transformation of the medical and social supply for persons with disabilities in order to better meet their needs and aspirations. This transformation, which aims to create a truly inclusive society, is part of the "An Accompanied Response for All" approach, deployed across all departments on January 1, 2018. Among the objectives of this supply transformation, I would like to mention two of them in particular. The first is to develop intensive support in the ordinary environment in order to promote the full participation of everyone in society, in accordance with the aspirations of individuals and the commitments undertaken in the framework of the international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. Second objective: to enable persons with disabilities to be accompanied where they are, in close proximity to their relatives, in order to avoid their departure to Belgium or their "localisation". In this sense, it does not seem desirable for departments to specialize in the reception of disabled people away from home, for example from large towns or overseas. The support of older people follows the same logic: home support is the priority of the French, as shown by the "citizen" consultation carried out in the framework of the "age and autonomy" consultation launched by Agnès Buzyn last October, and the development of an adapted home offer is one of the challenges of the work in progress. It is in this context that particular attention is paid to the department of La Lozère, which is now the French department which has the rate of equipment in places for disabled persons and the highest elderly in France, and which has long been home to many people coming from far beyond its territory. I am pleased to hear you reaffirm your commitment to collective work in this area. Work was initiated in June; they continue with new meetings scheduled in the coming days, relying on a shared diagnosis between the ARS and the departmental council to identify and better respond to the needs of the inhabitants of the department and those of the neighbouring departments and to the needs of evolution of the current offer. The next step, which must also be co-built, will allow the development of a shared roadmap. I stress the concept of co-construction because, as you know, my will is not to impose the solutions and instructions from above, but to mobilise the actors on the ground to find the best solutions. Also, the departmental council and the RSA must be at the heart of the scheme, with the support, as necessary, of the national level, in particular to bring to the knowledge of the actors of the Republic of Slovenia experiences carried out in other regions or to give the actors the methodological tools to change this offer. I welcome the department's recent application to participate in the "100% inclusive territory" approach, which provides a suitable framework for this co-construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u146	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u147	Of course, we have no objection to consultation. Be careful, however, with the idea of proximity to families: disabled people aged 60 sometimes do not have any more; We are happy to receive them and they are very happy to be received in our MAS, in our homes of life and in our ESAT. Attention, therefore, to the doctrine of "all inclusion", Madam Secretary of State, which risks damaging our action in Lozère.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u148	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor to put his question, No. 444, concerning the registration of the Tréfimétaux plant as a friendly site.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u149	In 1891, the Tréfimétaux company, which uses asbestos to manufacture copper sheets and tubes, moved to Dives-sur-Mer, a working-class commune in the heart of my constituency. In 1984, the factory, which employed up to 1000 employees, was closed following a restructuring of the Pechiney Group. In 2007, Tréfimétaux was listed by state decree on the list of establishments eligible for the early cessation of activity allowance for asbestos workers – ACAATA. However, after an appeal by the company in which the State refrained from defending its classification order, it was annulled by the Nantes Court of Appeal on the ground that only 20 persons had been exposed to asbestos. This judgment left the employees stunned. They experienced a deep sense of injustice and felt self-inflicted, exposed to contempt and incomprehension. In fact, it was 300 employees, not 20, who contracted an occupational disease related to asbestos inhalation – the proof being that the primary health insurance fund had admitted, for 160 of them, an inexcusable fault on the part of the employer. In the face of this human tragedy, and in response to the distress of the people concerned, Ministers Touraine and Sapin wrote in October 2012 to the management of the Caisse d'assurance retraite et de la santé au travail – CARSAT – a letter in which they acknowledged the correctness of the request of the Collectif des victimes de l'asbestos de Tréfimétaux. For my part, from the beginning of the legislature, I discussed the matter with the Minister of Labour. In February 2018, the Ministry replied that the Conseil d'État, in its December 2010 decision, had found that the asbestos heat-repellent operations in Tréfimétaux had not been significant enough to justify the establishment's inclusion on the list of those eligible for the CAATA, the early cessation of activity of asbestos workers, and that it was up to the Nantes Court of Appeal to rule on the application for annulment of the implied decision of rejection. In May 2018, the Tréfimétaux elders met with Caen's labour inspectorate. But if they are willingly received, no one really listens to them; They end up dying as a result of their illness in the indifference of the authorities. Sometimes they are told that they should be satisfied that some of them have obtained early retirement. Madam Secretary of State, these workers were poisoned by asbestos, their lives turned into illness and anguish. They ask for consideration, recognition. Reparation for the harm of anxiety will not cure the disease that brings them closer to death every day, but will appease their feeling of injustice. Time is doing its work, and every year there are fewer and fewer people fighting this last fight: 102 have already left and several hundred are sick. Is this the strategy of the state? They can no longer use the language of wood, authorities who do not fulfil their responsibilities and judicial procedures. It is about their dignity, not just a technical, financial or administrative file. These workers want the state to stop denying their victim status. From this denial is born the feeling of injustice which feeds the distrust towards the State, that State which has not come to defend its arrest. Why? That would probably deserve an investigation. Why is nothing moving forward when successive ministers commit themselves? Whose fault is it? Madam Secretary of State, listen to the distress message they send you so that they can regain confidence in the State. They call less for justice than for the recovery of their honour, for them, their families and for those who have left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u150	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u151	Please excuse Muriel Pénicaud's absence. The Government is particularly sensitive to the difficulties experienced by former employees of the Tréfimétaux plant in the municipality of Dives-sur-Mer. Article 41 of the Law of 23 December 1998 on the financing of social security laid down very strict conditions for eligibility for the CAATA scheme. The degree of exposure of employees to asbestos dust and the existence of asbestos-related occupational diseases alone are not such as to justify the inclusion of an establishment on the CAATA lists. The law intended to allow such registration, which could qualify for the early cessation allowance for all employees of the establishment concerned, only because of the significant share of the activity devoted to the production of asbestos-containing materials, flocking and asbestos-causing operations. Thus, the law retains the activities for which the asbestos risk is highest and does not take into account all exposure situations. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the scheme also provides that, from the age of 50 years, persons recognised as suffering under the general scheme from an occupational disease caused by asbestos are also entitled to the CAATA allowance. With regard to the Refimétals establishment, the Council of State, by a decision of 23 December 2010, found that the share of the establishment's activity devoted to asbestos-causing activities was not significant and did not justify its inclusion in the CAATA lists. The Asbestos Tréfimétales collective subsequently re- applied for the establishment's registration. Recently, in the absence of any new legal or factual elements, the Nantes Administrative Court of Appeal, by a judgment of 4 June 2018, rejected the collective's request to set aside the decision rejecting their application for registration. The applicants do not justify any new evidence which would call into question the assessment of the Council of State in its decision of 23 December 2010. You regret it, but unfortunately, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u152	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u153	There is a feeling of total injustice. Why do ministers sign an order and then do not bother to come and defend him when a company – Pechiney – attacks him in court? We have to ask ourselves the question, conduct an investigation. You argue that the share of the activity is not significant. But 50% of employees have been affected – this represents 300 employees today. For some companies in which 4 out of 600 employees were victims, CAATA was accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u154	Mr Terlier has the floor to put his question, No. 437, on the apprenticeship of minors in hotels and restaurants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u155	Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, the law on the freedom to choose one's professional future has made it easier for young minors aged 16 and over to receive them in a professional setting under an apprenticeship contract and a professional contract. From now on, these young people can be assigned to a hotel or catering establishment in the hall, reception or cleaning rooms. The legal framework must ensure that the conditions of reception and employment of young minors are such as to ensure their health, safety and physical or moral integrity. It is in the light of this important objective that we understand the requirement of prefectural registration for all training establishments holding Licence III or IV or small restaurant licence, whether or not the sale of alcoholic beverages is their primary activity. Similarly, we accept the need to regulate the wage-earning activities of minors. The young person cannot work continuously for more than four and a half hours; night work is totally prohibited between twenty-two hours and six hours for young people under 18 years of age, although on an exceptional basis a derogation from the prohibition of night work for a maximum period of one year may be granted from twenty-two hours to twenty-three thirty hours. However, we must recognise that the total lack of flexibility limits the pool of training companies in the catering and hospitality sector in which the employment constraints of minors are perfectly incompatible with an effective distribution of working time, particularly with the hours dedicated to the reception of customers. The obligation to be at least 16 years of age at the beginning of the school year excludes many young people born at the end of the year, who often suffer from having to make an additional school year by following the classical course, which they treat as a waste of time. So, Madam Secretary of State, is the Government considering a derogation to consider age in terms of the calendar year and non-school year? Otherwise, what solutions does he intend to propose to all these motivated young people who are prevented by their young age, for a few weeks or only a few days?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u156	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u157	Please excuse Muriel Pénicaud's absence. The Government is particularly sensitive to the working and employment conditions of young people under the age of 18 and to the prevention of risks to which they may be exposed in their working environment. According to your interpretation, the new provisions resulting from Article 15 of the Act of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future would be inappropriate for young people under the age of 16 who wish to be recruited into apprenticeships or to carry out an internship in the hotel, cafe and restaurant sector. This is not the case, on the contrary. The new provisions have in fact put an end to the general principle of prohibiting the employment or placement in training of any minor under the age of 16 in an establishment falling within the category of drinking establishments. From now on, if Article L. 4153-6 of the Labour Code establishes the principle of prohibiting the employment or intern reception of minors assigned to bar service in an establishment belonging to the category of drinks to be consumed on the spot, it provides for derogations for minors between 16 and 18 years of age, who may be employed in a drinking establishment serving the bar for the purposes of their vocational training, provided that the establishment in which they are accommodated has been granted a prefectural approval. In addition, in the case of minors under 16 years of age, they can now conclude an apprenticeship contract under the new provisions of the above-mentioned Act in order to carry out a period of practical training within an institution, on the sole condition that they are not assigned to the bar service as part of their training. For example, a young person at least 15 years of age can now enter into an apprenticeship contract in hotels, cafes, restaurants and, for example, carry out a practical internship in business at the reception of a hotel. However, the rules on working hours applicable to young people under 18 years of age, particularly those relating to night work, will have to be respected. For example, the new rules on the reception conditions for young people in an establishment in the category of drinks to be consumed on the spot are a response to your concern to introduce some flexibility in the scheme, while guaranteeing a level of requirement as to the working conditions of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u158	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u159	Thank you for that insight, Madam Secretary of State. I took note of the little subtlety that I did not perceive in the application of the law that we voted for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u160	The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, to put his question, No. 461, on the security of the departmental road 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u161	My question concerns the security of two villages located in the territory of Belfort, Lachappel-sous-Rougemont and Roppe, which are crossed by a very passing road leading to the department from Alsace. This road presents the peculiarity of being able to be taken by exceptional convoys which are numerous in an industrial region like ours. This fact prevents communities from developing the road: it is impossible to reduce the width of the road, or to install slow-movers or chicanes. Over time, however, the municipalities have tried to make some improvements. They have, for example, taken orders prohibiting trucks from travelling on this route – it is important to know that it avoids tolls on the highway – but the trucks are free and pass anyway. Gendarmerie forces are doing what they can, but they do not have the means to carry out daily checks. This very dangerous route is a very important nuisance – noise is added to insecurity – for these villages and their inhabitants. For many years, elected officials have been seeking a solution. There is certainly no miracle solution, but recently there seems to be a consensus in favour of the installation of a section radar to control the speed of those crossing the two villages and to solve a real traffic problem. The request comes from both the elected representatives and the prefecture. So my question is simple: would such an installation be possible? A section radar would represent a minor investment, but would really change the lives of the inhabitants. Everyone could only be satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u162	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u163	Please excuse the absence of the Minister of the Interior. You evoke the security of the departmental road 83 which crosses the communes of Lachappel-sous-Rougemont and Roppe. For many years, the inhabitants of these two cities have complained about the insecurity caused by road traffic that is too high. You are also dealing with the movement of exceptional transport in these communes, which, although highly regulated – a request for authorisation 48 hours in advance – is a problem. Departmental road 83 is listed as one of the road networks indicated for exceptional transports of first and second categories. It is also for the transport of 72, 94 and 120 tonnes of the territory of Belfort defined by prefectural decree of 11 September 2017 and contained in the national decree of 5 July 2017 as amended defining the road networks with national scope of exceptional transport. This axis allows the movement of exceptional transports between Belfort and Mulhouse. I repeat, exceptional transports are highly supervised: traffic subject to prefectural authorization, information to managers forty-eight hours before their passage. The departmental road does not seem to us eligible for the installation of a section radar due to the presence of intersections. On the other hand, a lures sign control route – several control announcement signs combined with wide-ranging signs along the road, complemented by moving and mobile controls – could better match the road safety needs you express. It is up to the road manager to request it from the prefecture, who will instruct and validate it. Once these steps have been taken, the road safety delegation will be able to initiate the necessary security work to implement the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u164	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u165	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. There is a possibility, and that is already the case. We can always discuss the type of radar that needs to be installed, but we really need to find a solution. We will transmit these elements to the network manager, so that they can make the appropriate contacts and find solutions, which may not be perfect. The traffic is really very intense on this road. The inhabitants of these two small villages deserve better than the 12,000 vehicles a day that poison their lives. Thank you, anyway. This is a first step, a first door, which we will try to open to bring about a solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u166	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor to raise her question, No. 443, concerning the incidents in Rennes on 31 October 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u167	My question is to the Minister of the Interior. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the forces of law and order and the firemen for their courage and professionalism, particularly in the face of the events of last Saturday and previous Saturdays. In Rennes, we have known for several months, as you know, a resurgence of violence. Between 2015 and 2017, drug trafficking increased by 7 per cent, and property destruction and degradation increased by 12 per cent. More worrisome, voluntary injuries increased by 5% last year. The night of October 31st was particularly symptomatic of this situation, especially in the districts of Villejean and Maurepas, which are part of the electoral district in which I am elected. We have experienced spillovers and risky behaviour: thirteen cars and about twenty trash cans have been burned; Many public goods, including urban furniture, have been degraded. Even more serious, police officers in intervention have been subjected to projectile sprays. These facts are worrying, and minors have often been involved. Two of them were arrested, one of whom was 15 years old and had to be hospitalized following a flashball shot. In this context of tension, similar episodes of violence could occur. Each time, those responsible must be punished. Above all, however, we must be careful to prevent comparable future events at the best. I know that the Government is listening and paying attention to this situation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of the Interior two questions. On the one hand, what answers can it bring to these exasperating episodes for our fellow citizens and for all those – artisans, traders, entrepreneurs – who suffer these degradations? On the other hand, neighbourhoods in our country have been forgotten for too long. I am thinking in particular of the 1514 priority districts of the city's policy. Republican reconquest quarters must be an answer; cohesion between the inhabitants and the police must be found there. I know that the Minister of the Interior is working on this task, particularly in the thirty neighbourhoods that have already been announced. The daily security police are already experienced in fifteen of them. In the Maurepas neighbourhood, northeast of Rennes, in my constituency, tensions are growing and fueling a sense of insecurity. In this context, the people feel helpless and ask me to intervene. Does the Minister of the Interior not think that the daily security police would be an effective solution for resuming dialogue and calming the situation, particularly in the Maurepas neighbourhood? I call once again for its deployment from the next wave, scheduled for 2020, so that no one in Rennes or elsewhere will feel forgotten by the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u168	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u169	Madam Member, I apologize to the Minister of the Interior, who cannot be present this morning. For several years now, the Halloween festival has given rise to urban violence in Rennes and elsewhere in France. This year, a "call for purging" was launched on social networks to attack the police forces directly and free of charge – I join in the tribute you paid to the law enforcement and civil security and firefighting forces, which have been very much sought over the past few weeks. Security measures had been taken, combining local police and a mobile gendarmerie squadron. Despite this arrangement, groups hostile to law enforcement and highly mobile have committed abuses, including bus stones, vehicle fires and damage. Two police officers were slightly injured. To go back to the specific facts that you mentioned, about 50 young hooded people attacked police officers around twenty-two hours in the Villejean neighbourhood. A police officer was shot in the face. In response, another police officer fired at the flashball and reached at the temple the author of the projectile jet. The General Inspectorate of the National Police was seized of the facts by the Rennes Public Prosecutor's Office. Judicial proceedings are under way. An investigation is also being conducted into violence against police officers. In Rennes, the territorial public security services have 631 officers, compared to 618 two years ago, and this number is expected to increase slightly in the coming months. As a result, the city has a higher number of ranks and peacekeepers than its reference force. In addition, 59 territorial intelligence officers are also working on issues related to urban violence and gangs. At the same time, the daily security police are growing in power in Ille-et-Vilaine, as everywhere in France. The department receives specific reinforcements from gendarmes in the framework of this scheme. In addition, in response to the violence of minors, the Minister of the Interior initiated a comprehensive overhaul of the gang control plan, which had been adopted in 2010. I agree with you that we must pursue a cross-cutting policy to combat violence. The Government is committed to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u170	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u171	The daily security police were indeed deployed in the gendarmerie area of Ille-et-Vilaine, but not in the police district of Rennes, despite the will of the prefect of the region, the mayor of Rennes and some of us in this direction, especially from the point of view of methods. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that only a few priority areas of city policy have been designated to experiment with the daily security police. It is important not to create differences between neighbourhoods, which all need police presence and must all be the subject of a republican reconquest, thanks to the daily security police.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u172	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 441, on Steva in Bessines-sur-Gartempe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u173	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of the Steva plant in my constituency in Bessines-sur-Gartempe, in the north of Haute-Vienne. Like the GM&amp;S company, which has been publicized in recent months, the Steva plant is the product of the company Altia, which went bankrupt in 2014. Again in financial difficulty in 2017, this factory, which employs more than 110 employees, is now undergoing its eighth judicial reform. Formerly specialized in the automotive industry, it has been able to diversify and acquire recognized expertise and technical expertise in cutting and stamping and welding assembly, which enable it to position itself on the markets of aeronautics, electric cars or even large distribution, with the production of containers. A connected container project is also under development. The company therefore has many assets and know-how to develop. The improvement of the company's economic situation thanks to a completed order book for several months allowed the deadline for the submission of take-over offers to be extended until January. In spite of this, significant economic difficulties remain, leading to fears of the emergence of an industrial and employment disaster in northern Limousin, following the painful episode of GM&amp;S. Several candidates for the takeover have shown interest, but for the time being none of them has really made any concrete proposal. At issue: the exorbitant rent charged by the civil property society owner of the buildings, which is managed by former executives of Altia; the GM&amp;S owner had to deal with a similar problem. The 25000 euros per month are an important obstacle for potential buyers, who cannot consider economic profitability with such a burden. The reduction of this rent would facilitate the conditions for a recovery. I would like to ask you three questions about Steva, the Secretary of State. On the real estate side, negotiations have been under way since last September between the owner of the buildings and the services of the interdepartmental delegation to business restructuring in Bercy. They concern a possible reduction in rent or the sale of facilities. Can you tell me where these discussions are and where we are going today? From a social point of view, is it possible to set up specific support in view of the staff involved and the sensitivity of the case, linked to the proximity to GM&amp;S? Finally, I would like to know the Government's medium- and long-term strategy to prevent the creation of industrial deserts in rural areas, which are already affected by an unemployment rate above the national average.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u174	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u175	Madam Member, you draw my attention to the situation of Steva Limousin, located in Bessines-sur-Gartempes and placed in judicial review by the Lyon Commercial Court since 5 April. First of all, I would like to assure you that the Government is mobilizing itself alongside the local and regional authorities concerned, particularly in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region, to support the company and offer a perspective to its employees, giving every chance to a takeover offer. Thus, the situation of this company is particularly monitored by the Commissioner for Restructuring and the Prevention of Enterprise Difficulties and by the services of Mr Jean-Pierre Floris, Interministerial Delegate for Enterprise Restructuring. If several companies have indicated their interest, only one offer to take over the site has been submitted to the bodies responsible for the proceedings. Every effort is being made to ensure that it finds a favourable outcome. With regard specifically to the real estate situation of the site, the discussions you mentioned continue with the owner of the premises, in a constructive climate, in order to determine whether the terms of a transaction can be found. To answer your third question, believe that the Government is particularly aware of the importance of industry in the territories. It is in this spirit that we launched the "Industry Territories" initiative. As a result, 124 industrial territories were selected, as this list is neither exhaustive nor closed. This initiative involves moving a number of existing mechanisms specifically to these territories to assist them in new industrial development or to accompany growth already under way. It is piloted, as close as possible to the territories, by the regions as part of their economic competence. They support public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation and industrial representatives under a contract. In this system, the State gives tempo, puts oil in the workings and allocates funds, in order to remedy the specific problems of these territories, which do not benefit from the support of the agglomerations. Projects can involve very high speed, engineering needs, skills support or the carrying of industrial walls – the case you mentioned falls to some extent in this category, Member. This is the toolbox that we are putting at the disposal of these territories, to give them a chance and reverse our country's de-industrialisation curve.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u176	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u177	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. I commend the work of the Government and note its attention to this issue, which is of major importance for my territory. In the current context, I count on this action to support and facilitate the progress of the case, so that my fellow employees in Steva can consider more serene days.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u178	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor to raise his question, No. 445, on the compensation of natural disasters in New Aquitaine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u179	My question is addressed to the Minister of Economy and Finance and is about improving the time frame for the release of funds by insurance companies in the event of a disaster suffered by both professionals and individuals. Unfortunately, these past months have been marked by disturbed weather events – violent winds, hail, floods – which have caused repeated disasters for a number of our compatriots, individuals and businesses. In many cases, the state of natural disaster has been recognized. The New Aquitaine, particularly the Charente-Maritime, my department, has unfortunately not been spared by the weather, as have many communes in the south of France and overseas. As a result, I have been questioned by many of my constituents, farmers, wine growers, artisans and traders, particularly about the delays in compensation, which are considered too long. I know that the Government has made significant efforts to mobilize all actors in the sector. However, it would appear that insurance companies do not adopt the same pace and do not have the same understanding of the situation. The Insurance Code provides that the period within which the insurer must offer an offer of compensation to the insured shall run from the time the insured has informed him of the loss. However, the determination of payment deadlines, i.e. time limits for the application of the compensation proposal, is a matter of contractual freedom between the two parties to the contract. Article R. 112-1 of the Insurance Code states that insurance policies must indicate "the period within which compensation is paid". It is therefore likely to vary from one company to another and from one contract to another. However, in the particular case of natural disasters, Article L. 125-2 of the same Code sets a maximum period of three months for the payment of compensation, which runs from the date of publication of the administrative decision establishing the state of natural disaster if it is after the date of declaration of the disaster. In other words, the legislation does not in any way limit the time limits for payment of compensation, except for contracts for insurance against risks of natural disasters, compulsory motor insurance and construction damage insurance. However, the relative length of these deadlines may lead, depending on the size of the disaster, to serious economic and financial, and even physical and psychological, consequences for the victims. So what means are being used or could be used to improve and harmonize the deadlines for payment of compensation to victims, so that none of our employees, whether private or professional, will be able to experience a situation of distress caused by a lengthy period of compensation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u180	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u181	As you recalled, since 2017, the Government has mobilized with insurance companies to speed up the payment of compensation whenever a serious situation requires it. This was the case after the cyclones Irma and Maria in the West Indies, after the many extreme episodes of floods throughout 2018, or in recent days after the violent deterioration of shops committed on the margins of the demonstrations, in the region and in Paris. However, these delays often remain too long for many insured persons, who need to be able to bounce back as quickly as possible. In some cases you mention, the deadline is regulated, for example for natural disaster cover, which enjoys national solidarity and plays a particular role in the resilience of people and the economy, or for civil liability in the event of a road accident. In other cases, the maximum period of compensation is defined by the contract. It does not seem desirable, in the general case, to standardize such time limits or to impose them arbitrarily on all types of guarantees. However, policyholders can compete each year if they consider these delays too long, and insurers must always do the best they can because this is an essential part of their business. We therefore propose to move towards greater transparency in terms of contracts and deadlines, so as to better highlight the differences. As long as the insured are better informed, they will choose, from among the offers, not the least so-called, but the best so-called.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u182	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u183	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I insist, however, that we must remove the feeling of distress, distress, which I have mentioned, and that we must avoid any tragedy or feeling of abandonment on the part of the victims of disasters, particularly climate change. We must reassure all those affected, as you have done, of the Government's willingness to accompany them in the event of a disaster, so that they can obtain from the insurers the guarantees of prompt payment, indispensable for the continuity of their business and for the smooth functioning of their businesses and their homes. On their behalf, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u184	The next speaker is Mr Olivier Falorni, to put his question, No 452, on construction insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u185	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, the situation is worrying, serious and even tragic for thousands of Frenchmen, soon hundreds of thousands. At the beginning of the month, we learned that an umpteenth insurance company, the Danish insurance company, was in liquidation. This insurance company registered in Denmark has for years marketed in France, under the freedom to provide services, insurance contracts to French individuals and professionals, particularly in the field of construction and ten-year civil liability insurance. The scenario is always the same. Individuals who were victims of miscarriages on a building purchased for sale in a future state of completion – VEFA – or after renovation work discover that their damage insurer, supposed to compensate them for this damage, has disappeared, such as Qudos, this Danish company, or Gable, Elite or CBL, New Zealand insurance groups, on which the Alpha and SFS companies in particular were dependent. As for the promoters or artisans against whom it is possible to turn within the framework of their ten-year responsibility, well, let's say that they were guaranteed by these same foreign low cost insurers, which are outside the control of the French gendarmerie of the sector, the Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de résolution, the ACPR. These structures, often backed up by companies based in offshore countries, are estimated by several insurance professionals to represent approximately 200,000 contracts for damages and ten-year civil liability. The mandatory damage insurance guarantee fund, the FGAO, must cover this type of situation, but its scope is limited. Not only does it not include the 10-year civil liability guarantee for professionals, but only the damage-work guarantee for individuals, but it also covers the activity of insurers in self-service only from 1 July 2018, which corresponds to the entry into force of the order of 27 November 2017 on the taking over of damages in the event of withdrawal of the authorisation of an insurance undertaking, which excludes all insurance contracts entered into or renewed prior to 1 July 2018. Madam Secretary of State, my question is twofold. First, how are you going to act with the CPRA to carry out more effective controls to better protect French insured persons? Secondly, how can the FGAO mobilize to respond to insurance failures and compensate policyholders?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u186	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u187	Since 2003, the national solidarity scheme entrusted to the FGAO has provided a high level of protection for individuals who have suffered damage in the event of the withdrawal of an insurer's licence in the automotive sector or the guarantee of damage to works. The extension of this scheme to insurers operating in France under the freedom to provide services has been effective since 1 July 2018, and covers all insurance contracts subscribed or renewed from that date. This reform improves the protection of private subscribers of damage insurance, while ensuring the financial sustainability of the scheme. In the absence of a harmonised and effective mechanism at European level, in particular through repayments between national guarantee funds, any retroactive extension could have seriously imbalanced the financing of the FGA's default mission or even called into question its very existence. In the case of damage-insured workers who are uncovered, because of the deficiencies that you refer to, for a contract signed before 1 July 2018, a space solution should be possible. In fact, other insurers appear to be able to replace defaulters to offer policyholders a new guarantee to cover claims whose manifestation would remain to come. This would encourage insured persons to enter into new contracts on a voluntary basis. A space agreement between insurers operating in the field of construction would make it possible to adapt pricing and risk selection to take over all policyholders suffering from ongoing failures. Exchanges have been initiated in this direction by my services with the Fédération française de l'assurance – FFA – which has declared itself ready to work on such an option. With regard to compulsory insurance, I would point out that an insured person who would be refused by a requested insurer could appeal to the Central Pricing Office, which has the task of fixing the premium for which that insurer is required to guarantee the risk proposed to him. With respect to the CPRA, I'm back in touch with my services to see how the controls can be strengthened on the point you're referring to. The solution would be in the direction of greater tax transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u188	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor to put his question, No. 458 on the social internet and the digital divide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u189	This morning, the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, to whom I spoke, is not in the loop of oral questions without debate, but, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, I thank you for your courtesy in being with us and I am sure you can answer me. I'm talking about a time that the under-20s can't know. At that time, mayors, elected officials, organized themselves to cable cities. It was brave and quite innovative. These elect, who belonged to the old world, continued in a slightly older world and, when fiber optics arrived, they also deployed it. Some have gone much further. An intercommunal union of the Dunkerquois has deployed the fiber to the home – FTTH – the fiber that arrives at home, i.e. in each home, whether the housing is vertical, horizontal or individual. These communities own the networks. They went even further by deciding to annihilate the social divide. Thus, we suggested to operators who wanted to use our fibre to offer people who could not afford an Internet that was called "household" or "social", so that they could access their bank account or send their tax returns, which was not self-evident. I'm coming to my question. Today we provide a flow rate of 520 kilobits per second, which is quite low. We would like to increase to 1 or 2 megabits, which would seem reasonable, especially in the context of the dematerialization of taxation. However, we are confronted with the chilliness and even the frigidity of the operators, especially of the larger ones, which cannot be attributed to a spirit of lucrativeness on their part or to the desire to achieve higher profits. On the other hand, the supervisory body, the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques et des postes – ARCEP – is perplexed. Sometimes it complicates our relationships. On this particularly topical issue, since it is a matter of social and economic urgency, how far can the Government help us, knowing that we have invested for more than forty years? Perhaps he could even draw on our model to bridge a digital divide that tends to become an additional social divide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u190	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u191	Mr President, France has a particularly competitive market for electronic communications services, with internet access rates among the lowest in Europe for consumers. I stress this, because you have to learn to see the glass half full. The indicators published by the European Commission in the framework of the DESI 2018 – the Digital Economy and Society Index – thus place France at the forefront of tariffs for fixed internet access. However, as you rightly point out, the price of internet access may be an obstacle for some households. It is now imperative to combat effectively a digital divide that would add to the territorial divide. As the President of the Republic has said, "Digitals must not be reserved for the most agile, the most privileged or the most urban. Everyone must find ways to gain autonomy, to have the capacity to act, to undertake and to choose one's life. » This is the meaning of the Government's action within the framework of the France Very High Debit Plan and the national strategy for an inclusive digital, for which you recently voted a €10 million credit. The initiative you are referring to should be encouraged in that it facilitates access to the Internet for low-income households. I would also like to be able to respond to this issue in the context of the forthcoming transposition of the European code on electronic communications, which was adopted by the Council of the European Union on 4 December and which will be published in the coming days. More specifically, with regard to the offer put in place by the SIVU, I understand that this is, rather than direct aid to the households concerned, a particular tariff in the wholesale supply to the commercial operators. The law has laid down principles to be respected by the tariffs of public initiative fibre optic networks set up by the local authorities, for the services they sell on the wholesale market to Internet service providers. ARCEP is competent to examine the tenders concerned and to give an opinion when it considers that the tariff conditions raise difficulties with regard to the principles laid down by law. In this context, it adopted and made public at the end of 2015 tariff guidelines for public initiative networks in fibre optics. I invite you to come closer to it to examine the compliance of this offer with the regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u192	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor to put her question, No 440, on the European Structural Funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u193	My question concerns the administrative simplification of the allocation of European structural funds in France. Madam Secretary of State, Europe is neither a vain word nor an abstraction. France has a €27 billion allocation of European Structural Funds for the period 2014-2020. While we are two-thirds of the programme, only half of the funds have been allocated to projects. The weakness of this rate surprises me in view of the voluntarism of our territories for their development. My discussions with project promoters, whether public or private, reveal their scepticism and discouragement; They sometimes give up the use of these funds. In fact, the files are characterized by great complexity and undeniably cumbersomeness, from the initial application to their closure. For example, the community of agglomeration of Saumur Val de Loire, which has identified needs in its territory, has assigned two people to the exclusive treatment of this type of case, which it also makes available to local project promoters. The applications follow complex administrative procedures, where each stratum imposes its criteria, leading to an aberrant gap between the departure award criteria and those required for the final payment. I also wonder about payment deadlines, which require a serious cash advance; If these are still supportable for certain public structures, they may be unsustainable for private projects, especially since the actual allocation is uncertain. In particular, the ERDF – the European Regional Development Fund – has as its priority to help companies innovate or export. How, in view of the difficulties I have experienced, can a project leader feel encouraged and supported? While the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 is about to be endorsed by the European institutions and the Member States, and recalling that administrative simplification was one of our commitments to the French, I would like to know what measures the Government intends to implement to ensure the optimal use of the European structural funds allocated to France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u194	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u195	Madam Member, the Government is particularly sensitive to the objective of simplifying the management and access to European funds, and has made a special effort on this subject. With regard to the current programming 2014-2020, France has been a driving force since 2015, obtaining the support of many Member States, but also of the European Commission, in order to prepare for the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework and sectoral regulations. Work has been carried out at national level – by the CGET, the Office of the Commissioner-General for Territorial Equality and the Secretariat-General for European Affairs – in order to contribute to the reflection carried out at European level, which led to a regulation called "Omnibus", which entered into force on 2 August 2018, aimed at simplifying access to funds and the management of the European Structural and Investment Funds. On this basis, simplification work continues under the aegis of the GETG in liaison with the managing authorities of the funds, in particular the regions, in order to assist them in the implementation of the new Regulation. In addition, guidelines from the European Commission are being discussed to facilitate the implementation of the Omnibus Regulation. With regard to the forthcoming programming 2021-2027, I would first like to point out that the simplification measures introduced by the Omnibus Regulation have been included in the Commission's new proposals. In its draft new regulations, the Commission has made significant simplification efforts, which have been highlighted by all Member States. Indeed, the Commission has proposed a catalogue of eighty simplification measures, which will, for example, provide a more synthetic and streamlined legal framework from the point of view of eligible topics, faster and strategic programming, simpler territorial tools, a simplified and, above all, proportionate management, control and audit system. Finally, the Government continues to analyse the difficulties encountered by the management authorities. This work should help to identify elements of overregulation at European level, but also at national level, in order to draw all the consequences for the next programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u196	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u197	News shows how much our fellow citizens are looking for efficiency. The dominance of bureaucracy and technocracy has created a distance between our fellow citizens and the major European institutions. I am counting on you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u198	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-11-O1101.u199	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further to the discussion of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill, and the organic bill on strengthening the organization of courts. The meeting is adjourned.
