ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the second part of the 2019 Finance Bill (No. 1255, 1302).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u2	We are dealing with the review of credits for sustainable ecology, development and mobility, and appropriations for the annex budget "Air control and operation", as well as for the trust accounts "Financing Community Aid for Rural Electrification", "Energy Transition", "Aid for the Acquisition of Clean Vehicles" and "National Passenger Transport Services" (No. 1302, Annexes 16 to 19; No 1288, Volumes VI and VII; No 1304, Volume V; No 1285, Volumes II to VIII). This discussion was organized into two distinct sequences. We are starting the budget discussion on ecology and energy. The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u3	Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen of the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, in the first part of the finance bill, we had a rich and constructive debate, albeit sometimes controversial, on the tax measures related to my department's action. I would like to commend the work and involvement of national representation in these debates, which have enabled us to make significant progress by taking on sometimes difficult choices and bringing out new proposals. This second part will allow us to address the financing of the policies of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, and the use of the €34 billion of credits – 1 billion more than last year – that they benefit from. First of all, I want to say a few words about the Government's action in the field of ecological taxation, a sensitive subject that has been the subject of much debate in France for several weeks. Given the confusion – in any case the controversy – that it is the subject of, it is important to distinguish the different aspects of it. The first refers to the greening of taxation, i.e. the use of taxation as a lever for changing the behaviour of French citizens – households and businesses, consumers and investors – and as a tool for coherence. We clearly want to tax more pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. For a long time, France was marked, in this area, as a country lagging behind in the European Union. In 2016, it was thus ranked seventeenth among the 28 Member States for the share of environmental taxation in overall taxation. Today, we are making progress because we have consistently decided and pursued a fiscal policy that is consistent with our ecological transformation project and our action against pollution and for the climate. I would remind you that this increase in ecological taxation is taking place in a context of a substantial reduction in compulsory levies in other areas, a decrease of €4.2 billion for 2019. This is the practical application of the principle that pollution and carbon are taxed more and less the work of the French. The second aspect of the issue – a sensitive topic – relates to the allocation of ecological tax revenues. Many of us are committed to the polluter-pays principle, but ecological taxation, like all other revenues, contributes to the overall financing of public services and investments by the state and local authorities – through their endowments. Let us recall the figures: according to the assessment of the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts, the internal consumption tax on energy products, ICTPE – an acronym that will become famous – will bring back in 2019 to the State 25.4 billion euros, counting the share allocated to the special allocation account "Energy Transition" and to the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, AFITF. Even by adding water charges – 2.1 billion euros – and the general tax on polluting activities, TGAP – 700 million euros – this would only finance 28 billion euros out of the 34 billion euros of the ministry's budget. However, I know of the strong expectation, if not of an assignment, of at least an increase in the means to accompany, support and accelerate the ecological transformation; We will have to continue to work together on this issue. The third question concerns the mobilization of fiscal and fiscal levers of the state to free the French from oil, and more generally from fossil fuels. It is about protecting us in a sustainable way from rising oil prices in global markets and from the devastating effects of climate change. To cope with this, we must encourage the investment of French and our companies in energy-saving equipment. The mechanisms for this policy exist and must be consolidated over time; That's the meaning of the action I'm taking in this finance bill. Among these schemes, which form an integral part of this budget and represent more than EUR 3 billion of aid per year, mention should be made of the tax credit for the energy transition, ISCED, which will in particular allow the replacement of oil boilers; the reduced rate of VAT at 5.5% and the zero-rate eco-loan, PTZ, for energy saving work; Aid from the National Housing Agency, ANAH; or the vehicle conversion premium. The Prime Minister said it here last week: this premium will be renewed, with the aim of reaching 1 million vehicles by the end of the quinquennium, instead of the 500,000 originally planned. We also support the eco-friendly bonus for electric vehicles and extend it to plug-in hybrid vehicles. I would also like to give some examples of spending in this budget. Recent dramatic episodes such as the floods in Aude have reminded us of the urgent need to continue the effort to prevent risks. The funds of the Barnier fund make it possible to mobilise nearly 137 million euros in 2019. The Météo France supercomputer project benefits from €5 million. Biodiversity is also the subject of a series of provisions. The 11th Water Agency Programme represents EUR 12.6 billion for the next six years, with priority given to funding biodiversity measures. The charge for diffuse pollution is also increased by EUR 50 million, which will encourage reduced use of plant protection products and finance conversion to organic farming. In the field of energy, €5.4 billion is spent in 2019 on support for electric renewables. This budget also acknowledges the successful renegotiation of offshore wind fields, which will save €15 billion over the 20 years of contract, and the gradual increase in the heat fund that will reach €300 million in 2019, an increase of 50% compared to 2017. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Elizabeth Borne will have the opportunity to detail the transport measures; I just want to point out that an additional EUR 300 million is intended to improve the maintenance of the road network as early as 2019. Finally, the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition participates in efforts to control operating expenses. If the investment budget increases, the operating budget is reduced by a reduction of 811 jobs. Some missions are nevertheless preserved: those relating to energy and climate, as well as to risk prevention and to independent administrative authorities, in particular to the Nuclear Safety Authority, ASN.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u4	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u5	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I have the task of presenting to you the appropriations for two programmes and two special-purpose accounts comprising part of the mission 'Sustainable ecology, development and mobility'. Unfortunately, Minister of State, I will start with a yellow card because the yellow budget – the report on the financing of the energy transition – was delivered today at 13:30. If you want to be able to debate the figures calmly, the Government must respect Parliament! This budget represents EUR 11.3 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 2.22% compared to the 2018 Finance Act. Almost two thirds of this amount funds the energy transition trust account, which supports the production of renewable energy. In addition to these 11.3 billion, twenty-one tax expenditures are linked to the Mission's appropriations, amounting to €3.2 billion. This budget is, without surprise, in line with the guidelines set out in 2017 when the climate plan was presented, but I will focus on three topics. My first comment concerns the reform of ISCED. Last year, this tax credit was modified to refocus its profits on certain equipment. The reform, carried out without sufficient consultation with professionals, has had important budgetary effects as the cost of ISCED has been divided almost by two, from 1.7 billion euros in 2018 to an estimate of 879 million in 2019. I fear, however, that there has been a boon effect; We will see the impact that this development will have on professionals next year. Very recently, on October 19, you announced that you would like to change this tax credit again to encourage the removal of old oil boilers. Why not, but it would be good to stabilize the arrangements and not to change the rules every year, because households and economic actors need visibility and stability. I say this in the hope that, beyond ISCED, the next revision of the multiannual energy programming will avoid too brutal cuts, particularly in support of small cogeneration with natural gas. Second point: the revalorisation of the energy check. The draft finance law provides for an increase of EUR 50 for this payment document for modest households to an average of EUR 200 per beneficiary household. At first glance, everyone must be satisfied with this measure. However, the energy check responds first of all to social considerations, not to the need to combat CO emissions. We showed last year that it is the households that heat up fossil fuels, especially fuel oil, that benefit most. Indeed, the energy check benefits households regardless of the nature of the energy used. Paradoxically, therefore, a budget intended to support the energy transition can favour the consumption of fossil fuels, which shows the elusibility of the budget model presented to us. I also make a point of common sense: what is the point of raising the energy check by 50 euros if, at the same time, modest households have to pay 200 or 300 euros of additional fuel taxes because of the increase in taxes on petrol and diesel? [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I believe that it has not escaped anyone that our fellow citizens have clearly perceived the negative effects on their portfolio of the increase in pump prices. On the other hand, I do not feel that the revalorisation, interesting but insufficient, of the energy check has convinced them. You welcome the increase in green taxation in the state budget. I leave to you the responsibility for your remarks, which you will assume on 17 November. However, this energy check only covers, like the vine leaf, the main problem which is the structural one of the increase in the carbon tax, which will rise to EUR 100 per tonne of CO in 2030, with VAT revenue being calculated in relation to this rising price. The third point, which relates to the yellow card I gave you at the beginning of my speech, is Parliament's powers in energy matters. This point may seem technical, but it is essential. At present, the budget model supporting energy credits is confusing. Who can, for example, understand that the energy transition trust account does not fund support for biomass cogeneration? There must be real reflection on this point, since we will not have clear debates until we know who is financing what, and in which boxes. In the same vein, I would point out that there are many voices who regret that Parliament has little power in energy matters: the Court of Auditors, the Energy Regulatory Committee, the Senate and several groups in this House. I hope that the next multiannual energy programme will be the subject of a genuine debate in Parliament. In particular, I claim the right of Parliament to determine, each year, in the draft finance bill, a ceiling on public support for the various energy sectors, in line with what the British Parliament is doing. The EWCs – energy saving certificates – should be the subject of debate in Parliament, since 50% of them are financed by fuel prices. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Minister of State, beyond this budget, the revision of multi-annual energy programming must be an opportunity to strengthen Parliament's budgetary powers in energy matters. Considering, in particular, your past responsibilities, you will be very much expected on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u6	Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u7	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Mr Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, we must understand this special report in the light of the issue of global warming. We know that, unfortunately, France is not meeting its commitments under the Paris Agreement in terms of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions: while the objective was to reduce them by 5%, they are still increasing by 3%. That is to say how much priority should be given to the report we are studying today, but even more so to the ecological budget, since the only debt that we should not bequeath to our descendants is ecological debt. Despite this imperative, the 1.77 per cent facial increase in the mission's credits "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" will not even compensate for inflation. Ecological transition is therefore not the government's priority, despite the fine speeches. The overall appropriations for the scope of the special report, i.e. programmes 113, 159, 181 and 217, are almost stable, at EUR 4.5 billion. This means that, for areas as important as water, landscapes, risk prevention or climate and ecological expertise, the amounts in constant euros are decreasing. As for the non-operator employment ceiling, it is rising from 40805 full-time equivalents – FTEs – to 39850, a steady decrease this year of 2.34%. Only appropriations under the 113 "Landscapes, Water and Biodiversity" programme are increasing, to the tune of EUR 15 million. We could welcome this, but how will the Government, which announces an increase of EUR 600 million in the overall budget over four years, honour it by increasing it by only EUR 15 million in the first year? The water agencies, attached to this programme, see once again the annual ceiling of the fees allocated to them decrease by 123 million euros, while their missions are extended and this ceiling amount must also fund the Agence française pour la biodiversité – AFB – and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage. Concrete effect: they must reduce their support for water quality improvement projects, particularly with local and regional authorities. Perhaps this will bring happiness to the private companies that provide water for the municipalities. The National Office for Hunting and Wildlife is in a stalemate. First of all, the ministry announces, for 2019, its merger with the ABB, which will lead to a reorganization whose cost is obvious. Even more serious is the fact that the reduction in cynegic fees, levied on national hunting permits, provided for in Article 75 of the PLF for 2019, will result in a shortfall of €21 million. I have not understood, despite our exchanges in committee, how you will compensate for this, since you refuse to increase the ceiling for water agencies. What I really fear, like many wildlife advocates, is that hunting police and biodiversity protection will eventually be transferred to hunter federations, which would be paradoxical.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u8	It's the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u9	It's like we're transferring to the police... [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister of State, I do not have to hear you in the Chamber when I speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u10	You spend your time doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u11	Usually you're the only one we hear!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u12	You don't have to comment. I'm so sorry. We listen, then we answer: that's the rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u13	We are listening to you, Mr. Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. It is therefore to be feared that the hunting police will be transferred in the short term to the hunter federations, which are, moreover, encouraged to pursue an even greater policy of co-management in the years to come. With regard to the 159 "Expertise, Geographic Information and Meteorology" programme, the budget allocations to CEREMA – the Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, Environment, Mobility and Planning – are down by 2.25% and the job pattern is down by 101 FTEs, while it is a very important operator for risk forecasting. I am thinking in particular of the work to be done on the bridges – these have come to light this summer. It would be necessary to devote money to such missions. As for Météo France, its credits are facially increased: you have announced, Mr. Minister of State, an allocation of 5 million euros for the renewal of the supercomputer. We know that 144 million will be needed between 2019 and 2025. It is difficult to see how it will only be possible to start the work. That is why I fear that they will soon be reduced: how, again, will it be possible to increase from EUR 5 million in the first year to EUR 144 million in five years? You'll probably explain it to us. With regard to programme 181 "Risk prevention", I wonder whether it will not take a new industrial disaster to realize that it is not possible to reduce these appropriations every year. Today, an inspector follows an average of 420 factories. In 15 years, the number of checks has been divided by two. The jewel of the INERIS – the National Institute for the Industrial Environment and Risks – is located in Picardy and which the whole of Europe wants us to see once again a reduction of 11 full-time equivalents. The number of staff decreased by 2 per cent per year. The appropriations for the 217 programme "Management and management of sustainable ecology, development and mobility policies" are approximately stable. I do not know how they will meet the challenge of the energy transition, especially since the budget documentation is very unreadable in terms of appropriations and the trajectory of the workforce, since the appropriations are divided between two departments. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This budget, as you will have understood, does not meet the imperatives of the hour. The same applies to your environmental policy. I am thinking in particular of carbon taxation, which does not concern aircraft kerosene, or of reimbursements of ICTPE – internal consumption tax on energy products. Only individuals who are forced to move are affected. Your policy, which is not ecological, is, on the other hand, very unfair in social terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u15	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u16	Mr President, Mr President, the Minister of State, the special rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, the energy budget, within the mission 'Sustainable ecology, development and mobility', is crucial as the challenges of the energy transition are numerous. We must therefore give ourselves the means to achieve our ambitions. It is more than necessary to encourage the development of renewable energy and recovery, to facilitate balanced network development, to improve our energy efficiency, to phase out polluting energy and to diversify our energy mix. Beyond the climate imperative, the energy transition must be an opportunity to lighten consumers' energy bills, to modernise many professional sectors and to create stable and non-relocable jobs, as well as to strengthen our independence in energy supply and reduce our imports. While everyone certainly agrees on these objectives, the debate will focus more on how to achieve them. Do we give us the means to achieve this ambition? Will this budget achieve these objectives? I have focused my analysis on the programmes that concentrate energy policy appropriations: these appropriations are not declining, with the exception of those allocated to post-mine management, which fall by 8%. We could, of course, welcome the small increases in this budget. However, given the challenge of the energy transition, the international ambition of the President of the Republic and the IPCC report – an intergovernmental panel on climate change – we believe that this budget could have been more ambitious. Why give up, for example, a new call for projects "positive energy territories for green growth"? Such a policy choice, which would cost some 300 million euros, would continue the momentum observed in the territories for the 5000 projects supported after 2014, while promoting innovation. Why not increase the budget of the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – which would allow the Government to keep its promises about a significant increase in the heat fund, for example? It would also have been desirable to strengthen the energy check system further. Of course, the average amount of the cheque will be adjusted, as it will increase from 150 to 200 euros in 2019. However, it could be designed to finance the fuel costs of those – and those alone – who are forced by their circumstances to choose to use their vehicle to go to work and who cannot afford to change it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u18	I also regret that doors, windows and insulating shutters are no longer eligible for ISCED. More generally, beyond the appropriations entered in the energy budget, the evolution of environmental taxation is not satisfactory. It should combine more economic efficiency, social justice and environmental concerns. That is what emerged from the debates we had in the Committee on Economic Affairs last week. For all these reasons, I have issued a wisdom opinion on these credits. Of course, they must be noted, but this increase is insufficient and should be accompanied by a recast of ecological taxation, to accompany the transition and encourage everyone to take their part in it. Sanctioning the practices of some, as is currently being done, would only make sense if they were given the means to change them through massive investments. Beyond the appropriations, I would like to stress the need to better inform Parliament. The existence of long-term commitments linked to the State's calls for energy tenders justifies the introduction of follow-up and information measures. The Committee on Economic Affairs has also adopted an amendment which I have tabled to strengthen Parliament's information and control on the scheme for energy saving certificates – a measure which should be generalized to all schemes. As draftsman of the opinion, I wished to devote the thematic part of my report to the decentralisation of the world of energy, which is still too little discussed today. Decentralised energy production operates on the back of the traditional model, in which a large power plant supplied energy to an entire territory. Decentralised production is linked to the development of renewable energies and concerns all energy sources. It meets strong societal expectations. I would like to draw your attention to one of the challenges of decentralization, which is equality between consumers. France has a very good model, that of tariff equalization: with an equal consumption profile, a user of the electricity network will pay the same rate of use of the network wherever it is located on French territory. This system must be preserved in a decentralised energy world. However, it is now fragile. Some actors, either self-consumers or communities, are tempted by energy autarchy, believing that by consuming the energy they produce, they can become completely independent of the electricity grid, and therefore no longer have to pay its cost of use. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] These temptations are both unrealistic and dangerous. All at stake is to maintain a fair balance between the desire to value the services provided to the network, in particular through self-consumption, and the need to avoid the effects of windfalls, which would be detrimental to the balance of the electricity system and solidarity between consumers. It seems to me important to note that the centralized system remains the guarantor of the decentralized system, and the decentralized system is the guarantor of the centralized system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u19	Mr Yves Blein, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, a great French press hebdo was yesterday in a special notebook: "The social and solidarity economy, a heavy weight in the process of becoming". It recalled now known figures: 2.4 million employees, or 12.8 per cent of private employment, of which 77 per cent in associations, for a value close to 10 per cent of gross domestic product. Yes, the social economy continues to develop. It is often a direct expression of the needs of our fellow citizens, who feel the need to organise themselves a response to a collectively felt need to which the market does not respond or respond poorly. The social economy knows no forbidden subject, no area where it cannot prosper. This is probably what makes it sometimes difficult to describe, and what can give the feeling of a great heterogeneity. However, from renewable energies to health, from money education, from finance to solidarity, from employment to inclusion, from agriculture to distribution, in all areas of economic life, these companies live and develop without seeking profit, by placing a collective project often become of general interest above capitalistic lucrativity. Yes, as the President of Finansol says, the outlook on the social economy is changing because it opens up new innovative channels, because it invents new responses to social demands that coincide with the desire of younger generations to give more meaning to what they do, and because the reign without money sharing does not allow balanced economic and social development. For several years now, the State's ambition has been to accompany and amplify this movement. Thus, the legislator was able to tackle these issues by voting on the law of 31 July 2014, which defined the scope, modalities and essential objectives of the social and solidarity economy, the ESS. This is today a second step that we are about to take with the growth pact for ESS, the contours of which will be clarified in the coming months. This political ambition is reflected in your budget, Minister of State, as the appropriations for Action 14 of Programme 159 increase by about 28.5% in commitment authorities and by 38.5% in payment appropriations. Almost €20 million is allocated to this policy, not to mention the other programmes which also contribute to the financing of the ESS. Public action is renewed under the French Impact Initiative and the Social Innovation Accelerator, which are based on the principle of stimulating private investment through public funding. By 2022, EUR 1 billion is expected for the development of the ESS. I would like to welcome this emulation in favour of social innovation. However, I would like to reiterate the importance of some more traditional arrangements, which play a fundamental role in the territories. The reduction in the appropriations granted to local accompanying arrangements – DLA – seems to me to be detrimental: I will therefore defend an amendment to keep these appropriations at their current level. I have devoted part of my report to the issue of burden relief – this is a very significant effort that will be made towards the social economy in 2019. The salary tax credit – CITS – represented EUR 500 million of expense relief in previous budgets. Its switchover on 1 January 2019, as well as the new wage reliefs at SMIC level planned from 1 October 2019, will total €1.5 billion for ESS companies. This is unprecedented support. I would also like to say a word about the employment situation. Let me remind you first of all that 600,000 to 700000 retirements are expected in the ESS by 2025. Of course, there is still a need to ensure that the sector is attractive, to identify jobs, to improve statistical analysis tools and to increase the links between the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies (INSEE), the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies (ACOSS), the regional chambers of the ESS and the National Council of Regional Chambers of the ESS, so that our statistics can be more effective. Employment in the ESS is confronted with the effects of the reform of assisted contracts. The new career paths of employment skills remain poorly mobilised by associations, probably due to too little public financial support and too disparate conditions for granting them. The improvement of public policies for returning to employment will probably also require stronger support to enterprises for integration through economic activity, as proposed by Jean-Marc Borello. Finally, the reform of assisted contracts cannot save a deeper reflection on the support given to the voluntary world. Although this was not their purpose, the aided contracts represented significant financial support, ranging from EUR 1.1 billion to EUR 1.3 billion. The transformation of the ITSC into burden relief will not affect the same associations; rather, it will benefit the most important employing structures, whose competitiveness it will restore. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Guillaume Garot also applauds]] More broadly, all public support for associative action must be rethought. As such, the establishment of a State Secretariat for Youth and Associative Life sends a positive first signal, which we can hope will rise to the challenges related to the vitality of associative action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u21	Mr Jean François Mbaye, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u22	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, last week, the World Wildlife Fund, in partnership with the London Zoological Society, published a report that gave a grim picture of the inexorable decline in wildlife worldwide: between 1970 and 2014, populations of vertebrate animals fell by 60%. This figure sounds like a sound that resonates for these species that have disappeared in silence, in general indifference. This year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has justly taken an interest in the various actions carried out by our diplomacy in favour of preserving and regaining global biodiversity. The Commission naturally issued an opinion in favour of adopting the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" for 2019, but it wished to make several proposals in order to accompany the Government's resolute action in this area. It is clear from my work that the fight against the collapse of global biodiversity is undoubtedly one of the objectives of our country's foreign policy. France is working with determination to remove this problem from collective indifference, with the ultimate objective of developing a bold and operational international framework capable of enabling the preservation and recovery of biodiversity. France's diplomatic objective is simple but colossal: to succeed on this issue of the climate that we successfully carried out in 2015 when the Paris agreement was signed. The international meetings on this theme will be numerous between 2019 and 2020. It is imperative that our diplomacy be prepared to weigh its weight at these various events. As a sign of our determination to act, France has agreed to host two crucial meetings. First of all, in 2019, Paris will host the seventh IPBES plenary conference, an international platform bringing together a panel of researchers specializing in biodiversity issues. Then, in 2020, Marseille will host the World Conservation Congress – I greet my colleague and friend Said Ahamada. It is on this occasion that civil society can crystallize its expectations for the international community, a few months from the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity. This last event, which will take place in Beijing in 2020, will be the major moment of this diplomatic sequence, since it is within the framework of this COP that a new international framework should be adopted for the protection of nature. In order to achieve this ambitious objective, it seems to me essential that our diplomatic network be further energized. An enhanced presence of agents of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition in the various embassies could, for example, allow for a better dissemination of these issues and boost our diplomatic action on this topic. Biodiversity issues are not only environmental issues, but also have economic, security and more geopolitical implications. Our foreign policy must therefore take full advantage of these various subjects. I would like, for example, to highlight the extremely negative effects of illegal wildlife trafficking on global biodiversity. This would now be the fourth largest traffic in the world, with worldwide profits estimated at around $8 billion to $20 billion per year. These illicit flows contribute to the destruction of nature and at the same time bring huge revenues to criminal or terrorist groups. If there is today a wide range of regional or international mechanisms to combat this traffic effectively, there is a sector in which I think there is room for progress: maritime transport. In 2017, five of the eleven major seizures in France with regard to ivory trafficking concerned the maritime carrier. However, for the International Maritime Organisation, there is no equivalent to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Secretariat of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora – CITES – and the International Air Transport Association. I therefore suggest that France work towards the adoption of such an agreement, in order to strengthen the fight against poaching and illegal trade in wildlife. [[Guillaume Garot and Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer applaud]] Our environmental diplomacy is gradually in order to promote the emergence of global governance for the preservation and recovery of biodiversity. This budget gives it the means to act. It will now be necessary to show boldness and political voluntarism in order to bring the entire international community to the end of this struggle for the protection of nature and the survival of the human species.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u23	Mrs Danielle Brulebois, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u24	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the 181 "Risk prevention" programme is an ambitious programme, with EUR 841 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 835 million in payment appropriations for 2019. It mainly finances risk prevention, both industrial and natural, through five actions. The first four are the prevention of technological risks and pollution, the control of nuclear safety and radiation protection, the prevention of natural and hydraulic risks, and the prevention of risks related to former mining sites. The fifth action, which accounts for 80% of the programme's appropriations, concerns the ecological transition through the funding of the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – the mission of which is mainly to be found in two programmes: the Renewable Heat Programme and the Circular Economy and Waste Programme. From the analysis of the appropriations of programme 181, two findings arise: the sanctuarisation of appropriations, which must be welcomed in a context constrained for public finances, and the success of the actions on the ground, which must be stressed. It is because the current majority has put an end to five years of continuous decline in funding under Program 181 that risk prevention and the ecological transition brought about by ADEME's appropriations have remained, since 2017, priorities for government action. That is why I fully support the appropriations for programme 181. I was able to see through visits and hearings, including the National Institute for the Industrial Environment and Risks – INERIS – and the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health – ANSES – the application of the 181 programme in the field. As part of a trip to Marseille, I was able to observe the actions of the departments of the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – in the prevention of risks and the clearance of "orphaned" industrial sites located in the Parc national des Calanques. I was able to appreciate the essential role of the DREAL and their departmental units, whether in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region – PACA – or in the Jura. In liaison with the prefectures, they maintain a regular level of control, coupled with a role of accompaniment and advice. Thus, in PACA, the DREAL ended the scandal of the rejection of "red sludge" in the National Park of Calanques.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u25	Thanks to who?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u26	It has also been able to drive the Alteo plant towards solutions to clean up discharges at sea and to deal with the issue of "red dust" that escapes from the storage site. During a trip to the Jura, I was also able to observe the prevention of occupational health in the company Grace Construction products and the prevention of the risks associated with the collection and treatment of hazardous industrial waste by the company CHIMIREC. I have noted the many issues raised by new risks that are still poorly defined by science and legislation, such as the effects of nanoparticles or endocrine disruptors. However, Program 181 is clear, given the stated objectives, as an effective program given the small number of industrial accidents identified. The absence of spectacular accidents or even murderers, however, must not lead to lower guarding. A real risk culture must be developed in France. The lessons learned from disasters have led to the development of the technological risk reduction plans – PPRT – which, 18 years after the AZF accident, are finally being finalized. Flood risk prevention plans – PPRI – show their limits, in view of the dramatic floods in Aude. Risk prevention education from an early age is an education in responsibility, which must allow the risk to be accepted. She must be supported from school. Our modern world is constantly exposing us to new hazards. The manifestations of climate change and warming are increasing. In addition, the so-called "emerging risks", which require new studies and cross-cutting work in areas that are not well known, such as cocktail effects, the fight against the proliferation of invasive species, such as the box borer, and the effects of nanoparticles or 5G in a world that will become increasingly connected. I would also like to stress the need to preserve the financing of human resources for risk prevention policy on the ground, research on emerging risks and support for the energy transition. ADEME is not underfunded: for 2019, it receives a public service charge of €591 million in initial finance law. As for the heat fund, Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, reminded the Senate on 2 October of the Government's commitment to increase the amount of 300 million euros, a proposal which I agree with, as this fund is a key player in the energy transition. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To conclude, I will quote the philosopher engineer Jean-Pierre Dupuy, who writes in his book For an enlightened catastrophism: "We now know that we are on board, with a time bomb on board. It is only up to us that its explosion, registered as an unlikely fatality, does not occur. We are condemned to constant vigilance. This is the will expressed in program 181.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u27	Jennifer De Temmerman, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u28	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) recently recalled both the urgency of action and the magnitude of the environmental issues and challenges before us. The citizens have seized this fight in their March for the climate, engaging us collectively. As rapporteur for the ecological transition, I therefore welcome the fact that the appropriations managed by the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition are on the rise overall, a strong sign of our commitment to these future challenges. With regard to Action 4 of Programme 174, which accompanies the end of mining activity, the appropriations are experiencing a structural decrease due to the demography of the beneficiaries of the benefits financed. Most of these services are provided by the National Agency for the Guarantee of the Rights of Minors, whose exemplary action I welcome, while also welcoming the publication of the book which it has just devoted to the history of mines. On the other hand, the appropriations for the energy transition trust account and the three other actions under programme 174, dedicated to the implementation of energy policies and the fight against global warming, are up by several million euros. Our Government thus shows its will to succeed in the ecological and solidarity transition of France. At the hearings that I conducted, as when my report was presented in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, the question of the readability of budget documents was raised on several occasions. I was also asked about the lack of compensation for the increase in fuel taxation. These two questions seem to me to be connected. Indeed, directly or indirectly, the revenues of green taxation are massively mobilized in the service of the transition. The sums committed, for example, for the thermal renovation of buildings, for the fight against energy insecurity or for the support of renewable energy producers are in billions: we are far from punitive taxation! Nevertheless, greater clarity in the budget model would make the deep logics of the ongoing ecological transition and the counterpart of the efforts made more visible. France has committed itself in 2015 to the 2030 Agenda and a roadmap to achieve the 17 sustainable development goals is currently being prepared, under the aegis of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Sustainable Development. Since there is no doubt that we must maintain the course France has set itself, we could consider structuring the budget around these objectives, as Finland has already done. The drafting of a budget report for an opinion is also an opportunity to give particular attention to a problem related to it. This year, I chose to study the contribution of research, innovation and digital technology to the energy transition. This has allowed me to discover many very promising projects, which mobilize significant funding from both the state and private actors. However, the hearings I conducted enabled me to identify two possible areas for improvement. The first is to strengthen support for the exit of the laboratory. Indeed, despite the high level of funding, the mechanisms for consolidating innovative channels could be improved with a view to better valuing the excellence of French research. The second is to strengthen governance. Digital issues are taken into account in energy policy and research, but stronger coordination of efforts would make it possible to go further, particularly with regard to the progress of artificial intelligence. Finally, you will allow me to draw your attention to a problem inherent to the Hauts-de-Frances, which are dear to me. Indeed, I was alerted to the need for the rapid replacement of many equipment in my area, due to the depletion of the North Sea gas deposit. These changes, which concern equipment over 15 years of age, are likely to put a particularly fragile population at risk. I will therefore propose an amendment to the non-attached articles, even though the department, which I have questioned, is actively working to find a more suitable solution to this urgent problem and to avoid a supply disruption for hundreds of households. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I express a favourable opinion on these appropriations and thank Benjamin Quashie-Roubaud, administrator of the National Assembly, and Hélène Clerc, my assistant, for their assistance in the drafting of this report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u29	Mrs Mathilde Panot, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u30	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Emmanuel Macron said a few weeks ago that he was one of those who loved the state. It's a funny way to love that to destroy the object of his passion! And yet, this presidential majority – like the previous ones, in fact – continues to deprive the public power of its means of action. However, in the era of climate change and species extinction, the state must preserve with extreme attention its tools of forecasting, expertise and control. It is not moralizing and empty incantations in front of bankers – this famous "green finance" summit – that will allow us to change our production and consumption patterns, but a general direction set by the public authorities, on a democratic basis, towards citizens, associations and businesses. Reconnecting with time is what is required of us by the magnitude of ecological issues. On the occasion of this budget report, I would like to make an alarm call. The State is depriving itself of the means to achieve the ecological transition. The constantly spreading proclamation, here or there, of an interest that the majority would have in the ecological question is merely a snail. Words, always words! No means, no means, no means! That is what the budgetary policy for the Ministry of Ecology is all about.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u31	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u32	I imagine that no one is surprised by this logic, since it does not only concern this policy: the systematic destruction of public power serves as a political project for macroism. However, I will mention the specificities of this ideological blindness with regard to the ministry of ecological transition: from 2013 to 2019, 13,250 jobs were abolished in this ministry and among its operators; For 2019, there will still be 1329 fewer positions, with, in the first place, a loss of qualifications. Everyone knows the high level of qualification required for a successful ecological transition. Indeed, the State services, in support of local authorities or for the State itself, must have the capacity to assess any project that could have an environmental impact – but how can it be done with fewer and fewer field agents? What can water agency officers monitor compliance with emission standards by a plant, monitor the condition of watercourses and investigate the source of pollution, or verify that bridge and road construction records comply with the water law, or that sewage treatment plants discharge clean water, while since 2010, a quarter of their workforce has been removed? For 2017 alone, 146 very high-level engineers left the ministry and 23 of them went directly to the private sector. If departures continue at this rate, the ministry will have to deal with a real hemorrhage. When the time comes to evaluate projects, what will happen? It is simple and shocking at the same time: the state will have to rely on private firms of expertise, for much higher costs and to produce more ambiguous results. This is the second problem of this general flight: what guarantee of independence will remain for these results, suspected of relying on private interests? This phenomenon will therefore lead to total aberration: the state will pay much more for less rigorous results. This is the consequence of policies that, from Sarkozy to Macron, through Holland, have not changed. This constancy in error lies both in the obstinacy and in the will shared by these rulers, who are obsessed by various private interests, to undermine public power. Over the past ten years, the non-replacement of one in two public servants and the policy of freezing the index have been the rule in the public service. Making the state more efficient by breaking down its services is the general philosophy that applies to the budget of the Ministry of Environmental Transition. That is not all: the second striking point is the weakening of the department's operators. The Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, Environment, Mobility and Planning – CEREMA – for example, lost 300 full-time equivalents from 2015 to 2018. It is one of the cores of public environmental expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u33	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u34	As for Météo France, as climate change is going to hit us – and we are already hitting us – 650 posts have been abolished there in ten years. It's an irresponsible policy. Recent events in Aude have, however, shown that it is important to consolidate the resources of Météo France. The spokesman for the Ministry of the Interior spoke about these floods of a "frailty" of Météo France, but this fragility is produced by disastrous public policies. Are we now finding our call, many times renewed, for a moratorium on the artificialization of soil less absurd? In terms of public policies, the lack of coherence between speeches and actions will be costly. An ecological policy that affords itself the means of its ambitions is a necessary horizon and protection for the nation. We call for the State to be provided with sufficient resources and to invest heavily in renewable energies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our country and to get out of the madness of nuclear power. 750000 dwellings to be isolated per year, against energy insecurity and waste: this is the creative horizon we put on the table. These are fundamental elements to which this budget generally does not provide any response. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group]] The politics of the small week is over. Your government belongs to another era. It has the sole interest and only the interests of a few. In 2018, the minister of the ecological transition had received the silver medal for the number of posts abolished and the gold medal for the number of posts abolished among his operators. You who have self-proclaimed champions of the Earth, you are, in the end, only small accountants, fosseurs of the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u35	Mr Yannick Haury, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u36	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the 113 programme "Landscapes, water and biodiversity" brings together appropriations for landscape, water and biodiversity policies. The 159 "Expertise, Geographic Information and Meteorology" programme includes the appropriations of CEREMA, IGN – Institut national de l'information géographique et forestière – and Météo France, as well as the appropriations of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Sustainable Development and those allocated to the financing of measures in favour of the social and solidarity economy. The funds allocated to these programmes are used to finance public policies that are essential for sustainable development. Landscape, water and biodiversity policies are indeed at the forefront of climate change and the collapse of biodiversity. These policies are operationally oriented and have a major impact on many territorial actors and on our citizens. In addition to the examination of credits and related articles, I wanted to make a more precise point on the biodiversity damage caused by plastic pollution, on the artificialisation of soils and on the development of eco-districts. The budgetary increases provided for in this draft finance law for 2019 should be underlined: for example, on the programme 113, an additional €10 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations will be allocated to the implementation of the Biodiversity Plan and an additional €9.2 million will be provided for in commitment authorisations for the organisation of the next World Congress of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, to be held in Marseille in 2020. Under programme 159, 5 million euros of new resources are foreseen to finance the acquisition of a new supercomputer by Météo France in 2019 and 5 million euros are earmarked for the deployment of measures for the social and solidarity economy. But the budgetary constraint remains very strong, under the Public Finance Programming Act 2018-2022. In this regard, I stress, as in 2017, the concerns that are shared by many operators, each in their field of expertise, that they cannot cope with all the tasks entrusted to them. At this stage of our work, Article 75, lowering the cynegetic charges which constitute a major resource of the ONCFS – National Office for Hunting and Wildlife – does not provide compensation for this operator, while the decrease is estimated at 21 million euros. The AFB – Agence française pour la biodiversité – will necessarily have to benefit from an increase in its resources in the short term given the wide variety of new missions entrusted to it, which were not provided by any of the integrated operators within it when it was created in 2017. In addition, the proposed merger between AFB and ONCFS will receive our full attention. Météo France must embark on a decisive investment for its future with the replacement of its supercomputer. However, despite the additional €5 million measure in 2019, the operator needs an additional €5 million to cover the real cost of this investment. That is why I have tabled an amendment to the EUR 159 million programme appropriations. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will look at article 76 of the draft finance bill, which will strengthen the fight against diffuse pollution by better defining the products concerned by the charge for diffuse pollution and by making significant progress in taxation according to the level of dangerousness of the products. The financial impact of the measure is estimated at EUR 50 million for 2019. I will present an amendment, adopted by the Committee on Sustainable Development, to extend the scope of this levy to nitrogen mineral fertilizers, which we know have a major and very costly environmental impact on society as a whole, both on water quality and on air quality. The rate that I proposed to apply, with a financial impact of €42 million in 2019, would then be doubled in two years. This measure must be accompanied by better remuneration for environmental services provided by farmers, through water agencies in particular. That is one of the reasons why I tabled an amendment to raise the resource limit for water agencies, which was not passed in the first part of the finance bill. These, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, were the elements that I wanted to present to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u37	We now come to the group spokespersons. Sophie Auconia, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u38	Mr President, the Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that the budget for the ecological and solidarity transition is increasing by EUR 1 billion to EUR 34 billion, an increase of just over 3% in the budget of the Ministry and its operators. There is one "but": the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" must take into account the major issues that we can no longer ignore the urgency: energy and climate, water and biodiversity, risks and health, mobility and transport. The alarming report of the WWF – the World Wildlife Fund – published last week is intended to help us understand the tragedy we are experiencing and whose actors we are: the Earth has lost 60% of its wild animal populations since 1970. In question, intensive agriculture, soil degradation, overfishing, poaching, climate disruption, plastic pollution – in a word, it is an anthropogenic phenomenon: it is man. In this context, the actions of the Biodiversity Plan are reflected in the budget to the tune of EUR 10 million, which seems to be an absolute necessity in view of the publication of these new data. Of course, we support this measure. To date, we welcome some of the principles adopted in the first part of the 2019 Finance Bill. A number of notable measures have been discussed, but we must go further in this second part. Important deadlines are approaching: multi-annual energy programming, known as PPE, the implementation of the Biodiversity Plan and the 11th Water Agency Programme, the implementation of the road map for the circular economy, COP24 in December, and the World Conservation Congress in Marseille in 2020. So, Minister of State, let us live up to these challenges, but let us be fair and consistent. The increase in the Mission's budget is mainly justified by the conversion bonus or the success of the energy check. But this increase is to be compared with certain measures in the first part of the PLF. For example, not least, between the carbon trajectory and this removal of the reduced rate for certain non-road uses of diesel, the revenue from this new tax should bring back €3.7 billion to the general state budget, according to Joël Giraud's report. However, the special allocation account that finances actions related to the energy transition is only increased by €80 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u39	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u40	All this suggests that the increase in ecological taxation is therefore not proportional to the increase in the means used in the "Ecology" mission in favour of the energy transition: this is what we hear in our territories today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u41	That's the whole point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u42	There is no controversy there, Minister of State, nor any will to be unpleasant to you: it is a reality. Today, the French are quite ready to accompany you in a virtuous approach to the energy transition, but they do not want to be deceived, they do not want to be squandered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u43	We don't touch the grisbi!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u44	What about the drop in the housing tax? We're not snuggling them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u45	We propose to allocate massively the revenue from the increase in ecological taxation to all expenditure in favour of the energy transition and alternatives to the thermal motor. For me, this is a question of honesty vis-à-vis our fellow citizens and local authorities, who are increasingly constrained by these taxes. Let us hear the cries and rumblings of our territories! We are bringing about a transition for our citizens that confirms territorial divides and social injustices by increasing green taxation to the detriment of rural areas and the most disadvantaged sectors. That's the point! No, some can't do without their car immediately and have no alternatives to date.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u46	Yes, that's the reality of the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u47	I also wanted to talk to you about water agencies, but it has been done several times and I don't have much time. Another subject of importance which has been debated in committee, with the adoption of an amendment which I hope will be adopted again today: this is the warm fund, which you have announced to us, Minister of State, an increase of 40 %, to 400 million euros. It remains to be seen whether this increase will be absorbed by the current budget of ADEME – the Environment and Energy Management Agency – or whether additional funding will be provided. [[Marie-Noëlle Battistel applauds]] I am pleased that we are aware of the importance of changing our production patterns, consumption patterns and lifestyles. The creation of the group « Let's accelerate the ecological and solidarity transition! At the initiative of Matthieu Orphelin, whom I greet, it is a very beautiful symbol: it is a trans-party issue for which we must unite our forces, mobilize our skills. Government, Parliament, citizens: Let us act together and together. The IUD, Action and Independent Group will be attentive to the discussions. For the time being, we have decided to abstain pending the debates that will take place earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u48	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u49	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u50	Mr President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, the residential and tertiary building sector accounted for 43% of France's final energy consumption in 2016 and 19.5% of the country's greenhouse gas emissions. It is one of the most important deposits of energy savings. Adherence to the objectives of the Green Growth Energy Transition Act would require an annual investment of €4 billion in the renovation of energy coffers. The Government's choice is limited to just EUR 1 billion, four times less, for all aid schemes combined. However, it is now a consensus that the renovation of housing and tertiary buildings should be a national priority in terms of energy and climate. It is also a social priority, with 5.5 million households, or about 12 million of our fellow citizens, in situations of energy insecurity. In addition, the potential for local and non-local jobs, which also makes it an economic priority, can be estimated at around 300,000 jobs. But it is also a health priority, at a time when one in five households claim to be suffering from the cold in their homes. I would also like to point out that one euro invested in thermal renovation is a saving of 40 cents on the care of our citizens. And yet, in the PLF, the words "combat against energy sieves" are not followed by actions. There are a number of problems, and the amendments that we will be presenting to you earlier will be intended to answer them. First, the ISCED – the energy transition tax credit – has seen its amount divided by two and remains problematic on the form, the tax credit effectively excluding those who do not have the initial funds to carry out work. It must be transformed into a premium, as the Government had committed itself to it, and it must be introduced in line with household incomes. Second problem: 3.7 million households are eligible for the energy check. The Government wants to increase its amount from 150 euros to 200 euros, but this remains far too insufficient. According to the CLER-Network for the energy transition, it should be increased from 200 to 600 euros per year, or three times more, and the possibility of a free audit should be introduced. In addition, the ceilings for access to these energy cheques are extremely low: for example, a two-person household must have incomes below €11550 per year – less than €962 per month, which is well below the poverty line – to qualify for them. For its part, the National Habitat Agency is subject to a cap on its subsidies, in accordance with Article 29 of this LFP. The proceeds from the auction of CO allowances paid to it are reduced by 130 million euros. Set at EUR 550 million, this amount will be capped at EUR 420 million. It would allegedly be offset by higher taxes on vacant housing, but the Government was abandoning the potential for increases by increasing the carbon trajectory. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, at the same time, you choose to remove the LPA – personalized housing assistance – accession, and therefore the housing allowance works, with the sole aim of making savings – once again, on the back of the most precarious. Yet, in 2019, the ICTPE is expected to bring in a total of 37.7 billion euros. Only 19% of this amount will be directly devoted to the energy transition, compared to 21% in 2018: go understand the logic of this trajectory! 17 billion will go back to the general state budget, to potentially finance everything and anything. The ecological transition, and in particular the energy transition, requires substantial public investment. The annual investment needs to achieve the climate targets range from €45 billion to €75 billion per year from 2016 to 2030. At present, we spend only EUR 31 billion, divided equally between households, companies and public actors. The Government is ultimately investing only €10 billion in this energy transition. The account isn't there! The need for public funding is in the order of 10 to 20 billion euros a year to finance the only energy transition: you consciously and stubbornly refuse to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u51	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u52	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday, we were moved to receive the cross-cutting policy document literally five minutes before the beginning of the session devoted to the appropriations of the Overseas Mission, while, like our colleague, As Aubert pointed out, it is this document, commonly known as TPD, that allows us to verify the transcription of government commitments, program by program, territory by territory: a document of more than 500 pages that we had to discover in less than five minutes! A week later, we came together to discuss the appropriations of the mission "Ecology", one of the most important of this fiscal year, and rebellious: the yellow was only put online at the beginning of the afternoon! How can we safely carry out our task of monitoring the Government's action under these conditions? Admit that this attitude is not likely to re-establish the bond of trust between national representation and the Government. The executive would have something to hide that he would not do otherwise. It's quite simple, it's my sixth finance bill on these benches, and it's the first time we've been working under these conditions. I know your commitment, Mr.Minister, and I do not question you personally, but I would appreciate it if you could pass the word on to your colleague from Bercy: it is respect for the National Assembly and our missions that are being discussed here, as well as the duty of transparency in the exercise of public action. With regard to the Mission's appropriations, we can only welcome the increase in the budget allocated to the ecological and solidarity transition, especially since all of your department's major policies will benefit from this increase. This remark, however, must be made clear: the account is not there. The plans you are proposing to improve the energy transition are in fact using only very partially the surplus expected from the strengthening of taxation on petroleum products, which will have the foreseeable consequence of throwing thousands of disillusioned French people into the streets. Yet there was a real pedagogy to do with French people who are resolutely ready for this transition more than necessary. It must be said that with 55 billion euros for the quinquennium, there is something to do! It is a pity that barely a quarter of the revenue from the TICEP – 37.7 billion expected for 2019 – is used to finance the ecological conversion: 7.2 billion euros must abound the special allocation account "Energy Transition", intended in particular to help public electricity operators to develop renewable energy, and 1.2 billion euros will go to the AFITF. We are always looking for consistency between the increase in ecological taxation and the authorization granted to Total to drill off the coast of French Guiana, a territory already seriously threatened by the gigantism of the gold mining project of the consortium "Montagne d'Or". It is 1500 hectares of ecologically valuable primary forests and 2000 plant and animal species that are at risk. 57,000 tonnes of explosives, 46000 tonnes of cyanide and 195 million litres of fuel oil will be used to operate this site. I would like to point out that the use of cyanide carries major risks, highlighted by the European Commission in 2006 and by the European Parliament in 2016 in support of the demand for vigilance and even a ban on the use of cyanide at open pit mining sites addressed to Member States. Some also denounced an economic glamour, not to mention the lack of consideration for the opinion of the Amerindian authorities of Guyana. You will agree, Mr. Minister, that it is not very relishing, when you claim to take steps to ensure the ecological transition, to give the feeling of letting things go to waste on a French territory because the choices of your predecessors have been irrelevant. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] Many questions remain. That is why the GDR group is asking to see to believe. As it stands, it is obliged to vote against the draft budget that you are submitting to us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u53	Mr François-Michel Lambert, for the Libertés et territoires Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u54	Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, Mr. Minister of State, today we are considering the proposed budget for the "Ecology" mission. We have already raised a number of issues in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, including the resources allocated to the post-mine budget, whose sharp reduction – minus 8% – may call into question the intervention of these fragile populations. Let me draw the alarm signal and ask you to pay much more attention to those 100,000 people who must be as priority as others. We have also discussed at length the role of the State in risk prevention. After decades of monitoring compliance by industrialists and administrative decisions to force them to ensure the protection of people and the environment, it is a matter of moving towards a partnership approach between the State and industrialists in order to be economically sustainable, viable, to have more resources and new skills. However, the weakening of the State's resources in the various tools available – public institutions, regional services – will not allow us to accompany this change in the action of the State and its services as well as that of our industry, which must, while continuing to exist and produce, transform itself in depth, in an approach of cooperation. The economic and environmental risk is known: the closure of a French industrial site results in a relocation of production abroad, most probably under totally degraded social and environmental conditions. But we have only one planet: whether pollution is here or elsewhere, it aggravates the situation and the future of humanity. France must therefore invent, with the strength of its expertise, the requirement of our model, a new cooperation between the public and the private sector in the industrial field. [[Approvals on SOC and GDR benches]] I would also like to talk about a subject that is burning up France: that of ecological taxation. How have we succeeded in awakening popular distrust for an indispensable ecological transition, fundamental for our country, our children, the future of humanity? It is that symbols sometimes have a force that goes beyond reason. On the one hand, we cannot give the impression that those who already have a lot will have even more – 4.5 billion euros to abolish the ISF, defiscalisation of palm oil, reduction of the charges on air transport – and, on the other hand, ignore the impact of the increase in the cost of energy on millions of French people who do not benefit like us, colleagues, from dedicated means for their mobility. Millions of French pay their mobility with their own means. There is a real class revolution to be accomplished in this matter. Workers and supervisors bear the cost of their daily travel; This is not the case with executives or managers. Equality must be restored in the face of mobility, first and foremost for work and studies. Yes, the increase in environmental taxation is necessary, but on the condition of a fair distribution. In addition to the disappearance of the ISF, I note that of the aid for electric bicycles. The aid for the thermal renovation of the windows has also disappeared, while it is often the only thermal renovation available to some owners. I won't talk about certain types of heating. We hope that the €3 billion supplement expected from environmental taxation in 2019, to which we can add almost €1 billion expected from the end of the challenge of non-road fuels, will be devoted to measures to accompany middle classes, modest households, artisans and SMEs towards the ecological transition. Thus, the amount of the energy check must be multiplied by two. New vehicle acquisition support systems must allow for faster conversion. What about the two-litre car? There is the issue of infrastructure. There is a take-over of land use planning. We would have liked the macronian "at the same time" to apply to the ecological and energy transition, that a proactive fiscal trajectory responds to the ecological emergency. Above all, we would have liked a sustained and validated timetable for accompanying measures, or even for early transformation. We know that France, whose huge trade deficit is due to the energy bill for two thirds, must change; But this change has to be made from the territories. In conclusion, I hope that multi-annual energy programming, PPE, will not escape the democratic debate, especially since the public debate has not allowed us to go as far as we wanted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u56	Mrs Laurianne Rossi, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u57	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, during the examination of the first part of the finance bill for 2019, I indicated, as draftsman of the opinion on behalf of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, that this second five-year budget, like the first, was the end of the budget for the environment. The review of the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", an increase of 200 million euros compared to 2018, and its special accounts, notably the account "Energy Transition", an increase of 1.3%, testify to this unprecedented political voluntarism. Budget support for the financing of renewable energy support schemes, the energy transition trust account is one of the key levers for the success of France's ambitious energy and climate change policy, which aims to accelerate the implementation of the Paris Agreement, with a focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This objective includes the implementation of the climate plan presented on 6 July 2017, the thermal renovation, with the extension of the ISCED, the fight against energy insecurity, with the increase of the energy check, the support for renewable energies and the implementation of the hydrogen plan. The increase in the appropriations for this account, which took place during the vote on the first part of the finance bill, is to be welcomed. The change from a budget of 7.1 billion to 7.246 billion for the 2019 fiscal year will increase support for renewable energies and make the ecological and solidarity transition a reality. These additional appropriations will thus support actions contributing to the fight against climate change and the reduction of the energy bill through the transformation of our energy model. The actions financed will also contribute to the development of new technologies, innovation and the conquest of new markets in the field of renewable energy and energy performance, sectors in which France has all the assets to become a leading economic player. This support for green energies is also a strong signal in favour of a policy of multimodal mobility, clean, innovative, solidarity, which will have its full place in the future mobility policy. Revenues from the "Financing of aid to communities for rural electrification" trust account are also increasing by EUR 17 million, ensuring a continuity of means to finance and carry out work to improve the quality of electricity distribution in rural areas, in isolated sites and in overseas areas, which are essential to any ambitious and coherent spatial planning policy. The additional funding for this programme will finance the necessary part of the reconstruction of the electricity grids of the islands of Saint Martin and Saint Barthélemy following the terrible damage caused by Hurricane Irma, which we all have in memory. This unprecedented voluntarism and these substantial budgetary efforts, which we must unanimously welcome, leave, however, some outstanding questions. First of all, the support for electrical energy, which receives most of the special allocation account "Energy Transition" when the share of gas in final consumption approaches one third. These aids must be more legible and support more balanced. I agree with my colleague draftsman, Mrs De Temmerman, with regard to support for heat producers and low-carbon sectors other than electricity. It is indeed crucial to strengthen support for the production of heat and cold not only through the trust account but also through the investment aid of the ADEME heat fund. In this regard, the announcement of an increase of EUR 100 million in the heat fund should be welcomed, even though many of us on these banks are hoping for a doubling of this fund. We will ensure that these commitments are implemented in the ADEME budget within the framework of this PLF. Finally, the allocation of additional resources to the various renewable energies requires more readability. As I mentioned in the debate on the first part of the finance bill, we have no doubt that multi-year energy programming will quickly provide us with accurate answers to our country's energy policy choices. In conclusion, I would like once again to welcome this budget for action and courage in favour of a healthier, more sustainable environment, which strengthens the fight against global warming, in full fidelity to France's international commitments and in respect of our fellow citizens and future generations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] At a time when some, on these benches, are trying to curb the ecological and solidarity transition that they have not been able to carry out when they were in charge, the Government can count on the support of the group La République en marche to defend this project and to conduct this environmental fight together, faithful to the principles of responsibility, efficiency and solidarity that are ours and in each territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u58	Mr Martial Saddier, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u59	Mr Minister of State, Minister responsible for Transport, ladies and gentlemen, and for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, we take note of the further increase in appropriations for the environment, especially we, the Commissioners for Sustainable Development, when they had fallen several times during the previous legislatures. After an increase of around 900 million euros in 2018, they increase by almost 1 billion euros, bringing the budget of the Ministry of Ecology and its operators to 34.2 billion euros. We also note that these increases will benefit all environmental policies, and we welcome the increase in funding for renewable energy support and development, the conversion premium, the energy check – from EUR 150 to EUR 200 per year – and the increase in the charge for diffuse pollution. Yet, despite this increase in appropriations, which can only satisfy us, we are, together with my colleagues in the Republican Group, particularly concerned about the arbitrations carried out by your government, Minister of State, Minister. We are indeed facing an unprecedented tax shock, which affects all our citizens, but in particular those who live in rural or mountain areas and those from disadvantaged groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u60	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u61	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u62	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] 14 billion euros, we are on a path of 14 billion euros! That is the amount that will be levied on our fellow citizens during the quinquennium, only with the increase in fuel taxes! In total, the latter will grow by more than €2 billion between 2018 and 2019. How do you, Madam Minister, Minister of State, want the French to accept this green tax when they know very well that these levies will unfortunately only be allocated to the amount of about EUR 1 billion for the improvement of the environment, transport or their quality of life, the rest falling within the general budget of the State? That's the bottom of the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u63	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u64	Another point that challenges us is: what are the ways in which the state can finance the AFITF's budget? Like the "Transport Infrastructure and Services" programme, whose funding is increasing very widely, AFITF's budget is increasing by EUR 300 million. In total, Madam Minister, the Government is expected to spend 13.4 billion euros on infrastructure between 2018 and 2022. If this announcement goes in the right direction – it is still 40% additional funding compared to the last five years, of which we have done so – we are a long way off, and you will agree, ladies and gentlemen, with the EUR 14.6 billion recommended in the Duron report. I have been pleading for ten years in this house that it should be different: the PPP zones – a plan to protect the atmosphere – are still not clearly displayed as a priority for investment. I take the example of the plans to protect the atmosphere of the valley of Arve, in Haute-Savoie – which you know well, Madam Minister, Minister of State: SNCF Réseau announces without laughter the start of the work in 2027! As our country is increasingly confronted with climate phenomena of exceptional magnitude due to global warming, we must now think about the establishment of a real mechanism to finance these climate events, since the Barnier fund is no longer sufficient to deal with the intensity of these phenomena. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are going through redeployment. I took on my responsibilities, Minister of State, by supporting and voting on the board of directors of the water agency the allocation by the State of $20 million to the department of Aude. This money is that of the Rhône Méditerranée Corse water agency. We must therefore reinvent a model to finance the consequences of the major climate disasters that we already know. We are also concerned that the doubling of the share of renewable energy consumption in the French energy mix by 2030 will lead to an explosion in energy costs. We will have a debate on this, as we have today on the increase in fuel prices. Mr Minister of State, could you also tell us what is the timetable for discussing multi-annual energy programming, the PPE? Here too, we would like to have a slightly more precise timetable. Finally, I would like to come back to a subject that is of particular interest to me and for which I have fought hard throughout this year: the financing of water agencies. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 finance law had hit water agencies hard, until it called them into question. No less than 720 million euros have been allocated from their budget to finance the Agence française de la biodiversité, AFB, and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage, ONCFS. This has moved away from the polluter-pays principle, "water pays for water". This unprecedented puncture forced water agencies to make choices. I've multiplied the interventions; After two meetings with the Prime Minister on 12 July, then a trip, we obtained a favourable arbitration: maintenance of the agencies' budget – I salute my colleague Mrs Auconia, with whom we led this fight –, overall reduction of budgets to 12% instead of initially 26%, 2 billion euros of loans from the Caisse des dépôts indexed to the rate of Book A. I will, of course, remain vigilant, along with my colleagues, the Republicans, on the maintenance of these budgets. One question remains: who will finance the reduction in the cost of the hunting permit? That is still not clear in this budget. We absolutely do not want to be " typed again" – if you will allow me the expression – in the eleventh programme of water agencies! [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of State, Minister, we will not vote for this budget: only 25 per cent of the 4 billion tax shock is allocated to ecological taxation, the rest falling into the bottomless pit of the state deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u65	Mr Bruno Millienne, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u66	Mr President, the Minister of State, the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the advanced degradation of the environment, of global resources, in the face of the alarming fact that the WWF report on the disappearance of 60 % of wild animals in less than fifty years, the ecological imperative is becoming more and more forceful. When the Paris Agreement was signed, France decided to assume its role as leader of the energy transition in the concert of nations. It has taken on an exemplary duty to lead its partners to the definition of an international framework dedicated to the fight against global warming: I will mention in particular the end of the exploitation and production of hydrocarbons in our territory, the prohibition of plastic products for single use, the cessation of the net artificialisation of the soil, or the mobilization of EUR 150 million to pay farmers so that they can put in place measures to protect biodiversity. It was essential that France finally adopt taxation in accordance with its claims. That is the case with the budget that you are presenting to us, Minister of State, and I welcome the EUR 1 billion increase. For the first time, the budget of the Ministry of Ecological Transition is in line with the objectives we have set ourselves. So, of course, we could go even further – that is my own conviction – but I welcome these undeniable advances. For example, I can only welcome the allocation of EUR 20 million for actions in the field of water and biodiversity. Because of the exceptional richness of its biodiversity – thanks to the ultramarine territories – France has a special responsibility on these issues. Our country has also officially embarked on this path during the adoption of the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes of which you were rapporteur, dear Barbara Pompili, during the creation of the Agence française pour la biodiversité, and finally, during the adoption of the Biodiversity Plan of 4 July 2018. The protection of biodiversity is of particular importance to me, and that is why I will ask for a report on the elimination of public aid harmful to biodiversity, for which a report was submitted to the Government in 2012 – a commitment had been made to abolish it by 2020. Some of them are in fact minimal in terms of funding, but their reform may be crucial for the conservation of biodiversity when they act on fragile spaces. A review of public aid harmful to biodiversity would also enable us to fulfil our European and international commitments in this area. I have therefore tabled an amendment in the first part of the PLF, which I welcome the adoption of, which removes the 10 year exemption from ICTPE for deliveries of heavy fuel oil. However, this is only one tax aid: all of them should be identified and the most harmful to the environment should be eliminated. With this goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, I would like to draw your attention, Minister of State, to the importance of strengthening the incentive to incorporate biofuels. One possibility would be an increase in the percentage of petrol, given the decarbonisation of transport and the excess bioethanol production capacity in France. On energy policy, although we welcome the €4 million to €5 million increase in one year, our attention will focus first and foremost on the presentation of the multi-annual energy programming, the PPE, whose guidelines we look forward to. Energy policy is, of course, a policy in favour of the energy transition. It is therefore also a policy that needs to be pedagogic and offer our fellow citizens a real forward-looking vision of our future energy consumption by 2030, 2040, 2050. As such, the future EPP will have to present the new French energy strategy. We need to be particularly vigilant about the development of new energies – I am thinking in particular of hydrogen, which can be one of the solutions for electrification of transport, for example. We must offer everyone a reasonable and understandable model of what our future energy mix will be tomorrow in order to win the support of our citizens. Thus, Mr Minister of State, this is a positive budget, but for which we know that we will have to strengthen further our actions in favour of the introduction of a truly green and incentive-oriented tax, which is more incentive than coercive, so that it is accepted and therefore just for all our fellow citizens, particularly the peri-urban and rural populations. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, the MODEM and related group will vote for the Energy credits of the Ecology mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u67	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Garot, for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u68	Minister of State, Minister, special rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, are we at the meeting of the objectives of COP21? The answer is no. In 2017, our country emitted more greenhouse gases than in 2016 and 2015. Will the budget presented today make it possible to face and reverse the trend? The answer is still no, alas. No one here will say that it is easy to return to years of development that, in our country as elsewhere, has wasted our natural resources and compromised our future. We know this from experience: the ecological transition, for transport, for energy, for agriculture, is demanding and arduous. Minister of State, we voted together on the same energy transition laws in 2015 and on biodiversity in 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u69	I'm on it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u70	The minister also knows them very closely. So we know very well, very well. Today, we are expected on the action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u71	And coherence!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u72	That's where the bastard hurts. Taking action cannot only be taxed, especially when taxation affects those who do not have the choice of their means of transport. The President of the Republic told us this morning in a tweet that he made "fortunate choices" by increasing taxes on diesel and gasoline. But where is the courage, when you hit those who have no choice but to take their car, because they don't have public transport, no TER, because they don't have the means to equip themselves with an electric vehicle, no charging stations to go to work?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u73	They don't have an electrical outlet at home?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u74	Where is the courage when we strike all those, after having been so generous with those who live in opulence and who will never have any worries to finish the month?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u75	It's populism...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u76	And where is coherence, Minister of State, when the measures proposed in the budget are not, alas, enough to speed up the pace of the environmental transition? Let's be concrete. What do we propose against thermal colanders, these houses and buildings that are large providers of greenhouse gases, since they account for 30% of total emissions? At present, we are renovating 150,000 homes per year. However, it would be necessary to double the pace to hope to close this gas faucet within ten years. This means encouraging, driving, encouraging by re-establishing the tax credit for the energy transition, ISCED, in its simplest form for taxpayers, by re-integrating the windows, for example, so that the scheme is truly incentiveful and virtuous, both for ecology and for the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u77	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u78	This is our first proposal. Secondly, to accompany the ecological and energy transition in France, the territories must be mobilised. To do this, we must support local initiatives – and it is not the minister who will tell me the opposite – through the territories with positive energy for green growth – TEPCV – which, on the ground, demonstrated their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u79	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u80	They weren't funded! They've been signed without funding!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u81	These TEPCVs are one of the keys to the success of the ecological transition: I saw it in my own department. So let's give ourselves the means to invent the second generation of these TEPCVs. This is our second proposal. Finally, combating global warming also means protecting our biodiversity and combating soil artificialisation. Your Government presented an ambitious biodiversity plan in July. We recognize that this is a point of support, a road map, but the budget you are presenting to us will not, unfortunately, be able to respond to the scale of the problem. That is why we will propose amendments to limit the artificialisation of the soil and to encourage agricultural activity. In conclusion, Minister of State, I want to make a collective warning: the ecological transition cannot be used as a screen or pretext for simple fiscal performance measures. This is the worst service to the cause that we all stand for here. But that is what you are doing, Minister of State, if we believe the document you have provided us with.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u82	Yes! The masks are falling!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u83	In the preliminary assessment of the articles of the 2019 Finance Bill, i.e. the impact study of this budget, we find that fuel tax measures are justified only by their accounting performance, never for their environmental utility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u84	It is because the budget is in the red that taxation is green!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u85	We are all returning from our constituencies and we have all heard the discontent, the grunt, and even the anger of our fellow citizens. The answer cannot be obstinacy. The answer is to resume the trajectory of ecological taxation so that it is fairer...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u86	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u87	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] ... but it is also and above all proposing real alternatives, cleaner and less polluting, and giving itself the means to ensure that France is at the rendezvous of environmental excellence for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u88	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u89	I thank you for your contributions, but, as you know, in the new organisation of the budget debate, I cannot answer to each and every one of you. However, I would like to say a word about the recurring issue, which I have mentioned myself, of ecological taxation and its use. Mr Garot, you cannot constantly call us to action and, when we act, tell us that this is not the time or not the right way to do it. This is the best way to always postpone the difficult choices that are needed in the field of ecological taxation, as has been the case for years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u90	Well, let's do it, let's do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u91	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] With regard to the areas with positive energy for green growth, which you mentioned, I would like to point out that contracts were signed until the weeks before the 2017 elections, but that they were not funded. And I, in my budget, finance the slate left by the minister of ecology at the time. Mr Saddier, I think we share the same objectives, but you are talking about an unacceptable, unbearable tax shock of EUR 14 billion...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u92	I've been talking about an unprecedented shock!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u93	... while forgetting to recall that, at the same time, measures to reduce taxes benefit businesses and households, since the reform of the housing tax will be EUR 11 billion less taxes. But in the same intervention, while deploring this "tax shock", you are wondering how we will finance the damage of climate change. You are right to ask this question and I would refer it to you, Mr Saddier: how will we finance investments in the ecological transition and repair the damage of climate change, which is already palpable in the Aude, in the Var and in many other departments, if we do not have revenues?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u94	Allocate the recipes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u95	And, in this connection, I would like to address in particular those Members who claim to be from the left: ladies and gentlemen, the left-wing Members, how can public investment and public services be financed if there is no revenue?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u96	Stop making tax gifts!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u97	By restoring the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u98	I want us to be allergic to tax and to be called to protest on November 17, but in that case, we must not be addicted to public spending! We can't be allergic to taxes and addicted to public spending at the same time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u99	We can tax kerosene!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u100	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You have to choose! We undertake to present a budget that includes both expenditure and revenue: we assume to spend an additional $1 billion on the energy transition, to tax pollution and carbon more and to tax labour and businesses less.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u101	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Perrine Goulet, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u102	Minister of State, with 1 billion euros in additional appropriations, the budget of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition increases by 3.1%: this is a positive signal, which demonstrates our willingness to meet the great challenge of the fight against global warming. In the continuation of the Paris climate agreements of 2015 and the subsequent vote on the energy transition law, defining a trajectory of ecological taxation, and in particular of the carbon tax, we are now seeing a rise in power of the latter. It must be noted, however, that there is a growing controversy over environmental taxes, their increase and the consequences they would have on the purchasing power of the French. Green taxation is broad and has little visibility: we have twelve energy taxes, eighteen transport taxes, seven pollution taxes and four taxes outside Eurostat, if I have not forgotten. What is their usefulness? What is their effective return to the benefit of ecology? The carbon tax, which was introduced in 2014 and was relatively painless at the time of its implementation, is rapidly rising. Today, in addition to this, oil and gas prices have risen and the effects of a stronger euro have increased. As a result, households' energy bills have increased and have been invited in recent weeks in the debate on the purchasing power of the French. In a report by the Green Economy Committee, our colleague Bénédicte Peyrol pointed out the social acceptability of fuel tax increases and called for better communication with taxpayers and local authorities on the issues and use of environmental tax revenues. I agree with her on this point, because I am convinced that in order for there to be consent to tax, it is necessary for taxpayers to know what this tax is for. We must therefore do pedagogy and explain. Minister of State, how much is all of these taxes? How much is given to the energy transition? How will these tax revenues be used to finance this energy transition, and how high? You will soon be presenting multi-annual energy programming: can you tell us more and reassure the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u103	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u104	Thank you, honourable Member, for this question, which gives me the opportunity to detail, in all honesty and objectivity, the measures for ecological transition, particularly for households. Mr. Guillaume Garot said earlier that only 150,000 homes were renovated each year. I don't know where that figure came from, and I'd be curious to know. What I know is that there were 1 million beneficiaries of the ecological transition tax credit in 2018. It is 1.8 billion euros that will have been paid to households in 2018 to finance insulation work: these are concrete measures, which benefit 1 million French. On the other hand, the conversion premium to buy a car that pollutes less, consumes less, and therefore costs less to use, reached 250000 beneficiaries this year, for an amount of 380 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u105	It's not the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u106	And we're going to continue this next year. We could have been tempted to brake, since the measure worked well and we had set ourselves a target of 500,000 vehicles by the end of the mandate. But we will go up to 1 million vehicles if necessary, and we will vote a budget accordingly. I'm going to the energy check. Mr Julien Aubert told us earlier that he was totally anti-ecological. I can hear it even if, in reality, it is the old social tariffs on electricity and gas that have been extended to all heating modes, including fuel oil, precisely because we consider it a measure that allows us to pass the course of the increase in oil and fuel prices for the households concerned. This year, this measure amounted to 560 million euros, and we will rise to 720 million next year, because the increase in the energy check of 50 euros has a cost. We will even work with the Minister of Public Action and Accounts so that those who do not use it when they are entitled to do so can do so. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, the budget of the Environment and Energy Agency – ADEME – will increase to finance the heat fund and the budget of the National Housing Agency will increase by €800 million to finance the improvement of the most modest housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u107	Mr Bruno Millienne, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u108	Financing the energy transition is a major challenge, in a context of limited budgetary flexibility. The 2019 Finance Bill, however, provides for a substantial increase in the budget of the Ministry of Environmental Transition for the second year in a row. We can only welcome this increase in appropriations, which will in particular finance the development of multiannual energy programming. The reflection on the EPP aims in particular to define the trajectory of the development of renewable energies in France and, as such, questions the share of nuclear energy in the French electricity mix. That is why the reform of the EPP is likely to mark a third energy revolution, after fossil fuels and nuclear power. However, although the objectives are clearly identified, the current framework for their implementation may still appear somewhat unclear. For example, wind energy provisions have been passed in the law for a state in the service of a trust society – ESSOC – and provisions on the methanization in the law for the balance of trade relations in the agro-food sector and a healthy and sustainable diet – EGALIM. These measures are in line with the energy transition, but their readability may seem somewhat unclear. Will you, Minister of State, propose a great energy law, so that these objectives are strong and visible? I would also like to ask you about energy taxation, which will be one of the major topics of the new French energy strategy. Indeed, the ICTPE, which taxes fuels, has a much higher budget return than electricity. Minister of State, how are you going to anticipate future price competition? Will it be necessary to tax electricity, which is less taxed today than fuel?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u109	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u110	Mr President, you are right to say that electricity generation through the development of renewable energy is one of the pillars of our policy. We will give you more precise details when presenting the multi-annual energy programming. This is currently not a decree, and not by the law – and believe well, Mr.Aubert, since you asked me on this point earlier, that I would have nothing against the fact that there is an energy programming law. But it turns out that the current procedure provides for a decree to implement the Energy Transition Law. On renewable energy, again, we must be concrete. Several Members of various political tendencies have said that we need to accelerate and strengthen the development of renewable energies in France, which I welcome. Someone, however, was alarmed at the cost that it would cost – it seems to me to have heard Mr Saddier speak of an explosion in the budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u111	I was talking about the cost of energy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u112	We need to know what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u113	Or what we can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u114	In this case, today the cost is EUR 5.5 billion. But that's the $7.3 billion you'll see in the budget: for years, we've accumulated debt to EDF; What should have been paid for under public support for renewable energy was not. This is a new example of commitments made in the past without funding. It's easy to multiply promises when you don't finance them! For our part, we prefer to launch truth operations. In fact, we have projected an additional $1.8 billion, which will not fund renewable energy in 2018 or 2019 but will be used to pay for unpaid inheritances. We do it because it's necessary. It's a truth operation. For the future, we want renewable energy to develop at no cost to the state budget, Mr Saddier. The production costs of wind and solar energy today are almost equivalent to the market price or even lower, depending on the periods. Tomorrow, if the market price of electricity is at the same level as today, the cost of wind and solar development will be zero for the community – I'm not talking about biomass or biogas. Our objective is this: economically competitive renewable energies so that their development does not represent a budgetary cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u115	What about the cost to the consumer?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u116	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u117	Minister of State, it would be unthinkable to speak together about the energy budget and the energy transition, without linking our decisions to the daily lives of the French. In recent days it has been particularly marked by rising fuel prices. Everyone here will agree on the objectives of improving our carbon balance and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Everyone will probably also agree to define the efforts to be made by all to change our model and allow the energy transition. Beyond objectives and good intentions, the political debate must focus more on the method and means of achieving them. For example, the Government has chosen to tax and blame motorists. They will, you think, be forced to change their modes of travel or invest in clean vehicles. The reasoning could be held if it was enough to want it for power. However, you do not take into account the financial reality of modest households or small businesses which cannot afford to change vehicles and which do not have access to public transport which would, moreover, deserve to be developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u118	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u119	You make sure you want to get out of fossil fuels, but you allow explorations in Guyana's territorial waters. You are talking about the energy transition, but you are devoting only a small share of the 3.7 billion that the increase in fuel prices will bring to the state, the rest being returned to the general budget. The energy transition trust account grew by only 1.3 per cent, below inflation. You claim that you have to accompany the transition, but you maintain too low amounts of conversion premium, you refuse to reduce VAT on clean vehicles, you refuse to use the energy check for fuel, you exclude doors, windows and insulating shutters from the energy transition tax credit, you bury the territories with positive energy for green growth. You're talking about renewable energy, but you're about to compete with our hydroelectric dams. That makes far too many bad signals. Minister, I will ask you only one question, that of redistribution of resources. Do you not think that all these new revenues should be allocated to the transition, which will then be positive and not punitive?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u120	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u121	Madam Member, you say that everyone agrees on the objectives. I'd be very happy, but I'm not even sure. You're still wondering what we're doing, beyond good intentions. I would like to refer the question back to you, because your speech is a series of criticisms. If I understand the message you are delivering to the French, it is simple: "Don't change anything! " We should fight climate change, without changing anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u122	Except the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u123	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u124	Nothing should be changed in the areas of transport, cars and heating. Fortunately, the French understood very well that we had to change and they have already begun. This year, 1 million French people have started work to renovate their homes, and more than 250,000 people have decided to change their cars. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You are talking about modest households, but you forget that we have precisely targeted the conversion premium on modest households: 2000 euros will be granted to modest households, 70% of the beneficiaries of this measure are modest, non-taxable households, 95% live outside the Île-de-France, in the province, in the countryside. What are we doing, Mrs. Battistel?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u125	Breakout bonus for the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u126	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I don't know if everyone has heard Mr. Aubert's proposal: "the government's breakaway bonus"! Let us bring the Government to a standstill and congratulate Mr. Aubert on his constructive proposal! It was important for all Members and the French to hear it: that is how we will fight climate change in practice and effectively. Bravo! Finally, Mrs Battistel proposes that nothing be changed about hydro-electric concessions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your leitmotiv has been the same for years, I can testify to it: not to change anything, not to take advantage of the means that could reduce the cost of producing renewable energy, whether it is hydropower or other energy. Everyone will judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u127	We're done with the questions. We are now discussing the budget discussion on transport and maritime affairs. The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the budget I am presenting to you reflects the structural transition that the Government wishes to undertake in the field of transport. This is, of course, the energy transition, but it is also a profound transition in terms of method, the transition from a building state, which must not be denied, to an "organising" state, whose main objective is to foster the emergence of mobility solutions in all territories. In line with the course set by the President of the Republic as of July 2017, we offer our citizens, throughout the country, solutions of displacement to meet their expectations by inventing the mobilitys of the 21st century, more shared, cleaner and more sustainable. The adoption of the "new railway pact" last June is the first example, with a central objective: to strengthen the offer and to present a better service for the benefit of the users. The year 2019 will mark the continuation of this ambition through the mobility policy bill, which I will shortly be presenting to the Council of Ministers. With this project, I am committed to modernising the "right to transport" – the right to mobility, I should say – by giving local actors the tools to make the most of new mobility and innovations, to spread new mobility solutions throughout the country, to meet the new needs of our citizens, as well as the environmental and climate emergency. Finally, as you know, the aim of this bill is to set sustainable programming for our transport infrastructure, which is based on four fundamental principles: ending unfunded promises, committing to clear choices, committing to what we know how to finance, in a democratic way, since it will be up to you to debate it. Having sustainable programming of our investments requires thinking about new resources. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. I come to the presentation of the Government's priorities set out in the 2019 Finance Bill, which reflect the objectives I have just mentioned. More than €8 billion will thus be invested by the State in transport, through the various budget programmes or the means allocated to the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France. Improvements will be made in several directions. The "Transport Infrastructure and Services" program will be increased by 2.3% compared to 2018. AFITF will receive almost €230 million in additional revenue, or 10% more. Additional resources will be provided to the Société du Grand Paris. Amendments will be proposed to this effect. In terms of investment, the first priority is to maintain and modernise existing networks – the tragedy of Genoa, on 14 August last, reminded us of its importance. As a result, the amount spent on the maintenance and operation of the national road network, which has averaged €670 million over the last decade, has been increased to €800 million since 2018 and the effort will continue in the coming years, as from 2019 we plan to increase the resources for roads and inland waterways by almost €50 million. But our investment priorities do not stop at road and iron: the allocation for dredging large seaports will be increased in 2019 by 29 million euros. Finally, this amount will cover almost all the dredging costs of French ports and improve our competitiveness vis-à-vis European ports. Finally, 2019 will see the commitments we have made to renew the trains of the territory's balance trains, to the direct benefit of their daily users, by raising the effort in favour of this programme to 450 million euros. Our commitments to active mobility will begin this year with the launch of the first calls for proposals for the bike plan that I presented at the end of September with the Prime Minister and François de Rugy. It is also essential to start the greening trajectory for each mode. On the basis of the proposals from the Assisi, I know that several amendments have been tabled and I welcome them. The rise in oil prices in recent months makes it more necessary than ever for accompanying measures towards clean engines, to help our fellow citizens get out of their dependence on oil. It should be noted that the budget provides for the bonus and conversion bonus for light vehicles, an increase of more than 63%, an extension of the excess depreciation for heavy goods vehicles until 2021 and its strengthening, an entry into the energy transition scheme for maritime transport. The fight against global warming does not only involve the transformation of people's mobility practices. Freight has its full place in this strategy. I am thinking in particular of combined transport, in particular the development of railway motorways. I will also go to Calais tomorrow to inaugurate a new liaison with Turin. That is why we have decided to give visibility to all the players by maintaining, throughout the quinquennium, a combined transport aid of 27 million euros per year. This budget also reflects the ambitious maritime policy decided at the Interministerial Committee on the Sea last November. The "Maritime Affairs" programme thus aims to support the economic sectors at the service of the attractiveness of our country and the protection of the marine environment. With a budget of EUR 157 million, it will continue the modernisation plan based on two axes: the improvement of our equipment, the dematerialisation and the development of portals, for sailors and for shipowners. The objectives are clear: to provide better service to users and to facilitate the work of our agents. In addition, the Air Force, which has been conducting since the spring, is coming to an end soon. Already, the means of developing regional air links will be increased by EUR 15 million. These links can be a fast and efficient alternative to large infrastructure, much more expensive and long to achieve. While the growth in the number of passengers is more than 4.6%, it is imperative to activate all levers to increase the capacity of the French sky, while continuing to ensure the safety and security of air transport and its impact on the environment. As a result, investments will be increased to almost EUR 300 million, an increase of EUR 45 million, to boost in particular major air navigation projects, such as Foreflight and Datalink. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The year 2019 marks the confirmation of our strategy to transform mobility policy. This budget is consistent with the ambition that we will have in the mobility policy bill: that of a policy that provides daily solutions to all our citizens and to all territories, of a policy that contributes to the fight against climate change and to the quality of the air, of a policy of sincere and financed choices, that is, of a credible state towards our citizens and the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u129	I call Mr Saïd Ahamada, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u130	Yesterday, the 123 skippers of the 11th Route du Rhum got off the coast in the direction of Guadeloupe. Followed by thousands of bastards, as well as by many viewers...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u131	Two million!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u132	..., the riders were also observed with a close eye by the teams of the Regional Operational Surveillance and Rescue Centre – the Corsen CROSS – who were responsible, with the support of the volunteers of the Société nationale de rescuing en mer – SNSM – to ensure the safety of the sailors. This news reminds us that the maritime administration, which is one of the oldest in France, since it was created in the seventeenth century by Colbert, works first to enable France to capitalize on its status as a great maritime nation. It has done so in this case by ensuring the smooth running of this race, but, more generally, it is working in this direction by means of measures designed to increase the weight of the blue economy, which, to date, accounts for about 1.7% of the working population at national level. Within the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", it is the appropriations of the 205 "Maritime Affairs" programme and the 43 "Ports" action of the 203 "Transport Services and Infrastructure" programme that contribute to this objective. The purpose of these appropriations is, for example, to compensate social bodies for the exemptions from employers' charges granted to shipowners, to train seafarers, including future merchant navy officers in the École nationale supérieure maritime, to subsidise large ports in order to support their competitiveness in the face of European competition, to secure roads and port access through maritime marking, and to organise and coordinate search and rescue operations at sea. This is precisely the role of CROSS, who work hand in hand with SNSM. These appropriations also ensure that vessels flying the French flag and those flying the foreign flag transiting through these ports comply with safety standards, but also with those in force in the social or environmental field. To achieve all these objectives, € 257 million will be spent in 2019 on maritime affairs and ports. If not perfect, this budget is very satisfactory, with an overall increase of €28 million compared to 2018, an increase of 12%. On the ports side, as in the finance law for 2018, the appropriations are increasing sharply, by 40.7 per cent, as you pointed out, Madam Minister: so this year they reach an amount that finally allows the state to compensate for the entire dredging expenses incurred by the large sea ports. For the latter, this is an expensive transaction, the compensation of which was so far only partial, despite the obligation laid down by the transport code. This full compensation will allow them to create policy space and improve their competitiveness and, possibly, to offer additional services to ships. Another good news for 2019 is the stabilisation to €6.2 million of the amount of the grant planned for SNSM, which had been increased by €2 million during the re-reading of the draft finance law for 2018, and which was renewed at the same level this year, which corresponds to the need expressed by SNSM. Such an evolution should compensate for the lack of revenues from the DAFN, the annual francization and navigation fee. Indeed, the product of the latter is tarnished and does not even reach the ceiling applicable to the Conservatoire du littoral. With regard to this problem of maritime pollution, on which I would like to stress, Madam Minister, that standards are not enough: we must also help the actors in the sector – shipowners and ports – to make their ecological transition. We know that the fuels currently used by ships are very harmful: I recall that a 2015 German study showed that ship pollution would cause 600,000 premature deaths per year in Europe. It is a source of anxiety – legitimate – for the residents of the major ports, in Marseilles as elsewhere. There is therefore an urgent need to act, on the one hand by encouraging shipowners to convert to clean energies, and, on the other hand, by helping our ports to equip themselves, in order to avoid that, once they are put into service, these clean ships do not refer to other ports. On the first part, the Prime Minister made commitments at the Assises de l'économie de la mer. Wishing for this to be reflected in the law as soon as possible, I have proposed by amendment to this draft finance the creation of an over-amortization device to encourage the purchase by shipowners of liquefied natural gas vessels, LNG, and, tomorrow, hydrogen or electricity. This amendment has been supported by the Government, and I thank it for that. We have thus brought maritime transport into the overall framework of the ecological transition, which has not been the case so far. On the second part, France has adopted a national framework of action for the deployment of electricity supply infrastructures at dockside and for LNG refuelling in ports by 2025. I note that its implementation is rather slow: the State could indeed intervene more in the financing of port investment projects. I will defend an amendment on this matter later. Finally, the flat-rate taxation on network companies – IFER – due to companies operating LNG terminals is far too important for small terminals: I would therefore like its ceiling to be lowered. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in maritime and port matters, all our efforts should focus on the ecological transition: this is clear in environmental matters. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Faced with the health of the inhabitants of Marseilles or of our other ports, and more generally of the French, I will not put anything in the balance. In this respect, we have an obligation to achieve results. I can count on your support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u133	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u134	Your budget, Madam Minister, like the public actions that result from it, has a profound impact on the daily lives of French and French people. In my role as Special Rapporteur on your appropriations, I carried out my monitoring and evaluation mission, to determine whether your budget was appropriate, given the challenges it faces: daily mobility; development of projects; maintenance of the heritage, i.e. our infrastructure, our roads, our canals and our railways, which are in great need of it; ecological transition of our movements and the transport of goods; the future of air transport in France and, finally, the role of the regulator in opening up rail transport to competition. I recall that, since 2017, the Government has been conducting a truth operation, breaking with the accumulation of unfulfilled promises, in order to define a realistic and sincere investment policy vis-à-vis local elected officials, citizens, road users, rail and air users, and also vis-à-vis businesses. This budget will reach €5.3 billion in 2019. It will therefore be on the rise this year, reflecting the State's commitment to the development of the territories and their de-enclavement. The network of national roads, which is essential for the daily life of the French, has been abandoned for too long, and it must be renewed for half. The funds for its maintenance and regeneration are also increasing and will amount to €830 million, confirming that the Government is not against the car or the rural territories. The increase in the efficiency of the domestic consumption tax on energy products will also serve to accelerate the regeneration of roads. I would also like to mention the contribution of heavy goods vehicles to the maintenance of road networks, to the wear and tear they cause, regardless of the nationality of the transport company. With regard to our channels, in this budget, the State's contribution to their regeneration and development is increasing by 50%. As an example, I welcome the reopening in the North of the Sambre Canal, scheduled for 2020: it was a closed effect for twelve years, even as it drains tourism and freight transport. This budget also consolidates and prepares the new railway pact, as the resources of the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities, ARAFER, are progressing, even if the Special Rapporteurs call for an additional effort, in particular to accompany and secure the approaches of the regions preparing for the opening up to competition of the TERs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u135	It weighs on their budgets!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u136	It should also be pointed out that the State finances EUR 2.4 billion in access charges for licensed railway lines: these are, ladies and gentlemen, TET networks, land balance trains, and TERs. At the same time, it is preparing for the recovery in 2020 of €25 billion of SNCF's debt, a debt that had been put under the carpet by previous governments. With regard to major infrastructure projects, I welcome the fact that the State has made all the transparency on the real cost of the Grand Paris Express: 35 billion euros, or 55% more than the original estimate. One can also wonder why, in its time, it had been so low. The innovative method of financing this work, with secured loans, can also be replicated for other major regional projects. I am thinking in particular of the Seine-Nord Europe Canal, which will finally come into being and which – with 50,000 jobs and a considerable number of trucks less on the A1 motorway, particularly saturated – is a great economic boon. EUR 300 million is foreseen for civil aviation, an increase which is indispensable to cope with the increase in air traffic, particularly for air navigation personnel. AFITF's resources are also up by 10% and reach €2.7 billion, thanks to the levy on motorway dealers, but also thanks to the product of the ICTPE. This agency is finally emerging from the financial stalemate in which it was located and which was reported by the Court of Auditors in 2016. Finally, with regard to the bonus-malus, the dynamics of the conversion bonus show that it is appreciated by the French, in particular non-taxable households not residing in Île-de-France. I don't forget the bike plan either. As you have understood, the Government is looking to the future, and therefore, more broadly, towards mobility that has a budget that is both realistic and ambitious, because moving around is a fundamental element at any age and for any portfolio. I have no doubt, minister, that you will take care of this in the next mobility bill. France's logistics capabilities in terms of goods are also a real asset of its economic attractiveness. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let us therefore take advantage of our geographical location in Europe, but let us also protect the population from environmental consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u137	Mr Damien Pichereau, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u138	For the second year in a row, I have to report, as draftsman of the opinion, on the increased appropriations allocated to the programme 203 'Land and river transport'. I would particularly like to commend the Government for the political course it has chosen to follow since the beginning of the quinquennium: the regeneration of existing infrastructure and the priority given to daily transport must enable the transport sector, which is vital for the economy of the country and for the daily life of our citizens, to fully understand the ecological transition. This budget is the practical application of this. As a first step, I wanted to focus my remarks on our road network, in order to be able to demonstrate to the population that the first of the challenges of its regeneration is that of their safety. In the middle of the summer, our fellow citizens have indeed felt legitimate concerns following the collapse of the Morandi Bridge in Genoa, Italy. An external audit, commissioned by the Ministry of Transport and carried out last year, shows a rather worrying finding, as the previous years have been paced by cuts and cuts in the cost of preventive maintenance of our roads and works of art, so that this lack of maintenance has been specifically described as a "grey debt". Therefore, these findings have not remained unanswered: in total, commitment authorisations increase by EUR 52 million and payment appropriations by EUR 27 million. In addition, the major investment plan 2018-2022 provides an additional €700 million to support this renovation: we can say, however, that we are up to the stakes. I would like to focus for a second time on environmental taxation, which I have also had the opportunity to study. Unfortunately, she is the victim of a press that I would call unfair and a rare hypocrisy of the policies on both sides of this House. While it is today a good tone to say that our house is burning, few politicians act as we do to make – at last – the decisions necessary for this common awareness. Less than three years after the historic signing of the Paris Agreement, which few politicians thought possible, and a year after the rescue of this common international ambition by our President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, following the disengagement of some populists at the head of the United States, resonates, here in France, a rumble against an energy transition announced for more than thirty years and amplified with demagogy by the very ones who tried, without success, to initiate it. What is ecological taxation? It is not a mere accumulation of taxes that would "wrong" the French. What we want is to be more effective than our predecessors, who, with beautiful tearing speeches, have explained to us that pollution is wrong. We prefer to act. According to the report of the European Environment Agency, published last Monday, air pollution is responsible for nearly 400,000 premature deaths in the 28 Member States since 2015. Go tell the yellow vests! All energies are polluting, you will retort me. I will tell you that the only clean energy is, in fact, the energy that is not produced – but is it reasonable? There is no question of returning to the stone age. It is a question of understanding that only the energy mix will allow us to choose an energy according to our uses. As the Minister of State has said so well, we must get out of all the oil. Of course, we increase taxes, but we do. As for the singers of the sacrosanct purchasing power, those who would like to make our fellow citizens believe that the state is responsible for the 30 cents of increase in fuel, while this increase is due to more than 70% in the international context,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u139	In that case, stop raising taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u140	...I want to tell them that the time is no longer for political politics and blah-bla, it is for truth and action. The truth is, oil will continue to grow, because it will become scarce. The truth is that in 1980 a full fifty liters cost the equivalent of fourteen hours of work at the SMIC, compared to less than ten today, and that with the same full, we are now almost 300 kilometers longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u142	Finally, the truth is that we are accompanying our compatriots in this transition by increasing the amount of the energy cheque, by the bonus for the purchase of an electric bike and, above all, by the system of buying bonuses and conversion bonuses, which will soon be extended, as announced by the Government, to hybrid vehicles, or by supporting active mobility, as I will propose to you to do earlier, by way of amendment. This premium was a real success this year, with nearly 250,000 beneficiary households, nearly 70% of which are non-taxable households. We accompany the French without denying our commitments or betraying us. Finally, I would like to share with you my pride. I am proud that the climate, energy and environmental challenges of our century are being taken up by the Government and the majority. Above all, although I am Manceau and passionate about automobiles, I am proud to sit in a Chamber where it is up to me to imagine the place that other means of transport will have to take than the car. This far-reaching reflection was initiated on the occasion of the National Mobility Assemblies, which revealed an expectation on the part of society to rethink our mobility, so that it is cleaner, more accessible for all, more agile, more efficient. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These are the elements that, without being exhaustive, I wanted to bring to your attention. I invite you to vote in favour of the appropriations for this mission, because they reflect an ambition that is at the height of the transition that we want to embark on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u143	Mrs Zivka Park, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u144	The Annex budget "Air Control and Operations" will continue to participate in the national effort to reduce the public deficit in 2019, continuing its debt-debt path initiated in 2015. Debt, which had reached a record level of €1.3 billion in 2014, will reach €804 million in 2019, a 40 % reduction in debt over five years; It's exceptional enough to be noted. At the same time, the level of taxes and charges will continue to decrease: the rate of the road charge will decrease by 4.2 per cent, for the greater benefit of airlines. It will have fallen by more than 13% between 2015 and 2019. In addition, the 2019 Finance Bill will continue the search for structural savings: while funding its operational expenditures, the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation – DGAC – will reduce its operating expenditures for the fifth consecutive year, which is to be welcomed, as the amount of this decrease is directly allocated to debt relief. The draft budget for 2019 also provides for the maintenance of a high level of investment of €298 million in order to comply with the requirements set out in the second European Performance Plan, while ensuring the expenditure related to security requirements. Thanks to the good health of air transport, and thus of the DGAC, investments will be self-financed to the tune of 80% in 2019, compared to only 65% in 2018. In 2019, DGAC's workforce will be almost stable. In the context of a sharp increase in air activity, and despite a real improvement in productivity, the reduction in the number of agents is limited. DGAC lost 11% of its workforce in about 10 years, while air traffic almost doubled in the same period. Particular attention should be paid to the recruitment of air traffic controllers. The continuing decline in the number of staff in this category, both in France and in neighbouring countries, has led to a deterioration in service delivery and an increase in delays. Europeans recruit many air traffic controllers. Since 2016, there has been a resumption of recruitment in France, 75% fewer than in Germany, with equivalent air traffic. The DGAC has already embarked on a programme for the recruitment of 90 controllers per year, but the training of these personnel is long and the effect of this policy will not be felt immediately. More generally, the French airscape of the period 2018-2019 will be marked by several construction sites. First, the social tensions and the wage dispute within the national company led to the arrival of a new general manager. It looks pretty good. This year was also organized the Air Transport Facilities, whose conclusions are imminent and expected, particularly in terms of environmental performance and reduction of gas emissions and noise pollution. Madam Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for saying last week at the Government Question Session that we need to reconcile the development of our airports with the reduction of air traffic noise, building on the four pillars of government policy in this area. Our fellow airport residents expect much from the mobility guidance bill, particularly with regard to the aspect relating to the control of urbanisation around airports, which enshrines the principle of an obligation to inform the purchasers of any building located in these areas. The airscape will also be marked by the official exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union in March this year. This challenge cannot be met without difficulty. Finally, the process of privatization of ADP – Aéroports de Paris – has been launched. Paradoxically, DGAC's control powers over the airport operator should be strengthened. The administration will thus have the right to review the appointment of the principal directors of ADP and may require their revocation. This right of control will apply to the managers of Charles-de-Gaulle, Orly and Le Bourget airports, as well as to the managers of all the secondary airports of Île-de-France. DGAC will also have a say in investment. It will be able to veto certain investments and impose capacity investments, as is already the case for private provincial airports. The value of ADP remains to be estimated in order to complete the disposal, given that transactions of such an amount are not frequent. In conclusion, I would like to stress the need, in order for air transport to be better accepted by as many as possible, to continue the fight against its nuisances unabated. Manufacturers participate, but the renewal of the fleet is slow. The solution also involves the use of new airport approach procedures, such as continuous descent or regrouping of trajectories. The effort must not be released. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] The Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning has delivered a favourable opinion on the adoption of the appropriations for 2019 of the Annex budget "Air control and operation".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u145	Mr Jimmy Pahun, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u146	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleague Ahamada, I was there this weekend in Saint-Malo with some of you! I had the chance to attend a fabulous show: it was necessary to see this crowd of passionate and curious people gather as close to the water to see the departure of the Route du Rhum and those women and men who took the sea. In a festive city, I thought for a moment that the whole of France was the same as the corsair city and that the French, wherever they are, celebrated the sea – only for a moment, because the reality is different. We all know this in this Chamber: the French, alas, are not sailors. The sea has ceased to be for them an object of fascination, evoking adventure and progress, even though we have great assets and the blue economy offers many opportunities. However, we have reason to be optimistic about this finding. The Government has taken full advantage of maritime issues and is committed to a policy that is strongly supportive of the blue economy. No doubt this is due to the harsh tropism of the Prime Minister – which is likely to be verified at the next inter-ministerial committee on the sea. I welcome this, because I believe in the role of the State and in its capacity and duty to encourage, facilitate, finance and guide, in the service of the general interest. The budget we are looking at today is one of the main levers that we must use to give the public power the means to achieve this. Last year's credits were maintained for 2019. I am particularly pleased with the increase in the State's financial commitment to the SNSM, the sustainability of the exemptions from employers' social contributions for the commercial navy, the increase in the appropriations allocated to the interministerial action of the sea, after several years of significant freezes and cancellations, and the increase in the appropriations used to finance the dredging of access to the major seaports. If the overall picture is very positive, I would, however, like to draw your attention to one point. The Maritime Affairs workforce has declined by 10% since 2010. However, this year again, the employment ceiling has been reduced. It is essential, however, that, beyond the financial means, we retain human resources to meet the challenges of maritime safety. This is all the more important because we will have to face even greater challenges, due to the imminence of Brexit. In this respect, it is imperative to agree with the United Kingdom on fisheries: we cannot accept the brutal deregulation of this sector of activity. The recent episode of Santiago allowed us to see what tensions and abuses this would generate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u147	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u148	The stakes are important – let us also think about the integration of French ports into the new maritime corridors that will link Ireland to the continent. The uncertainty surrounding these issues is detrimental to our economic actors. We should be able to reassure them more, or at least to give them greater visibility in the future, as we have just done with the creation of a tax-relief system for liquefied or decarbonated natural gas propulsions. It is a movement that needs to be accelerated: if non-financial levers exist to foster research and innovation, we need to activate them. Maritime transport has entered the energy transition late but on the ground, due in particular to the new standards imposed by the International Maritime Organization for sulphur and CO emissions. Other regulations could be usefully monitored, for example to reduce the speed of commercial vessels or to create a SECA zone – sulphur-controlled emission zones – in the Mediterranean. It's up to France to propose them. I know that it is already doing so to preserve the marine environment. The Ministry of Environmental Transition is also very committed to another subject, that of pollution of the sea by plastics, the outcome of which will be found on land. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] I mentioned in my introduction the lack of interest of some in the maritime thing, the ocean having ceased for them to represent a horizon to conquer, a border to be pushed back, with, beyond the seas, the unexpected and the sublime – we saw it yesterday again in Saint-Malo. Today, this frontier is no longer geographical, but technological: the maritime industry is undergoing a real revolution. We have a chance to attract new talents, to inspire vocations and to convince everyone of what France owes to the sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u149	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u150	[[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This morning, Bruno Le Maire taught us a great news, up to the debate: he too is paying for it. Does he want a medal for this feat? Mr Bruno Le Maire is one of the best paid Frenchmen...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u151	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u152	In CAC 40, there are a lot of people who earn more!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u153	... with more than 9,440 euros gross monthly. I would point out that, according to the latest INSEE statistics, half of our citizens have earned 1772 euros net per month. They do not benefit, like his colleague Muriel Pénicaud, from the end of the tax on wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u154	You're the queen of approximations, Mrs. Panot!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u155	This morning's communication is a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u156	What is shameful is to mount the French against each other as you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u157	The anger of our compatriots is due to double standards. There is punitive ecology for the poor and freedom to destroy and pollute for the rich.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u158	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u159	Your budget is a clear proof of that. As of January 1, 2019, the French will see an increase of 6.5 cents in diesel and 2.9 cents in gasoline. This will affect the purchasing power of energy-impaired households, isolated households or residents of areas underserved by public transport. In the space of a year, fuel prices have blazed, with an increase of 10 to 12 euros for a full of 50 litres. As you know, 60% of the increase in the price of fuel is due to French taxes and not to the world market, contrary to what your smoking tends to make seem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u160	What you're saying is wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u161	Let us be well understood: for us, the problem is not environmental taxation, but its inclusion in your usual method, which means that it is always the same people who pay. Just as you're not going to look for the €80 billion of tax fraud, you're leaving Total alone, kerosene and banks investing in fossil fuels. You blame people for protecting your friends! So stop pretending that it is for ecology that you once again undermine the purchasing power of our fellow citizens. When you say so, you lie. In 2019, only 19% of TICEP's revenues – the domestic consumption tax on energy products – will be spent on the energy transition, up from 21% in 2018. With 37.7 billion euros of expected revenue, you intend to increase the appropriations of the Ministry of Ecology by only 0.22%. You are boasting of an overall increase of EUR 1 billion in favour of the ecological transition; But, when we consider the total amount of revenue, this figure appears insignificant and, above all, insufficient, not to mention the dismantling of the State's public operators, which are nevertheless necessary for the ecological transition. Emmanuel Macron recently stated that he "prefers the taxation of fuel to that of work", as if it was not taxing work to tax the fuel that many French people need to get to their workplace. And to get there, there's often more than just a street to cross, no matter what you think of the Elysée. I have an idea for Mr. Macron: taxing capital. The increase in fuel, in 2019, is almost 4 billion euros on the back of the French, exactly what could have been recovered by removing the tax niches of your friends the rich industrialists. In this regard, let us recall the figures: 3 billion tax gifts for air kerosene and 1.1 billion for road transport. You're just a tartuff of ecology: when it comes to targeting polluters, there's no one left!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u162	You're totally incoherent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u163	At the same time, you open up to competition all the key sectors that we claim as common goods, necessary for the ecological transition, especially in the field of transport: I am of course thinking of SNCF. Openness to competition has always been catastrophic in this sector. Remember what happened to freight after 2006: the tonnes transported per kilometre were divided by two in four years! Last year, greenhouse gas emissions increased by 3 per cent, while it would have taken up to 5 per cent to follow the Paris agreement. This is the concrete result of your archaic economics manuals, disconnected from the greatest stake of our time, the ecological stake. The inconsistency of your transport policy does not end there. I want the works of art, which you will leave in a pitiful state while the highway companies are "gaventing". We already know that, of the 12,000 unlicensed bridges in the network, 4000 require repairs. A first partial list of the proposed repairs was made public at the end of September, but only covers 164 works. Where's the state? Where are the dealers? When it came to financing, through public-private partnerships, major unnecessary projects, such as the major motorway bypass in Strasbourg, there was still a world! According to a 2016 report, the profits of self-employed companies increased by 25%, and dividends paid to shareholders by 41%. However, when it comes to maintaining our roads, private motorway companies become much more mischievous. In addition, the funds allocated to the rail are reserved for high-speed lines, when, at the same time, you close the small stations. You sacrifice the people of the countryside in the name of the attractiveness of the big cities, before taxing their essence to punish them to live where you have deprived them of public transport. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] However, competition is not all: you also privatize the railway heritage. In Paris, the Gare du Nord and some of its profits are entrusted to the Auchan Group! Is it necessary in this country to be a family of tax fraudsters patented to receive something from the state? Pay those who have to pay, rather than pocket our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u164	Well...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u165	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u166	It is difficult, Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to pass after Mrs Panot,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u167	[[Smile]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u168	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u169	It shouldn't be too hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u170	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...who, basically, said things that were quite interesting. First of all, it is important for us to put this budget in perspective. As has been pointed out, it comes a few months after the railway pact – which, in our view, threatens the sustainability of the public rail transport service – and a few months before the consideration of the mobility policy bill, which places companies, not citizens, at the heart of the animation and governance of individualised and profitable mobility. We must also put this budget in perspective with the new multiannual energy programme, for which our House will not be consulted. It is normal, we are told, but at the end of the day it raises the question, since this programming will also concern transport. In our view, there is a democratic deficit vis-à-vis our Assembly. Nor can we ignore the social context, it has been said and repeated. The purchasing power of the French is greatly affected by the trajectory of fuel prices, in the context of the closure of a number of nearby stations or counters and the growing distance from public services. All of this raises questions about the ability of our fellow citizens to access, under acceptable conditions, their workplaces and the services they need. Finally, we cannot ignore the issue of security: you have said so, Madam Minister. The state of our roads and works of art is also a subject of questioning. In these circumstances, the limitation of speed to 80 km/h on secondary roads cannot be the alpha and the omega of the answer given to our fellow citizens. These preliminary remarks invite us to be very careful about the budget that we are dealing with. It is not enough, for any answer, to brandish the argument of an upward budget: it is happy, I want to say, especially since you are still arguing with a forced financial framework to reject a number of requests to increase the efforts made by the State. As regards road infrastructure, we are all aware of the worrying state of the unlicensed road network, which is a source of increased risk. While funding for this network is increasing, although it is below the level required by the multiannual requirements, there is no provision for the renovation of the departmental and local road network, while it accounts for 98% of our network and it is already suffering indirectly from the stagnation of allocations to the communities, whose capacity to invest in the same network is thus constrained. We are also wondering about the appropriateness of new motorway and motorway bypass projects, which are harmful to a number of our fellow citizens. The choice of the concession also announces new tolls for users. As we have said, it would have been possible to direct these appropriations towards public transport projects, in particular within metropolitan entities, but also to finance bicycle infrastructure, the budget allocated to them seems to us to be very homeopathic. As far as rail transport is concerned, we denounce the abolition of services, stations and counters, with 900 less jobs at the key. The removals of controller and freight stations also augured for a deterioration of small lines. This, of course, is not our vision of public service. The same logic, moreover, will insinuate itself in the field of river transport and heavy freight. Despite the many advantages of the sector, the professionals deplore the increasing breakdowns and malfunctions in all the basins, especially on the small river network in some regions. This budget is based on unfairly collected revenues and, moreover, insufficient: in addition to giving gifts to the richest you refuse certain deposits, whether they are motorway concession companies, large distribution groups, large road transport companies or airlines: all of the leading private actors whose profits are substantial and whose influence on the infrastructure is considerable. Members of the GDR Group, particularly Communists, have multiplied the revenue proposals in this area, and you have ignored them. This refusal attests to a choice of class on your part. The same reason leads you to ignore the additional contribution to corporate tax that we are asking for, which is in your eyes only Bolshevik madness. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] In these circumstances, we believe that this budget is once again below the needs. For us, it reveals a blatant lack of ambition. Thank you, Mr President, for having been kind enough to leave me the floor beyond the time allotted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u171	[[Smile]] Overkindness... The next speaker is Mr Jean-Marie Sermier, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u172	In this worrying context, there should be a consensus, a sort of sacred union around the ecological and transport budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u173	Then join us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u174	Yet this is not the case, because the Government's policy is limited to one thing: taxing taxpayers without offering them a solution to reduce their pollution. The most shocking thing is that the money raised through this is not always used to finance environmental policies. Thus, 90% of the increase in fuel taxes will fall into the Danaides' barrel of the general state budget! The same applies to the increase in TGAP.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u175	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u176	This revenue will therefore not help to finance more virtuous environmental action. But fiscal madness does not stop there: the ecological malus will apply next year to more new vehicles; the contribution to the public electricity service, multiplied by five in eight years, has become the main line of an ordinary electricity bill; The domestic consumption tax on natural gas, however, increased by 44% as of 1 January 2018. The truth is that the Government, which fails to reduce public spending, is seeking to bring in new revenue by all means. He does it with the radars, with the CSG and with the pension. But it also does so with ecology, taking advantage of the opacity of the tax system applied to it. However, one day it will be necessary to change the eco-tax architecture in favour of a more readable and coherent system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u177	That's what we've been working on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u178	If the tax explosion is obvious, the way in which the Government targets a particular category of French is inappropriate. This category is the inhabitants of our countryside. This is proof of the unbearable increase in fuel prices. She's violent and unfair. It strikes French people who need their vehicle to go to work or take their children to school.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u179	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u180	"La France d'en bas", to paraphrase Jean-Pierre Raffarin, grunts. A national day of action is planned for 17 November. In my department, Jura, anger is such that motorists did not wait for this date to organize their own demonstration, in the middle of the Toussaint weekend. Such a wind of discontent must not leave us indifferent. And in the series of affronts to our campaigns, I do not forget the increase in the price of domestic fuel oil and therefore the significant increase in the cost of heating that will result for 10 million French. Let us not forget, since we refer to transport, the limitation of speed to 80 kilometres per hour on secondary roads, which directly affects the lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u181	Bingo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u182	Yes, it's starting to work a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u183	As far as transport is concerned, the finance bill lacks ambition.In the rail sector, the questions raised last spring, during the reform of the SNCF, have still not found an answer while, Madam Minister, we have had an opportunity to debate them. The Government wants to recover 35 out of the €47 billion of SNCF Réseau's debt. Either, but there is no mention of it in the text. So we will have to wait until 2020 to find solutions – always postpone what we could do today... On the other hand, we are still in a state of ambiguity about the future of small railway lines, which are essential to spatial planning. In the air domain, you have chosen to privatize Aéroports de Paris. For reasons that affect the sovereignty of our country, we remain very perplexed. Finally, the first elements that we have on the mobility guidance law are disappointing, whether they are the creation of urban tolls, which even mayors in large cities do not want, the supervision of carpooling, self-service bicycle fleets and electric scooters, or the creation of a grey card for cycles. The tone is set! It will not be a matter of strategy but of small rules, constraints and taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the House to take a step back, to stand up, to anticipate changes, to prepare for the future. We have a beautiful project to build, articulating progress, economy and ecology, involving new techniques such as methanization and pyro-gasification, which would allow both new opportunities for our farmers and the production of decarbonated energy. We should imitate Germany where the first hydrogen train was put into service, or other countries that started the hydrogen car. Let's put the package in research and development! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Indeed, we are at the dawn of a paradigm shift, unprecedented technological change and changing lifestyles. It is therefore a pity that the finance bill does not rise to the level of the stakes. It is the society of tomorrow that we must imagine, anticipate and prepare. We have a great challenge, but unfortunately you are not on the date.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u184	Mr Bruno Millienne, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u185	The issue of transport is at the heart of the ecological challenge that we have committed ourselves to facing an emergency that reminds us more and more concretely. This issue is also a matter of the urgent need to combat climate change and its dramatic consequences, which are now unquestionably known to be mainly sources of greenhouse gas emissions. The collective awareness of the absolute need to speed up the ecological transition – to which France has contributed very extensively in recent years – was demonstrated in 2018 by a renewed support for initiatives to develop more virtuous modes of transport: carpooling, setting up shared or electric vehicles in self-service, ambitious public transport investment policy or considerable growth in the use of bicycles in Hexagon. All these initiatives are opportunities for our citizens to reduce the carbon footprint of their travel. Only, Madam Minister, "criticism is easy, but art is difficult." So did our colleague Garot not say just now that we lack courage? But where was he, Mr. Garot, when the previous government itself missed so much when it cowardly abandoned the ecotax? You supported him well, though, this government, Mr. Garot? We lost about 5 billion euros a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u186	Where did that figure come from?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u187	Besides, you have allowed the budget deficit to deteriorate. Five billion euros a year that we would have reinvested in favour of the ecological transition...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u188	Well, let's see.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u189	... and in particular in accompanying our fellow citizens to take their full part in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u190	Ask the minister what she thinks!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u191	The French are committed to moving towards a healthier and more environmentally friendly mobility. It is the responsibility of the public authorities to promote the emergence and availability of the most appropriate tools to meet these expectations. This includes a new offer of services reflecting the State's commitment to clean mobility and air quality. On the other hand, I do not believe for a moment that it is necessary to introduce a fuel ticket, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u192	We didn't talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u193	This is your last proposal and I do not find it very ingenious, since the fuel ticket is in fact a pollution subsidy financed by the motorists themselves, our colleagues LR considering this financing by the motorway companies and therefore by the tolls charged by the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u195	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As for the Members of the La France group, they dream of only one thing, it is to state France and pay the officials in monkey currency. So far, however, I have not seen in them the shadow of a solution favouring the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u196	Yet we have drawn up a counter-budget! You should take a look at it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u197	The various reforms that you have undertaken, Minister, have thus been aimed at promoting transportation solutions with the lowest carbon footprint. I would like to reiterate the support of the MODEM Group for your proposal for a comprehensive and ambitious overhaul of our transport policy. It is imperative that the priority of the transport sector becomes daily mobility. There is an urgent need to move from an equipment policy to a mobility strategy, which must give priority to daily transport, its maintenance, its modernisation and its diversification. However, the condition of roads and works of art is severely degraded, and every user sees this every day. The situation is also critical for all transport: on the one hand, high-speed lines are always more efficient and, on the other, the infrastructures and trains of everyday life are increasingly degraded. It is therefore necessary to review the priorities by giving priority to the rehabilitation of these daily roads. The answer must no longer be curative, but preventive. We welcome the fact that the appropriations allocated to programme 203 are increasing by EUR 194 million. This increase will, in particular, help to maintain and improve the state of existing transport networks in order to ensure better efficiency for the needs of everyday life. I also welcome the strong commitments to the Clean Vehicle Acquisition Trust Account, which promotes virtuous behaviour by promoting sustainable mobility and thus reducing greenhouse gas emissions. On this point, I call for the development of the use of hydrogen as a complement, for example, to battery-powered vehicles. In line with the hydrogen plan presented last June, tax measures could be taken for the purchase of a hydrogen car whose cost is now significantly higher than its thermal equivalent. It is essential that the French do not feel ecological taxation as punitive and that the ecological transition is a real transition, based on incentives, to better support our citizens, taking into account individual or particular situations. This is the case, in particular, in rural areas where conversion aid and bonus-malus are limited. As such, it is important to strengthen the incentive to incorporate biofuels. Our French bioethanol sectors are capable of supporting demand. The installation of ethanol-certified housings on vehicles is a cost-limited solution that would achieve the goal of reducing greenhouse gas and fine particulate emissions, with which the French would achieve savings at the pump. This will be discussed during the review of non-attached items. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on many benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to say a word, finally, of the appropriations for maritime affairs. In our interventions, we often recall France's strong maritime ambition. We look forward to the second world maritime facade after the United States. It is true that, from this point of view, our potential is great and the opportunities immense. The maritime affairs budget shows that we have taken full advantage of these issues. For all these reasons, the MODEM and related groups will vote for these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u198	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u199	There are several ways to analyze this text. For my part, I will do so by addressing three current challenges, which are all key issues: the first, we have already discussed a great deal, is the "greening" of transport; The second, you mentioned, Madam Minister, is the ageing of the existing one; The third and final challenge is the right to mobility, an essential right for French citizens. The link between the issue of transport and the fight against climate change will not have escaped anyone. The transport sector accounts for about 30 per cent of final energy consumption and even 40 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions. The draftsman, Damien Pichereau, recalled the health damage caused by air pollution in Europe – the figure of 500,000 premature deaths is generally advanced. France, in recent years, has often been caught up by the European Union and even condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union on the means used to combat air pollution. As far as transport is concerned, I shall mention two tools. The first is the vehicle conversion premium. It is a question of "greening", if I dare to express myself in this way, the means of transport. Let's not pretend that this kind of bonus is new. Some may recall the "Juppets" or, more recently, the conversion incentives designed to encourage the replacement of vehicles that consume a lot of fuel and emit a lot of greenhouse gases, by vehicles with very low emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u200	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u201	At the time of Ségolène Royal, a lot of money had been put on the table to allow this conversion. As we know, we have a fleet of some 40 million vehicles, of which only 100,000 are electric. So we're going to have to put in double bites and that's what we want to allow you to do by increasing the conversion premium to speed up the energy transition – through, therefore, the "greening" of the means of transport. The second tool is the climate energy contribution, the carbon tax. Unless it's wrong, no one here disputes the principle that leads to a price for carbon. Only, again, do not pretend to forget that this carbon contribution was introduced a few years ago – so don't count on me to question it. The situation needs to be understood in a rather pragmatic way. We cannot, in fact, pretend that the French were housed in the same sign. Some, as you know, have no choice: they have to use means of transport to go to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u202	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u203	I will insult no one by reminding that one third of Parisians own a car and that, of the 22 million rural people, many have no other choice, especially to go to work, than to have a vehicle or even two.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u204	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u205	So if you're a couple and you don't work at the same time or in the same place, you're often forced to use two vehicles. It is not a question of asking you to question the carbon contribution, but rather of ensuring that it is acceptable to all. You say you prefer to tax fuel rather than work. However, it is those who go to work who are taxed. So we need to review your copy. We must not point a finger at the rural, peri-urban people; They are not unconscious: they only want us to offer them alternative solutions. Let us make sure, for example, that the bulk or even all of the revenues from these carbon taxes are spent on the energy transition, on public transport offers, and on accompanying those who want to make different choices. Why not imagine, beyond an energy check, the means of accompaniment and aid for the purchase of vehicles? So, if I may say, accelerate... Maintenance of the existing one, as I said, is the second challenge. You have expressed ideas in this area, Madam Minister, which are in the right direction. I will stress two points: at what point will we draw the consequences of the Duron report, and at what point will we address future State-region plans that will put on the table the necessary means to deal with the ageing of the existing one? [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Last point: the right to mobility. I grant you that, from the very beginning of the process that followed the foundations of mobility, you have recalled the priority that everyone should be able to benefit from transport at the height. You have also announced the resorption of white areas with regard to the mobility organizing authorities. I would just like to know, Madam Minister, when you introduce the mobility policy bill, which we are waiting for with the impatience that you imagine, and especially how you will, in concrete terms, accompany the small communities of municipalities regarding the transportation payment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u206	Excellent intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u207	Sophie Auconia, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u208	The UDI Group, Agir et indépendants, welcomes the increase in the ecological budget, even if it is not up to what it should be in view of the increase in environmental and ecological taxation supported by the French. On the transport side, the mobility guidance law is expected for the first half of 2019. Infrastructure funding announced by the Government gives priority to the maintenance of existing infrastructure, and provides €13.4 billion over the period 2018-2022. For 2019, an additional EUR 300 million is foreseen to be redeployed within the State budget. It is therefore an ambitious and coherent budget that is presented to us in terms of travel. I would like to mention a few points that are of great interest to us. First of all, the aim of the bike plan is to increase the share of bikes in journeys from 2.7% today to 9% by 2024. For this plan, a provision of €9 million is foreseen for the sustainable mobility package that will apply to the state civil service in 2019. The bike plan will be financed to the tune of 350 million euros over seven years, an amount integrated into the multi-annual trajectory of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France. As you pointed out, minister, only 3% of trips are by bicycle, while almost half of the daily trips are less than five kilometres. This is a nonsense at the time of the climate emergency and the release of the latest alarming IPCC report. Whether you like it or not, in the country of the Tour de France, the little queen doesn't have the odds. Efforts are being made, but we need to catch up, and I will remain vigilant on this. We will be many in favour of an amendment aimed at harmonising tax arrangements for the provision of bicycles in companies: it would be interesting to extend the tax incentive already provided for the purchase of a bicycle fleet to companies wishing to rent bicycles. I also want to talk about hydrogen. We must provide for the means necessary for its establishment and development in the territories. In my constituency, where I would be delighted to welcome you, Madam Minister, to Monts – a very pretty town where the castle of Candé is located, which lives in 1937, the resounding marriage of an Englishman and an American woman – is a CEA institute where the technologies necessary for the storage of hydrogen are developed. In the nearby town of Sorigny, a hydrogen distribution station is being established, and a great idea of partnership with communities is being put in place for the purchase of hydrogen vehicles. We hope that territorial coherence will be created to enable a genuine national network connected to the territories of our European partners. However, to date, project promoters have found little support for the implementation of this major infrastructure – whether on the state side or on the financial side – even though they are the first to be sanctioned for the use of thermal vehicles. I come to a subject dear to my colleagues Guy Bricout and Stéphane Demilly: the Seine-Nord-Europe Canal – CSNE. In 2018, the CSNE company, the CSNE, had a common employment ceiling with Voies navigables de France: thirteen full-time equivalents were dedicated to the CSNE. For 2019, this now separate limit is set at 45 full-time jobs for NSCS. Finally, I can't help but go back to the daily's movements. In the IUD Group, Action and Independents, we are wondering about the consequences of the various taxes and the constant rise in the price of diesel for rural France. We do not question the courage of the reforms that you are implementing in terms of green taxation, Madam Minister, but we would like you to hear our territories. You cannot overtax the French for the use of their thermal vehicle in their daily travel, because, for them, it is not a choice: it is necessary for them. You cannot overtax them and, at the same time, do nothing concrete in favour of the small SNCF lines. I often talk to you about one of them in my constituency: the line that connects Loches to Tours is not used because it is very irregular, and very uncomfortable. It deserves to be renovated. The Regional Council of Centre-Val de Loire has credits under the State-region plan contract; On the other hand, he tells us that the State does not show a willingness to participate in the financing as provided for in the plan contract. You cannot fail to implement everything within your jurisdiction to help strengthen the use of clean transport, and, at the same time, to overtax our citizens because they do not use them! Therefore, until we can assess the content of the debate and see that amendments are adopted which will enrich this budget, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u209	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u210	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u211	The forests precede the peoples, the deserts follow them. This common place of ecology, which is probably wrongly attributed to Chateaubriand, nevertheless, gives a good measure of the process of environmental change that is currently affecting the planet. It suggests all its consequences in terms of declining biodiversity and climate change under the impact of human activities. This is why, beyond this "doxa", the ecological and solidarity transition is neither an oxymore nor a hollow expression. The ecological transition that we are implementing must brave climate change that is happening everywhere and that is causing extreme, more and more frequent, and more intense weather events. For this year alone, the list continues to grow, from floods in the Aude to the violent Italian storms of the weekend, to the fires that ravage California every summer, and not to mention the earthquakes that occur all over the world. There is an urgent need to stem this consumption on credit on nature. This is why the Green Growth Energy Transition Act set ambitious targets in 2015 for reducing fossil energy consumption and increasing renewable energy production. In this connection, Nicolas Hulot mobilized all actors to speed up the transition and implement the Paris agreement and its climate action plan. We must go even further, working in particular against energy insecurity: this is the solidarity character of this transition. Indeed, our country has nearly 4 million heat sinks, which are all factors of vulnerability that affect the portfolio and the health of the less affluent among us. Solidarity also means helping modest households to pay their bills for electricity, gas, fuel oil and wood. This is the object of the revalorisation of 150 to 200 euros of the energy check which benefits almost 4 million French. In the 2019 budget, the expenditure allocated to the ecological and solidarity transition is 34 billion euros, 1 billion more than in 2018. Let us not be embarrassed or glorified: these expenses are simply necessary! They will be linked with multi-annual energy programming, an important moment on the political agenda that will bring France's energy priorities for the next ten years. More specifically, I come to the debate that will be taking place in the next few minutes. As you know, the deterioration of air quality kills 48,000 French every year. In particular, the pollutants emitted by the transport sector are: oxides of nitrogen, particulates of exhaust gases, carbon monoxide. It therefore seems necessary to draw your attention to aids for the acquisition of clean vehicles. They are necessary for the rejuvenation of our fleet, and they aim to drastically reduce fine particulate pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. For the millions of French people who take their cars every day, we implement concrete measures such as the ecological bonus for the acquisition of electric vehicles, whether it be a car, a motorcycle, a scooter, a bike. It is maintained and can reach 6000 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u212	It already existed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u213	By breaking down an old vehicle, it is also possible to benefit from the conversion premium, which has already been endorsed by more than 250,000 households. Its criteria have been further expanded in the first part of the Finance Bill to include used clean vehicles. The Prime Minister has indicated that all the premiums for the quinquennium will be consumed in mid-2019, and you know that the Government is currently looking at ways to support consumption as well. In addition, car manufacturers are being used to accelerate the renewal of the French fleet. This is a collective challenge that does not deserve the demagogy that has prevailed in recent weeks. Finally, we must promote shared mobility for daily journeys, including in rural areas. This is, for example, the object of an experiment that we conduct in Aix-sur-Vienne in the south of Limousin. This will be more broadly the ambition of the future mobility orientation bill than to stem "autosolism" and to change our transport habits in a sustainable manner. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am convinced that, with the proposed policy, we will be able to see in a few years an improvement in air quality, and therefore in our health, and that shared mobility will have become a common mode of travel for the French, reducing the individual cost of transport. We have thus made Victor Hugo lie who said: "It is a sad thing to think that nature speaks and that the human race does not listen. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u214	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u215	I want to welcome the commitment of Members Saïd Ahamada and Jimmy Pahun to cleaner shipping. Thanks to your amendment, which the Government has supported, the budget for 2019 puts this sector in a greening trajectory. This is a first step, and you can count on my determination to go even further. Mrs Cattelot, like you, I am convinced that the role of the State is to present a sincere budget in order to restore confidence in the public word. Without denying the difficulties, it is the case of the budget that is presented to you: it makes clear choices that we know how to finance. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In a few words, I confirm that the Government does not live in a bubble. I am very aware that the rise in fuel prices weighs on the daily lives of many French people, especially those who have to take their cars every day to go to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u216	And what do you do, if you are "conscious"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u217	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] I think this is an important subject on which to avoid misdeeds. And it is a countertruth to say that the bulk of the increase in the price of gasoline is linked to taxation, you know that. The evolution of oil prices accounts for 75% of the increase in pump prices. Yes, the Government is responsible for ecological taxation, but this ecological taxation does not translate into more taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u218	How do you explain the situation, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u219	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You know all this, you who are debating the budget, because the budget is 2 billion euros less from households, and 6 billion next year is the reduction in the housing tax, the reduction in wage costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u220	What about the CSG?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u221	Our fellow citizens also have the right to the truth. But, of course, we must accompany the French, especially those who depend on the car on their daily journeys. This is what we are doing with the conversion bonus that more than 250,000 households will benefit from this year. It makes it possible to acquire a car that pollutes less, consumes less, and weighs less on the budget. It will also be the object of the mobility guidance law to ensure that, in all territories, our citizens have alternative solutions to the individual use of the car.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u222	In the meantime, gas is increasing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u223	Mr. Sermier, I welcome your interest in discussing the mobility policy bill. I share it. Mr Bouillon, the text, which is being examined by the Council of State, will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers. Mr Sermier, I ask you not to relay the fake news: no, there will be no grey card for bicycles, we only want to fight theft to encourage the use of this mode of transport! I really trust the proposals that this text will make because it has been worked on with elected associations, user associations, NGOs, citizens. In this mobility-oriented law, we will give tools to the territories whose rich initiatives in favour of alternative modes of personal car use can be welcomed – we have seen this in the context of the calls for projects that I launched a year ago. There are many smart and innovative solutions in the territories...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u224	But with what tools, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u225	Which ones? I can quote a few: carpooling, for example, or car sharing. This latter formula is not limited to Paris: it is used in Charleville-Mézières – where I will soon go to the Council of Ministers – not only in the centre, but also in the rural communes that are part of the agglomeration community Ardenne Métropole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u226	Thank you, Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u227	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to say that no government has made so much effort to maintain and regenerate existing transport networks. As I have had the opportunity to say during the debate on the law for a new railway pact, the sums earmarked for rail regeneration over the next ten years are 50% higher than those allocated to it over the last ten years. This is also true with regard to the national road network: over the next 10 years 70% more regeneration work will be carried out than in the last 10 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u228	We come to the questions. Mr Loïc Prud'homme, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u229	Madam Minister, the conversion bonus you are presenting as an ecological revolution is, on the contrary, the symbol of the impasses in which your transport policy leads us. The first stalemate is where you drive households. The conversion premium is up to €2,500 for an electric car. However, electric cars usually cost between 25000 and 30000 euros. I recall that the median annual net salary in France is 21300 euros: half of the French earn less than this amount. It's hard to imagine, under these conditions, how your meter will allow modest households to change cars! You may be proud of the fact that, in 60% of cases, this conversion bonus has been used by modest households,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u230	Not 60%, 70%!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u231	...but that makes only 150,000 cars...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u232	Not 150,000, but 175,000 cars!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u233	...on a 30-million-dollar park. There is also a question about the effect of a boon on households that have already planned to spend all their savings on buying a new car. In keeping with this level of political will, at this rate, it will take at least a hundred years to change or renew the entire park, while the latest IPCC report alerts us to the consequences of global warming as of 2030, and urges us to change our course in the next two years. Second dead end: the all-electric solution you are advocating. In 2016, 2 million electric cars were sold worldwide, representing 2.3% of the total 90 million cars sold. If everyone started buying electric cars, there would quickly be a resource problem, as 35% of the lithium produced on the planet is already used to manufacture batteries. Such a conversion would therefore run the risk of exhausting this resource in the very short term, not to mention the problems posed by recycling today. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] Finally, the last dead end is that of the all-car, which is never called into question by your policy. You must understand, Madam Minister, that most French people have no choice but to take their car to work, for lack of alternative solutions. Rather than starting their purchasing power, you should increase investments in soft and shared mobility, i.e. public transport, cycling and rail.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u234	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u235	I thank you, Mr Prud'homme, for giving me the opportunity to return to the conversion bonus, which allows the French to move to a newer vehicle, consuming less fuel and therefore less polluting. But it is the whole meaning of the mobility policy bill, which this House will soon have to debate, to propose, in all the territories, alternatives to the individual car. This is also the meaning of our investment policy: €2.6 billion will be spent over the next ten years on railway nodes. We also support public transport, with a fourth call for projects. We encourage public authorities, in all territories, to take responsibility for mobility, to offer our fellow citizens alternatives to the individual use of the car. I repeat: in all the territories, we propose alternatives to our fellow citizens. We encourage them, for example, to buy cars that pollute less and consume less. This is how we accompany all French people in their daily mobilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u236	Mrs Dominique David has the floor on a first question from the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u237	Madam Minister, although the time has come for action and even urgent action on sustainable development and transport, in recent weeks we have seen how sensitive the issue of mobility is to our citizens. In urban mobility, in European cities, the car is gradually losing ground. This is the case in Bordeaux, in my constituency, where traffic in the centre has fallen from 18% to 25% depending on the sectors thanks to a radical method: the reduction of the space reserved for the car. Bordeaux remains, however, the third most bottled city in France, mainly because of a very strong population growth and the explosion of displacements on the outskirts. Most of these trips are by car. In response to the problems related to the energy transition, but also to those relating to public health, you mentioned the possibility, in the framework of the mobility guidance bill, of installing urban tolls, particularly in the large French agglomerations, as is the case in London, Milan or Berlin. This type of device remains very unpopular, and can cause epidermal reactions – an example of which is given in recent news. During the period leading up to the municipal elections, our local elected officials will need great political courage to decide to set up these urban tolls. Minister, my question is both about the implementation of this type of device and how it works. Will urban tolls be managed by the Government, with local variations? Or will every metropolis have a great deal of room for experimentation? How does the State intend to support the implementation of these tolls? Is financial support provided? Will it be a question of giving advantage to good behaviour, as envisaged in Lille, with the experiment of a positive toll rewarding virtuous motorists? Or, as is the case in London, will it be a more arbitrary toll?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u238	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u239	I would point out that urban tolls, more specifically congestion charges, have been authorised by French law for more than ten years: this is one of the measures provided for by the Grenelle de l'Environnement. At present, however, this mechanism is neither operational nor supervised: the challenge of the mobility guidance bill will therefore be to supervise it in order to make it operational and to ensure that it will be proportionate. For example, with regard to the arrangements for setting up, information will be provided to citizens, as well as an opinion of the cities concerned. Cities wishing to introduce such a charge will also be asked to ensure the existence of alternative transport solutions, e.g. through public transport, and to demonstrate the value of this measure in terms of pollution. The rates for entry into an area and daily rates will also be capped so that they are proportionate to the stakes. The law will also require reduced tariffs for vulnerable people and residents. Finally, the mobility guidance bill will address the issue of controlling these possible congestion tolls, including automated screening methods, as is the case in other countries. You will have understood this: it is a matter of framing this mechanism to ensure that the debate will be democratic before the introduction of such congestion tolls. I insist on one point: it is simply a matter of making a tool available to communities; Under no circumstances will the State prescribe its establishment in any city.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u240	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor on a second question from the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u241	Minister, France is a recognized leader in the ecological transition and a pioneer in the fight against global warming. As the IPCC increases alarms about the global delay in this area, while 48,000 people die each year in France due to air pollution, more needs to be done to achieve the objectives set by the Paris Agreement. This is the whole purpose of the climate plan presented by the Government and the tax choices made during the consideration of the first part of this finance bill. The funding for the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" for 2019 is increasing significantly from 11.3 billion euros to 11.5 billion euros, or an additional 200 million euros, which will be invested in the transition to a more sober, sustainable and inclusive economy. Solidaire, this is the most important word to describe the appropriations provided for this mission by the 2019 Finance Bill. The ecological transition can only be achieved by accompanying those for whom it represents the most important challenge; To be accepted, it must not be against the most precarious – they need it the most – but with them. It is by helping them to reduce their consumption through national solidarity that we will be able to fully engage our country in a transition to a sober and sustainable economy and reduce the amount of energy we consume. [[Barbara Pompili applauds]] Minister, can you give us a detailed account of the solidarity measures planned to accompany our fellow citizens in controlling their travel expenses on a day-to-day basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u242	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u243	I confirm to you, Madam Member, that the mobility of daily life for all in all territories is the Government's real priority. We need to be able to offer solutions to everyone, while taking into account climate and pollution issues. From this perspective, we want to focus on shared and active modes of transport. That is why our policy aims to support public transport: as I said a few moments ago, we will launch a fourth call for projects to support the deployment of public transport in the regions. We will also invest almost €6 billion during the quinquennium in rail transport, which will allow us to develop real RERs around the major regional cities. We will also invest a lot in transportation in Île-de-France, not to mention the Grand Paris Express. The priority is therefore to develop public transport, which you know they benefit from joint pricing and employer support. Second track: shared mobility, including carpooling, wherever possible. This will be the case with the introduction of a "mobility package" up to 400 euros, paid by the employer, which will be exempt from tax and social charges, for those who use carpooling. Many other measures of the mobility guidance bill will also support carpooling: dedicated lanes, on which automated controls will take place, preferred parking lots and energy saving certificate programs to support carpooling platforms. Third track: active mobility, with the bike plan, which I announced jointly with the Prime Minister and the Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. In total, it is a whole range of solutions that we propose to promote shared mobility and active mobility. However, I repeat, the Government is well aware that the individual car will remain the core of mobility in many territories. What we want is for it to be cleaner and more shared: it is the whole meaning of the conversion bonus, which must allow our fellow citizens to switch to a vehicle that consumes less. You know, when you switch from a ten-year-old vehicle to a new one, you use 20% to 30% less fuel. Supporting the mobility of all our citizens: this is the meaning of the policy we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u244	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor on a question from the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u245	Minister, the Government is currently facing a deep crisis in the purchasing power of French and French people. You have decided to take the pockets of our fellow citizens by increasing taxes, especially on fuel; and for any answer, you invite them to choose between reducing their travel and buying a clean vehicle. In both cases, I think you're making a mistake. France is not only made up of metropolises and agglomerations:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u246	Far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u247	... it is multiple and diverse, urban and rural, made of plains and reliefs. Therefore, the responses to the challenges of mobility and access to public services cannot be the same across the country. Admit, minister, that it is difficult, when living in rural areas, not to use a personal vehicle to get to work and access public services. To this, you respond that you are implementing measures to support the acquisition of clean vehicles. Of course, but if the bike and scooter are adapted in urban areas – and again, provided you travel alone, without children, without anything to transport – this is not the case in rural areas, where the same problems arise, where the infrastructure is even less adapted and the travel times are even longer: 5 kilometres in town and 5 kilometres in rural areas, it is not the same! You'll tell me there's an electric, clean and environmentally friendly car. Some clarifications seem to me necessary in this regard. The first relates to its price: you probably know the average price of such a vehicle; You know that even with the help you intend to put in place, it remains well above that of combustion-engined vehicles. This is an insurmountable pitfall for many of our fellow citizens: a non-taxable couple will still have to pay off, deductions made from all the aid, more than 14000 euros for the acquisition of a new basic electric vehicle. The second relates to its construction and its very functioning. Indeed, if these vehicles produce less CO, they recharge from a source of electricity whose nature and origin are not always known.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u248	That's not their problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u249	Similarly, there would be much to say about how batteries are manufactured: their raw material is lithium, the production of which consumes a lot of water. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I am therefore surprised that in terms of mobility, you did not defend the principle of the energy mix by promoting the use of biofuels and the support for the installation of E85 kits on current vehicles. This solution has at least two advantages: to reduce our oil consumption and to support a French agricultural sector that is still developing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u250	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u251	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I think we have to pay attention to the words we use: we do not make the pockets of the French, nor do you intend to do them by proposing a two-point increase in VAT.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u252	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u253	What about the increase in the CSG?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u254	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I confirm that the Government is well aware of the difficulties some French people face as a result of rising fuel prices. But I say again that compulsory household levies will generally have dropped by 2 billion euros in 2018 and by 6 billion euros next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u255	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u256	You know that, because you're debating the finance bill. However, it is necessary to accompany all French people so that they can free themselves from the consumption of oil, a product that is increasingly expensive, as world prices are rising. And it is indeed the whole meaning of the conversion bonus that must allow us to switch to a vehicle that consumes less or even an electric vehicle. You also know that there are used or sold with a monthly subscription system, which allows our citizens to become aware of the low cost of the electricity bill compared to the cost of the gasoline or diesel bill. When you drive a lot, an electric vehicle is what costs the least.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u257	Why do they cost more at the end of the day?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u258	Come five kilometers to the Ardèche, Madam Minister, you'll see that it's going on, that it's going up and down!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u259	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] We accompany the French with the conversion bonus and we will continue to do so with the mobility guidance law by proposing a package of solutions in all the territories based on the initiatives taken on the spot, because I trust the intelligence of the territories and the local elected representatives to suggest alternatives to the individual car.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u260	I call the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", listed in state B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 701, the second amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u261	Under management 2017, the payroll of the Department of Territorial Cohesion was transferred from the "Equality of Territories and Housing" and "Territorial Policy" missions to the "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" 217 mission. The amount corresponding to this wage bill is now included in Action 15 "Staff under the Ministry of Cohesion of the Territories", endowed in the PLF for 2019 with 660 million euros. It seems to me quite abnormal to aggregate in this way, on the pretext of mutualisation, the expenditure of staff working for different public policies, led by two full-function ministries each. Budget documentation loses significantly in readability and, above all, in sincerity; The continuous downsizing of the two ministerial departments for many years has become very difficult to trace, including by the administration. The purpose of this amendment is to put each minister before his or her human resources responsibilities. There can be no question of masking staff contractions through a pass-through between missions. It is therefore proposed to create a new programme "Staff under the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion". The aim of this programme is obviously to be transferred to the mission "Cohesion of the territories", created in the PLF for 2018 by the consolidation of the missions "Equality of the territories and housing" and "Policy of the territories". [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is the sincerity of the budget that is at stake here. It seems to me that this is not a secondary issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u262	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u263	Dear colleague, in the absence of Mr Coquerel, I hope that you will not lose it at the same time... The committee rejected this amendment, which it would of course have supported in its own right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u264	The Minister of State has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u265	Mr. M.P., you are proposing to come back to a reorganization of departments' services that began more than ten years ago. You imply that this mutualization would not make it clear who is doing what. I want to reassure you without delay. If Mr Coquerel wishes, I will transmit to him all the documents produced by the Ministry which will enable him to identify very clearly the agents who work for the missions of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, and those who work for the Ministry of Cohesion of the Territories. The sharing of tasks improves management – and we do not intend to give it up. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u266	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 243.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u267	First of all, I would like to refer to Malaunay, a small town called the "Petit Poucet de la transition énergie". It is often cited as an example for the mobilization of people, industrial partners and many other people who believe hard as iron to the energy transition. It is one of the territories with positive energy for green growth – the TEPCV. More than 400 have flourished in our country, allowing very different territories, rural or peri-urban, with small, medium or larger municipalities, to invest fully in this transition. You will agree with me, Minister of State, that the success of the energy transition depends on the territories, i.e. on the mobilization of citizens and the emergence of projects in the fields of renewable energy, biodiversity and environmental education. All these objectives were prominent in all the projects carried by the territories chosen by the State to accompany them in this formidable movement that our country experienced some time ago. The aim of this amendment is to relaunch this system, as we know the wealth that exists in this area. You know this better than I do since you travel through the country, and you often need to be invited to inaugurate as part of territorial innovation projects. Trust the municipalities, accompany them, give them the opportunity to revive the territories with positive energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u268	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u269	This amendment has not been supported in committee and has therefore not voted. I, for my part, issue a wisdom opinion. In substance, I share the concern expressed here: support for the territories is an interesting objective. But the amendment raises two questions which it does not answer. How would these initiatives relate to the future multi-annual energy programming which we do not yet know the full content of? Coordination between the local and the national is under discussion – Ms Battistel mentioned it earlier. Secondly, there is uncertainty about the nature of the fund you want to create: let us be careful – it is the former judge of the Court of Auditors who speaks – about everything that looks like a debuggering operation, as was the case with the special energy transition envelope – that the Court of Auditors has severely criticized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u270	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u271	Mr Bouillon, many local authorities are obviously taking initiatives in favour of ecological transition, whether in the field of energy, transport or water. There is a simple reason for this: it is at the heart of their competences as regards communes or intercommunalities. When I went to the meeting of the Association des communautés de France, which brings together all types of intercommunality, from the smallest to the largest, I said that we obviously had issues in common. With regard to the balance sheet of the call for projects for the territories with positive energy, I would like to point out that there was initially a fairly special financial package.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u272	It was Royal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u273	But you know the local authorities and the territories well, and you know that one can always wonder: has there been a leverage effect – which has allowed actions that otherwise would not have taken place – or a boon effect – the financing of actions that would have taken place anyway? For this reason, the Government is focusing on policies to support actions that are confident that they will have a leverage effect. I will give two examples. On the one hand, flood prevention is already fifty-five times co-financed. I confirmed this to the local elected representatives when I went to the Aude, but this is also the case in the Var and other departments concerned. This work can be important: in Aude, it represents almost 100 million euros of investment over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u274	That's the money from the water agencies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u275	On the other hand, the Heat Fund, which is increasing in the 2019 budget, creates a real leverage effect for everything related to heat networks, renewable heat production. This is also a communal or inter-communal competence: State funding allows for the initiation or acceleration of work which would otherwise not be carried out. Unfavorable opinion on the re-creation of TEPCV.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u276	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u277	Mr Special Rapporteur, our country is fortunate enough to have enough judges from the Court of Auditors to find the right solution in terms of financial engineering. Mr. Minister of State, the important thing about this type of project is that there is a project, and that we do not act on a case-by-case basis, looking for the grant to finance specific equipment. From the beginning, there must be a reflection, an analysis, built by a territory, by all the actors of the territory. I mentioned citizen mobilization, because it is clear that there is a need to convince. And it is through a medium-term, rather than short-term, project, or through successful experience, that communities can be trained, and that they play the role of assemblers to ensure that other partners, private or public, are fully involved in the project. I think that's a good formula. You know, as I do, that the positive-energy territories for green growth have been thoroughly evaluated by the department, but also by outside agencies. Tell me one device that wouldn't have created a boon effect: I don't know. However, the overall assessment was assessed as positive. And when working on a new generation of contracts, we have to take into account past evaluations to reframe if necessary to avoid a form of sprinkle by setting priorities, which means helping communities to carry out a real project for the benefit of the energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u278	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u279	The greatest precision is required in this debate. I intend to mention 34 billion and many other things, but you have referred several times, Minister of State, to the damage of the Aude and to the financing. I did not question what the Government was proposing, but I stressed that some of that money was not being used for the ecological transition and that more could be done. However, in order to respond to the challenge of natural disasters, redeployment is primarily a matter of concern. You mention the EUR 100 million for flood prevention in the department of Aude, following the disaster of 15 years ago. I would point out that this is mainly the money from the tenth programme of intervention of the water agencies, carried out with the departments and the regions. Mr. Minister of State, I can talk to you about this, since, as you know, I played the game. When the President of the Republic moved to Aude, almost three weeks ago, to announce, on the part of the State, a rate of financing of the amount of damage going from 30% to 50%, as well as a financial envelope, which released the money? It is the board of directors of the Rhône-Méditerranée-Corse water agency, on the first day of the vote on its budget – the director of the agency and I co-chaired the board of directors that day. We have honoured the President of the Republic's speech to the tune of 20 million euros, taking a deliberation that exceptionally leads our financial commitment from 30% to 50%. It is therefore not an additional money, but a redeployment of existing budgets.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u280	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u281	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why, I stress, it is absolutely necessary, with regard to ecological taxation, to find new ways to finance the damage already caused by global warming throughout the country, including the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u282	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-05-O1047.u283	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2019; Continued review of the mission's credits "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". The meeting is adjourned.
