ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u1	The next item is the debate on a new reading of the bill, as amended by the Senate, ratifying Order No.2017-1252 of 9 August 2017 transposing Directive 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market (No.812, 1105).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u3	Mr President, the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill is to ratify the order of 9 August 2017 transposing the directive of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market, known as "payment services 2", or "DSP 2", which updates the directive on payment services of 13 November 2007, the DSP 1, and constitutes progress for the payment market in the European Union, of which France also benefits. This is an opportunity for the French financial centre that precisely meets the objectives we pursue, namely to foster innovation in order to attract talent and build market confidence, thanks to a framework that ensures the security of payments. It allows new players to enter the market while preserving consumer safety. These new players are the account aggregators – which have important potential for individuals and businesses, in that they offer educational access to their financial information – but also the payment initiators, which make it possible to facilitate transfers for users, in particular for online purchases. I would like to highlight the strong added value of these new services for the financing of the economy and financial innovation. We are committed to the development of these services, to the benefit of consumers and businesses. The Directive also improves the rights of consumers in their payment procedures. Thus, his liability for loss or theft of his payment card can only be incurred up to 50 euros, compared to 150 euros previously. The Directive also considerably strengthens the consumer's right to information. It is thus more clearly informed about the price of payment services, their duration of execution, the powers of contractual termination with its payment service provider, as well as the remedies – judicial or other. Furthermore, with regard to the strengthening of security standards for access to data in user payment accounts, the Directive is a real step forward. The so-called "strong authentication" mechanism is widespread for all online payment transactions above a threshold of 30 euros. This will significantly reduce the rate of fraud in e-commerce for the benefit of the consumer. Finally, the Directive strengthens the conditions for the authorisation and supervision of payment institutions, in particular by developing the powers of supervisors in countries in which institutions freely exercise their services. Enhanced cooperation between supervisory authorities is established in order to ensure harmonised application of the Directive in the European Union and to deter forum shopping practices, consisting of actors establishing themselves in those states where supervision is least demanding. With this bill, the Government wishes to complement three main elements of the scheme defined by the directive: accompanying the new cash delivery service as part of a purchase, also known as cashback; securing the application of the deposit guarantee to amounts deposited by certain categories of financial actors with credit institutions; speeding up the security of the bank account data protection system in the context of account initiation and aggregation services. I come first to the accompaniment of the practice of cashback. Article 2 provides for the arrangements for accompanying the development of the practice of rendering cash complementary to the customer's request when buying, better known as cashback. This service exists in most of our neighbours, particularly in Germany, Spain, Belgium and the United Kingdom. The payment services directive 2 only provides that this service can, in theory, be provided without being subject to the rules prevailing for payment services. In fact, it leaves it to States to define the practical modalities for its implementation. This service has many advantages, on which I would like to draw your attention. This will allow traders to offer a new service to their customers, which they can charge if they wish. The service will attract more customers through the opening of an additional service. It will provide a way to manage cash flows more effectively for traders. The associations of traders heard on this subject unanimously stressed their interest in the appearance of such a service. It is also beneficial for consumers, who thus see a wider range of services available to them from their traders. Most importantly, the service will respond to the isolation of the most remote territories, whose access relays to species are often too limited or remote. This is a way of responding to a concern on which my attention is regularly drawn. This is a proposal that I know the local elected representatives are very attached to. The proposed scheme will thus both provide a readable and stable framework for traders, in order to encourage the practice of cashback, but also to ensure the quality of the circulation of cash throughout the territory, and to prevent the risk of money laundering by specifying its modalities, in particular the withdrawal threshold. Secondly, the draft law complements the mechanism for extending the deposit guarantee to amounts deposited with credit institutions by certain entities in the financial sector. An amendment was adopted in the Senate, on the initiative of the Government, to clarify the drafting of the monetary and financial code so that the law explicitly extends the guarantee of deposits to amounts deposited by financing companies, payment institutions and electronic money institutions, where such amounts are not deposited on their behalf and for their own accounts. I would like to make it clear that this amendment has no effect in making financing companies, payment institutions and electronic money institutions subject to the deposit guarantee mechanism. Its sole purpose is to protect their clients, when amounts are deposited for their accounts. It is in no way the Government's intention to extend the deposit guarantee to new categories of financial entities. This would be contrary to the very purpose of the scheme. We have reassured the actors concerned on this issue. Finally, I come to the acceleration of the security of the conditions for the exercise of the activities of the new third parties. The Directive provides that most of its provisions shall enter into force on 13 January 2018, in particular the regime governing the new actors, described earlier, of aggregators and payment initiators. The Directive does, however, refer to a technical regulatory standard of the European Banking Authority, which is an essential part, concerning the computerised arrangements for access to payment accounts by these new players. This technical standard requires banks to develop secure communication interfaces, called "application programming interfaces", or " API" – application programming interface. Nevertheless, its adoption has been largely delayed and is expected to enter into force in September 2019. It is therefore proposed to anticipate its entry into force, so that, for pre-ready banks, the API can be tested and made mandatory, if it meets the performance and quality requirements set out in the technical standard, and ensure that new third-party players can continue to operate. The parliamentary debate on this bill has made it possible to clarify the guarantees provided by the general data protection regulation – GDPR – with regard to user rights for other accounts. In conclusion, I would like to point out that Community law provides guarantees to users who use services beyond the scope of payment accounts. DSP 2 is, in fact, supplemented by Regulation 2016/679, known as the "General Data Protection Regulation", which provides for a liability regime for all data controllers, such as payment service providers. The regulation provides for obligations to secure personal data on the responsibility of the controllers, with important penalties in case of violation, and a right of the user to compensation in case of violation of these rules. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The parliamentary discussions around the bill convinced me of the opportunity to invite the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL – to work closely with the Bank of France, the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – the CPRA – and the National Agency for Information Systems Security – the ANSSI – in order to clarify, in the light of the GDPR, the appropriate arrangements for accessing users' financial data. In the near future, we will refer these authorities to us, inviting them to make recommendations to ensure an optimal level of security in the provision of these services. I would remind you that we have, in parallel, called on the European Commission to establish a unified legal framework at European level that secures the use of all individual financial data and includes data from savings accounts. In doing so, we are responding to concerns raised during the discussion of the bill in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u4	Mrs Nadia Hai, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u5	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the directive of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market, known as 'DSP 2', represents real and concrete progress not only for the industry but also for consumers. It modernises the legal framework for payment services to promote competition, take into account the evolution of services offered by providers and new user practices. It helps to protect consumers better. DSP 2 cannot be regarded as a set of standards that are too technical to be understandable or too distant to have an impact on the daily lives of our citizens. Let us recall the four main contributions of the directive. First, it devotes and supervises the activities of initiation of payment and aggregation of payment accounts. It provides actors carrying out these activities with a legal framework, formalizes their rights and obligations. This improves the supply of payment services. Second, DSP 2 reinforces security standards for access to payment account data. As part of their activities, payment service providers, including payment initiators and aggregators, access user banking data. Currently, this access is done by the so-called unidentified web scraping technique: the user communicates to the provider his identifiers allowing him to access his online accounts. This mode of access presents frailties in terms of security: DSP 2 reinforces the requirements in this area. Third, DSP 2 enriches the rights of users of payment services. For example, various costs that the consumer may have to pay are regulated and the conditions for reimbursement in the case of transactions that are poorly performed are improved. Fourthly, cross-border supervision of payment institutions and electronic money institutions is made more effective. The provisions of the Directive have been transposed into the Monetary and Financial Code by an order of 9 August 2017 which the bill aims to ratify. It was adopted at first reading by the National Assembly on 8 February and then by the Senate on 22 March. The Joint Joint Committee, which met on 19 April, did not reach a common text. The first reading was an opportunity to enrich the text. In the National Assembly, two Government amendments were adopted. Again, these provisions will have a direct impact on the daily lives of the French. The first introduced in the text Article 1a, which lays down rules allowing traders to provide cash to their customers on the occasion of a credit card payment, in accordance with the cashback principle. Thus, when buying a property with a value of 15 euros, if the merchant allows it, it will be possible for the consumer to pay an amount of 20 euros and to obtain the sum of 5 euros in cash. The practice has been permitted in theory by European law since the entry into force of DSP 1, but, due to the lack of sufficient supervision by domestic law, it has not been possible to develop. Our honourable senators adopted rule 1 bis without amendment. The second amendment adopted by the House was intended to anticipate the entry into force of the provisions of the Directive on secure access to data in payment accounts. Secure communication between banks and third-party providers will take place in France through a dedicated API-type interface, which French banks are developing, in accordance with the provisions of the Directive. The API will have to comply scrupulously with European regulatory technical standards. Under no circumstances should it impede the activities of third-party providers governed by the Directive. It must be efficient and easy to use for intermediaries and consumers, as the letter and spirit of European standards dictates. The main payment initiators and aggregators are involved in the development of the API interface as part of a working group. Its secretariat is provided by the Directorate-General of the Treasury and the Bank of France. I trust the participants in this group to quickly find consensus positions on these issues, which are certainly technical but essential. In the current state of the law, the standards for access to data in payment accounts are due to come into force in September 2019. The amendment adopted by the National Assembly will make it possible to anticipate their implementation by a few months. In the Senate, in addition to specific or drafting amendments, two amendments to the Additional Rule were adopted. The first, resulting from an initiative of the Government, was intended to clarify the drafting of the monetary and financial code, so that the law explicitly extends the benefit of deposit guarantees to amounts deposited by finance companies, payment institutions and electronic money institutions, where such amounts are not deposited in their own name and accounts. The beneficiaries of these sums would thus be protected by transparency. Where an individual or company entrusts funds to a payment or electronic money institution, the institution may deposit them in a bank-held cantonment account to protect them. At present, financing companies do not hold cantonment accounts, but this provision concerns them, because it is a matter of taking into account situations that might arise. A decree of 27 October 2015, currently in force, provides for the inclusion of these sums in the scope of the deposit guarantee. However, the drafting of the law is ambiguous. It should therefore be clarified in order to secure the regulatory framework. I stress that the proposed scheme does not have the effect of making financing companies, payment institutions and electronic money institutions a member of the deposit guarantee system. Only credit institutions join and contribute to it. This principle is in no way altered by the proposed scheme. It is simply stated that beneficiaries of sums deposited by financing companies, payment institutions and electronic money institutions benefit from the transparency deposit guarantee. I support the adoption of this article. The second amendment adopted by the Senate was proposed by Alberic de Montgolfier, rapporteur of the text. The additional article introduces an insurance obligation for payment institutions, electronic money institutions and aggregators for their activities in respect of accounts other than payment accounts. These are therefore accounts outside the scope of DSP 2. The Finance Committee has deleted this provision on my proposal. It poses difficulties which have explained the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. First, this is an overtransposition of the Directive, in that it extends the scope of the insurance obligation to activities other than those governed by DSP 2. This insurance obligation would not, moreover, be accompanied by the strengthening of security of access standards in accounts other than payment accounts. The partial extension of the provisions of the directive will not provide an effective solution to the problems raised by the Senate. Secondly, this provision would create several distortions of competition. It would not apply to aggregators who would specialize in accounts that are not covered by PSD 2. Monitoring compliance with the insurance obligation could not benefit from the specific procedures for cooperation between national regulatory authorities. Moreover, it is not certain that this provision is of public policy and that it may apply to providers authorised in other countries of the European Union. I note that it is already possible for third-party providers to voluntarily secure their non-DSP 2 activities. It would not be appropriate to make this mandatory, according to representatives of insurance professionals. Finally, I would like to point out that most third-party providers that have activities in the accounts outside the scope of DSP 2 also have activities within this scope. The approval which they must obtain as such makes it possible, in practice, to guarantee the quality of their entire safety system. However, Mr de Montgolfier's proposal supports our desire to pay more attention to consumer protection and the prevention of the risks that payment initiation and account aggregation activities may entail. The General Data Protection Regulation, which entered into force in May, sets out a number of obligations relating to data security and the protection of information systems that apply to all the activities of payment and electronic money institutions. Clarification of these general standards could be specific to the payment services sector. Following the hearings I have conducted, I believe that flexible law is the right tool. It would be useful if the CNIL, in conjunction with the CPRA, the Banque de France and ANSSI, could issue recommendations or guidelines that promote good practice in the sector. It is necessary to start work at European level to extend and, where appropriate, adapt all the provisions of DSP 2 to other types of accounts, such as savings accounts. I welcome the decision of the Secretary of State to set up a mission on the subject, which I hope will begin as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you pass the bill, as amended by two co-ordination amendments to clause 6. DSP 2 is an important directive for the provision of services to consumers and for the protection of their data. The review of our bill has provided an opportunity to enrich the standards it sets.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u6	In the general debate, Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u7	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing, in a new reading, the draft law transposing the directive on payment services in the internal market. As we said at the first reading, we have no fundamental objection to this directive, which is quite technical. It is more about form that we will have some reservations. The use of empowerment has, in fact, deprived us of a more in-depth debate on a subject of general interest. As for the substance, it is planned to strengthen the prerogatives of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – the CPRA. We interpret this choice in the light of the latest finance law, which has resulted in a decrease in the ceiling on the agency's employment authorizations. What additional means will the CPRA have to fully carry out its new missions? To this simple but essential question, we have not received an answer. Madam rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State, could you provide us with a guarantee that the CPRA will be sufficiently equipped to carry out its new tasks? I will now look at the more general subject of financial sector regulation, at the risk of getting tired of you. Ten years ago, in September 2008, the U.S. business bank Lehman Brothers went bankrupt, which was the trigger of a crisis that we still feel the effects of. Could we be faced with such a financial deflagration again? Have we learned all the lessons? The Communist group responds in the negative to these questions, as amnesia seems to prevail. We will try to give you a booster shot. Let us say quite frankly: it is indeed a financial sector that is adrift, totally out of control and with suicide bomber practices, which has been the main responsible for the crisis in question. The public authorities then had to play firefighters, pouring out a "crazy money", if one can say, to avoid an even more serious systemic crisis, at the price of raising public debt. Just two years later, financial markets, with little consideration, turned against those who had saved them, namely the states, by causing the explosion of interest rates on their sovereign debt – in France, but also in Spain, Italy, Portugal and of course in Greece. It was at this point that an ideological pass-through took place: rather than putting finance in step, that is to say, in its right place, the peoples became the supposed leaders of the crisis, living above their means, spending too much, not working enough, enjoying supposed advantages now unjustified in the light of the economic situation. Austerity has thus become the cornerstone of European policies, with dramatic consequences. Between 2008 and 2016, inequality increased across the entire European continent. The risk of poverty increased by more than 4 percentage points in Spain and Italy. Greeks, Spaniards and Italians are now 6 million more threatened with social exclusion. In Athens, ladies and gentlemen, 43% of households say they do not have the means to pay for the heating of their homes. How can we not see in these developments part of the explanation of the ever-increasing fractures that cross the continent and undermine the European project? Relegated to second place behind supposedly superior economic and financial interests, people were punished for a crisis for which they were not responsible. The peoples have been forgotten; the Greek government was humiliated, because it had dared to defend another model. Recently, a European Commissioner has allowed himself to say that markets will teach Italians to vote well. This is the current political context. What about the financial situation? As we have said and repeated, public debt obsesses public policies, and feeds an obese financial sector. Of course, financial regulation has advanced: Europe and our country have made progress on a few issues – for example, the requirements regarding the level of banks' own funds, or the supervision or supervision of bonuses – but every time the public authorities have taken a step, finance has made two or even three: it always has a lead over the regulator. Thus the action of the European Central Bank – the ECB –, which has intervened massively on secondary markets in order to calm tensions on public debts, by pouring hundreds of billions of euros of liquidity, creating new speculative bubbles that threaten to explode sooner or later. The regulator intervened to set up new standards for the traditional financial sector, but finance continued to evolve, through shadow finance – which is known as shadow banking – which escapes any normative framework by hiding itself in the opacity of tax havens. Yet it represents – stand up – $45,000 billion, of which several tens of billions pose risks to global financial stability. This parallel finance is a real sword of Damocles. That is, in a few words, why we consider that the lessons learned from the events of 2008 have not been learned. On the contrary, we always suffer the order of debt: the ever-increasing financialization of our societies leads to the decline of the common good in the face of the interests of the markets. We must therefore organize ourselves to gradually resume our course. To this end, we propose a framework law aimed at establishing a genuine separation of banking activities: on the one hand, deposit-taking activities and on the other hand, business activities. The two positive effects we expect from this measure are the improvement of the financing of the real economy and the deflation of banks, which are currently overweight. We also propose to ban French banks from operating in tax havens. The citizens' right to look at banking practices must also be strengthened, as must the protection afforded to whistleblowers, down to the secrecy of the business you are defending. We also propose to support the development of actors with innovative practices that promote social and environmental progress, promoting other models of society, such as the cooperative or mutualist world. At the same time, we want to innovate in the financing of State action. Let's get rid of the financial markets. As long as deficits are noted, let us finance them by innovative means, directly soliciting the French, without resorting to banks as intermediaries. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the policies of tax gifts to the richest often have their share of responsibility in triggering financial crises. They fuel speculative bubbles and deepen social inequalities. It is therefore by taking the opposite of your tax policy that one of the lessons of the 2008 crisis can be learned. We will therefore abstain from the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u8	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u9	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as the saying goes, hell is paved with good intentions. This is reflected in the 400,000 standards defined by different laws, and in the 73 codes that govern our daily lives. All these standards are based on excellent intentions, but they have not always achieved their goal. They complicate the law in some cases, create distortions of competition and on-board effects, and sometimes prove ineffective or even inapplicable. Let us start, therefore, if we want to stop "fucking the French" as Georges Pompidou told Jacques Chirac, who presented him with a pile of decrees to sign, by not overtransposing the European directives. The circular of 26 July on the control of the flow of regulations draws our attention to this subject, and indicates that any measure that goes beyond the minimum requirements laid down in a directive is in principle prohibited. This principle is already in force in Italy, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Germany. It is, however, where this text was headed after its passage to the Senate. An amendment was adopted to make payment institutions, electronic money institutions and aggregators subject to an insurance obligation in respect of their activities relating to accounts other than payment accounts – these are therefore accounts outside the scope of the Directive. I would add that this insurance obligation is not accompanied by a strengthening of the security standards on these accounts. This provision would lead to distortions of competition, as it would not apply to specialized aggregators on accounts not covered by DSP 2. Furthermore, monitoring compliance with the insurance obligation could not benefit from the specific procedures for cooperation between national regulatory authorities. Finally, this provision would apparently not open up opportunities for commercial development to insurers, who are not in favour of it. The European level is therefore the appropriate level to deal with the issue. That is why our rapporteur – whom I welcome for the work she has done – tabled and has adopted an amendment abolishing this measure. We agree: there is a need for reflection with our European partners, because these standards cannot be decided unilaterally at national level. In fact, Madam Secretary of State, you announced in open session in the Senate the launch of a reflection mission to formulate proposals to be submitted to the European Commission. This mission may, where appropriate, recommend any relevant transitional measures to be adopted at national level. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the MODEM group]] So, gracefully, let us not introduce exceptions; Let us transpose this directive; Let us adapt to the common European standard, that is to say, the one that dictates the conditions under which competition can be properly exercised.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u10	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u11	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, on 8 February, we examined and voted at first reading the bill ratifying the order transposing the directive on payment services in the internal market, more commonly referred to as "DSP 2". The objectives of the Directive are simple: first, to harmonise the interpretations and applications of legislation in this field in the Member States; then extend the scope of the DSP 1 in order to fill the gaps in terms of standardisation and interoperability; Finally, to ensure that new types of payment services are covered by the regulatory framework. However, simplicity does not necessarily imply consensus: despite the clarity and brevity of the original bill, the failure of the Joint Joint Committee leads us to meet to discuss this text again. Without taking up the arguments put forward at first reading, on behalf of the MODEM and related groups, I will confine myself to putting forward the subject which constituted a stumbling block between our house and the Senate, and to explaining in a very simple way why we want to return to the original text. By inserting an Article 1 ter A, the Senate intended to extend the liability of payment service providers, in respect of their activity of initiation of payment and aggregation of accounts, to accounts other than payment accounts. It also required them to take out supplementary insurance for those accounts not covered by the Directive. Such a provision poses at least two difficulties. Firstly, it covers situations which are not provided for in the European Directive DSP 2, whereas the will of our majority for more than a year is not to overtranspose. To add to a law aimed at transposing a directive a device not provided for in this directive is to add a standard to the standard, that is to say to overtranspose it: we cannot satisfy it. Secondly, this insurance obligation would in fact distort competition, as it would not apply to unauthorised aggregators, i.e. those who would only provide access to expanded accounts. This would be the case even if this obligation were to be public policy and applicable to foreign suppliers in respect of their activities in France. In order to be effective against European institutions acting in the free provision of services, this provision must meet objectives of general interest within the meaning of European law, which is not the case in this case. The Supervisory and Resolution Authority, which is responsible for the approval and supervision of banking institutions, has itself indicated that it would not be in a position to enforce this obligation, which goes beyond what is provided for in the Directive. So, what's the point? Finally, the obligation to take out supplementary insurance gives a sense of security for access to consumer data, but this security is only illusory. In fact, there is no guarantee that the security of access to data is effectively enhanced. Of course, we share the Senate's desire to protect the consumer by allowing him, in the event of fraud, to be reimbursed by the third-party provider. However, we do not agree with the solution adopted by the Senate or with the method chosen to achieve it. In our view, an effective answer to this serious question requires more than half a measure voted in haste. That is why we agree with the rapporteur's well-informed opinion: it is only at European level, and after a thorough analysis, that effective solutions will be found.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u13	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u14	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering in a new reading the bill ratifying the order to transpose the directive of 23 November 2015 on payment services, known as "DSP 2". In today's world, data security concerns the daily lives of each and every one of us. The previous Directive, DSP 1, had marked the first major step towards the unification of the internal market in payment services by harmonising the rules applicable in the Member States. At the time, the objective was to coordinate fragmented national provisions, to ensure market access for new payment service providers, to set information requirements and to define the rights and obligations of payment service users and providers. It introduced a new feature: the single approval for all foreign payment service providers to the activity of receiving deposits or issuing electronic money. To this end, a new legal category has been created: payment institutions, thus ending the monopoly of banking institutions in this area. However, the sector's innovations have made it necessary, in just a few years, to renovate the body of European standards governing this sector. A perpetual challenge is needed, because in just a few years the global financial landscape has changed a lot. Under the impetus of actors offering services of a new type thanks to finance technologies – called Fintechs – banking practices have changed. This results in legal uncertainties regarding the protection of users' personal data and the liability regime of providers. In fact, at present, most payment initiation service providers, whose activity is to initiate a payment order at the user's request, directly access their customers' online bank accounts by making themselves known to them. They use the so-called unidentified direct access method – also known as unidentified web scraping. This situation causes numerous legal frailties that threaten consumers, particularly from the point of view of the liability regime. More specifically, consumer banking data is at risk. There is an urgent need to make them more secure, both technically and legally, as their interception by third parties would be extremely detrimental to consumers. According to a study by the Observatory for the Security of Means of Payment, more than 400 million euros were stolen as a result of the use of bank data in 2016, representing more than one million fraudulent transactions. The web scraping method has therefore extended the scope of action of people wishing to intercept user data as it does not submit them to any identification request. In this context, which is a matter of concern, no consumer protection regulations have been put in place. It is therefore necessary to establish a legal framework designed, on the one hand, to protect consumers by securing their personal data in order to avoid fraudulent use and, on the other hand, to limit the scope of these new services while ensuring and strengthening consumer rights. This will require new rules to address these regulatory gaps while ensuring greater legal clarity and consistent application of the legislative framework across the European Union. The DSP 2 Directive repeals DSP 1 and is in line with it since it adapts the European legal framework for payment services to developments in the sector and pursues the general objective of achieving the internal market. It shall lay down the rules governing access to the activity of payment services, the supervision of payment service providers and the technical arrangements applicable to payment transactions, as well as the rights and obligations of the parties. It also aims to promote the use of more secure and fairer electronic payment services, in particular by establishing rules between all third-party providers, such as PayPal, which, unlike banks, do not keep payment accounts. These suppliers will now be required to register and supervise themselves as a payment institution. They will therefore finally be subject to the same security rules as other payment service providers. Security of payments is also a central element of the Directive. The latter improves the security of all payment service providers by generalizing strong authentication for online transactions. Consumers will now be better protected. However, during the Joint Joint Committee, a guarantee problem was raised by the representatives of the majority in the Senate: in some situations, the user, often without being aware of it, would risk being solely responsible for fraud in accounts not covered by the directives, in particular on savings accounts – which now account for 80% of the aggregated accounts. The consumer would then not be able to obtain a refund either from his bank or from the third-party provider. The solution proposed in Article 1 ter A, introduced by the Senate, was certainly not perfect, but it had at least the merit of proposing an insurance obligation. Madam Secretary of State, I do not want us to be complicit by omission in allowing an area of lawlessness to remain. There is a real legal vacuum in this which puts the savings of the French at risk. The Government will soon have to assume its responsibilities; Otherwise, we run the risk of fraud and ruining people. We already have in our country eight start-ups offering payment services, and there are some leaders in this sector at European level. There is an increasing number of users and demand for such services, especially for younger generations, as they can manage their finances more directly and more easily by having access to more information without the need for systematic recourse to their banks. The new normative context aims to support these developments and to encourage new Fintech companies to continue to innovate ever more. However, some points which I believe are essential are not addressed in the directive. It is clear that data protection will remain insufficient and that its legal framework, although necessary, will be difficult to establish. As is often the case, the deadline for transposition of the Directive is long, even though thousands of people who use these payment services are exposed daily to the risk of fraud. I would point out, after others, that the directive was adopted by the European Parliament on 25 November 2015. More than two years later, are the rules it sets still in line with reality? On the other hand, in addition to payment services, many other areas could be better regulated: I am thinking in particular of electronic or virtual currencies, such as bitcoin, which are not mentioned in the directive. Does that mean that all these forms of private money can continue to thrive in general indifference? However, it is quite surprising to transpose a directive that aims – rightly – to secure transactions, without taking an interest in the new data that is virtual money. The UDI, Action and Independents Group is aware, Madam Secretary of State, of the need to avoid the pitfall of counter-productive overtransposition, but it is necessary, for the safety of our fellow citizens, to take an interest in each of the areas requiring regulation. With this directive only part of the system is regulated. The order introduces strict security requirements, tends to increase consumers' rights and prohibits the charging of supplements when they use these rights, within the very specific framework of the French payment services market. Therefore, beyond all the reservations I have just made and which Parliament will, I hope, follow in the evolution because it is a necessity, the UDI Group, and the independent Group, recognises that this is a text which is an indispensable step forward and will therefore vote for it. Having said that, we would like to remind the majority and the Government that the world is constantly changing and that there is a need to change the texts at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u15	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u16	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague Christine Pires Beaune reminded us during the first reading of the bill, DSP 2 is based on a double observation by the European Union: in recent years we have experienced an unprecedented development of innovative means of payment that has made DSP 1 obsolete – I think, for example, payment service providers such as PayPal and information service providers such as Linxo, who are most often in the Fintech category. This fact calls for the introduction of modernised regulation. In this context, Brussels considered that it was necessary to provide new protections for users' data and that, moreover, there were margins of progression in the area of limitation of overbilling in the case of payment transactions and limitation of bank charges in the case of fraudulent use of a means of payment. DSP 2 is therefore based on two legs: the innovative development of payment systems within a protective framework for consumer data and the limitation of invoicing and deductibles paid by consumers. With regard to the invoicing and franchising component, the New Left Group believes that the DSP 2 represents an undeniable step forward. This applies, for example, to the prohibition of overbilling, i.e. the application of surcharges in the case of payment by credit and debit card, both in a store and online, or to the reduction of the remaining deductible from EUR 150 to EUR 50 in the case of fraudulent payment by card before opposition. According to the European Commission, this directive will save Europe's citizens more than €550 million a year. On the innovation and regulation side, the New Left Group is in favour of a new regulatory framework taking into account the development of new payment services. However, in this area, our only compass is the protection of consumers and their data. Indeed, the obligation of banks to provide payment service providers and information service providers with access to their customers' data from the time they have given their consent requires effective means of control. Otherwise, there could be significant drifts, particularly in the area of bank fraud. It is therefore necessary to give the national supervisor, namely, in France, the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, the necessary resources. However, as a reminder, section 65 of the Finance Act for 2018 sets the CAPRA employment authorization limit at 1050 full-time equivalents worked while it was set at 1121 by section 58 of the Finance Act for 2017. As a result, the human resources of CPRA have been reduced by 7 per cent by the Government. In the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur had announced that the CPRA was committed to reallocating its resources to implement the directive. This response was not to reassure us and, since then, nothing has reassured us. Will the reallocation in question be sufficient to achieve the objectives? Is that to say that the CAPR has so far had resources that exceed its needs? In conclusion, I would like to point out that our group regrets the deletion of Rule 1 ter A in the Finance Committee on 27 June. The purpose of this article, which was inserted in the Senate, was to overtranspose directive DSP 2 in order to extend its scope to accounts other than payment accounts. If we agree with the majority that this issue should be dealt with as a matter of priority at European level, the honourable senator's initiative had the merit of strengthening consumer protection, even though the solution was not perfect. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] In any event, the New Left Group is in favour of the ratification of the August 2017 Order, which faithfully transposes the DSP 2. We will therefore vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u17	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u18	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the ratification of an order of 9 August 2017 transposing a European directive of November 2015 on payment services in the internal market. There are several positive points in the directive. First, it improves payment security and user data protection. Secondly, the competing players of the banks will be able to enter this competitive framework in a fairer way. This directive had been fiercely fought, it is recalled, by the European Banking Union, allegedly to defend the protection of users' data. These concerns were in fact unfounded and served just to mask the real reasons for their opposition, namely that such measures could only challenge their monopoly by enabling new actors to develop payment services that are now better regulated by law. These are positive developments for consumers and new payment services, which will be better equipped to compete with the monopoly of large banks. In addition, the protection of users' data is strengthened. Finally, the directive allows the market for new operators to be regulated, which until now has not been regulated at all. However, the La France insoumée group wishes to criticise several points of the text. First of all, at the first reading, the Government tabled an amendment to develop cashback, i.e. the withdrawal of cash from traders. This amendment was also passed by the Senate. Now – as we said at the time – we are opposed to this system. Indeed, we believe that it is not up to traders to substitute for banks by circulating cash. Rather, rural desertification and the withdrawal of daily services from rural areas should be combated rather than allowed for some form of alternative market. I would like to point out in this connection how often it is difficult for rural municipalities, for their mayors, to obtain even one bank distributor, given the large number of conditions required by the banks. From this point of view, the increasingly frequent abolition of post offices in rural areas obviously exacerbates the problem. In addition, it is up to the Banque de France to guarantee citizens' access to liquidity. Such a guarantee should also be mandatory. While we must therefore strengthen the resources and force the banks to reinvest in rural areas, we must not, on the other hand, let them dislodge the traders – who are often themselves opposed to cashback for security reasons – from providing liquidity to our fellow citizens. Secondly, the Joint Joint Committee failed because the Senate decided to go further than the directive by providing for a system of consumer protection in the event of fraud extended to accounts not covered by the directive, i.e. accounts other than payment accounts – in particular Book A. In concrete terms, the system envisaged allowed the consumer to obtain a refund from the third-party provider in the event of fraud by engaging payment service providers in liability for their activity of initiation of payment or aggregation of accounts. However, the majority The Republic on the move refused this point at the CMP and deleted the provision at the re-reading in the Finance Committee, stating that it did not want to "overtranspose the directive" and that this problem had to be addressed at European level. Our colleague from the New Left Group, Marie-Noëlle Battistel, has just raised the issue. Like her, we can only regret this choice, which postpones consumer protection, while the latter should, in the context of this bill, be our top priority. Moreover, due to the weakness of the means allocated to regulation, significant abuses could occur, particularly in the area of bank fraud. Indeed, in France, the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, the ACPR, will be responsible for monitoring these new operators. However, in the 2018 Finance Act – and we are going back, once again, to public spending restraint policies – the majority set the CPRA's employment ceiling at 1050 full-time equivalents, which corresponds to a 7% reduction in its workforce. Therefore, there is some question as to how the CPRA will be able to carry out this new monitoring mission. The problem had already been raised in committee and the rapporteur replied that the CPRA had committed itself to reallocating resources internally to deal with the new mission. In this case, Madam rapporteur, what will be the other missions currently carried out by the CPRA that will suffer from this reallocation, even though all of its tasks are important? I am sure you will answer earlier on this point. If new missions are given to CPRA, we need to increase our human resources, not reduce them. Finally, this debate must also be an opportunity to recall that the means of payment, in particular online, are not accessible to all citizens. Very often, in the vicinity of the city centres, we forget that many of our fellow citizens continue to experience what can be called the digital divide. Thus, it would have been useful to provide for the right of all citizens below the poverty line to open a free bank account with a payment card: this would also have allowed us to affirm that the banking service is a right for all citizens, not something that is allocated to them depending on where they live or their social condition. For all these reasons, this bill, which I initially said had several positive points, is also, unfortunately, marked by many imperfections and limitations, despite, as we have seen, the provisions proposed by the Senate. This is, unfortunately, a great missed opportunity. We will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u19	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u20	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 February 2018, our Assembly adopted at first reading the bill ratifying the Order transposing the 2015 directive on payment services in the internal market. Following the passage on March 22, 2018 by the Senate of an amended version of this bill, a joint joint committee was convened on April 19 to try to converge towards a common text, unfortunately without success. Let us remember, however, that our two assemblies agreed on most of this text, albeit extremely technical but crucial for a whole part of the new digital economy. I would also like to commend once again the excellent work of the two rapporteurs, Nadia Hai and Alberic de Montgolfier, who have made a real effort of clearing up and pedagogy. The essential thing is already acquired: the transposition of the directive updates the measures resulting from the 2007 directive, the DSP 1. The new Directive allows new providers to secure their business thanks to a new common legal framework: this is the case for account information service providers as well as payment initiation service providers. If the essence is thus acquired, an initiative of the Senate is still debated: the introduction of Article 1 ter A, which introduced a mechanism to secure users of aggregators for accounts other than payment accounts only. The Directive deals only with payment accounts, i.e. current accounts. However, the services offered cover all savings accounts and products, including, for example, Booklet A and Life Insurance. Thus, for accounts not covered by the Directive, the bank would not be obliged, in the event of fraud, to compensate the user. The Senate did not wish to over-transpose the directive by extending it to all accounts and savings products, and we can only agree with this approach: I would remind the national representation as a whole that this is a line to which the Government and the majority have bound themselves, and which will continue to guide our action in future transpositions. Nevertheless, the solution proposed by the Senate, which is to subject the claimants to an insurance obligation allowing the user to obtain a refund in the event of fraud, seems to us, as it is, ineffective and, in some cases, even harmful. If, of course, we share the stated objective of consumer protection, we oppose the proposal as such for several reasons. First, it governs the activities of payment providers for accounts outside the scope of the Directive, which is nevertheless – and despite the remark I made at the moment – a form of overtransposition. Secondly, the CPRA will not have the capacity to enforce these obligations, as it has told us: to the extent that this provision goes beyond the directive, monitoring its compliance will not be able to rely on the mechanism for cooperation between regulatory authorities in the event of a breach of the rules. Finally, the insurance obligation is not accompanied by provisions that enhance the security of access to data, as is the case for payment accounts. However, it is not possible to construct a dissymmetric system in which an insurance obligation would be provided for certain products, without including the other provisions of DSP 2. Thus, the identified limit is real – it must be understood – but the measures to remedy it must be incorporated into European law, following an in-depth analysis of both the existing offers and the insurance mechanisms that could be attached to them. The European level is and must therefore remain the appropriate level of action to address the issue. That is why we oppose the Senate's proposal. The worst would be to ultimately create a sense of unwarranted real confidence in the consumer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u21	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u22	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the project implemented by the majority gives an unprecedented place to the construction of the European Union. It is true that we have to face countless challenges, but they deserve to be addressed, as the European project is an opportunity – for our economy of course, but not just. That is why I am a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Our action is inextricably linked to that of the European Union. Our common project must be ambitious and the European Union must seize every opportunity, particularly in the economic field. The internal market contains many of them: on a daily basis millions of Europeans travel, work, travel, study and shop in this area of freedom. In all these situations, they must be protected. A few weeks ago, we strengthened the protection of personal data. Today, with this bill we are looking at again, we are strengthening the protection of the French when they consume within the European Union. We have all seen this: in the last decade or so, payment services, used daily by more than 500 million European consumers, have evolved enormously as a result of technical innovations. As a result, new types of services have emerged and electronic and mobile payments are growing rapidly. The Directive on payment services in the internal market adapts the European legal framework to developments in the payment services sector, which allow payment or withdrawal of cash into an account and which also include bank levies, transfers or money transfer services. As I pointed out, services and practices are changing: it is therefore necessary to intervene to protect the French when they use them. That is our role as parliamentarians. Strengthening consumer protection is essential in order to secure them and create conditions of trust. Whenever it is possible to do so, and by being responsive to market advances, we must protect our citizens by adapting legislation to change: that is what we are doing today. In concrete terms, thanks to the directive – and the order transposing it – traders will now be able to provide cash to consumers, which was not sufficiently clear in the original wording. An amendment by the Government clarified this provision, which will benefit consumers, as it will allow them to carry out two operations simultaneously: shopping and cash withdrawal. This measure offers a partial response to the decrease in the number of distributors and banking agencies in some rural areas – an issue that I know of as a Tarn elected official. It will also benefit traders by granting them a new faculty that can promote their attractiveness. The order also strengthens the rights of payment service users, guaranteeing their right to information and reducing their liability in the event of payment made at their expense as a result of the loss or theft of their payment instrument: the limit of their liability will increase from 150 euros to 50 euros. Furthermore – and this is important – users will need to be informed without delay of major operational and security incidents – i.e. those affecting the operation of the institution or the security of the payment transaction – when the incident is likely to affect their financial interests. Payment service users will also need to be informed of existing complaint procedures, as well as out-of-court settlement procedures, in the event of a dispute. By being better informed, consumers will be better protected. This will enable them to improve both the readability of transactions and their purchasing power and to assert new rights. As you will have understood, the French will benefit from more protection when they consume, make purchases or carry out transactions within the European Union. In this they will be able to make the most of the internal market. At the same time, we are encouraging innovation in payment services – an innovation that, through this bill, will benefit consumers even more.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u23	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u24	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to recall the context in which our debates are held, the reasons for the failure of the CMP and, finally, the stakes of our vote. As far as the context is concerned, it is a matter of further harmonisation of the standards initiated in DSP 1, but also – and above all – of giving a legal framework to the activity of new players in financial digital. They are primarily providers of account information services, called information aggregators of the various financial institutions. These start-ups from Fintech are known: for example, they are managing my account, Budget A, Banking or Linxo. They have more than 4 million users, and market prospects appear very favourable, since half of the French now have accounts in several banks. They are then providers of payment initiation services – Paypal, for example – giving the assurance to the online trader that the payment has been initiated by the buyer: they have 2.5 million users. Giving a framework to the activity of these actors ensures the protection of the personal data of the customers of these services: these so-called sensitive personal data will, once the bill is passed, be better protected by the obligation for banks to set up secure interfaces. I recall that this protection is already provided by a European Union regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR – which has been applicable since May. On a political level, I would like to point out that this text is perfectly in line with the philosophy of the majority, since it aims to free innovation and competition by promoting the development in France of new technologies that meet new needs. It also aims to protect, by framing these new practices in order to protect the interests of our citizens and to ensure that these services will not lead to fraud. Finally, it aims to make France play an important role as one of the first countries to transpose the directive. I would like to return to the failure of the Joint Committee on 19 April. This failure is due to the adoption by the Senate of amendments whose intentions were commendable, but which were not operational. These amendments were intended to protect savings account fraud and to impose insurance obligations on payment originators and account aggregators. However, savings accounts were not covered by the Directive and it seemed wiser to focus initially on payment accounts in order to test the proper functioning and legal certainty of secure interfaces. On the other hand, insurance obligations did not provide real guarantees for consumers. The Government and our rapporteur – whose quality of work I welcome – have therefore proposed that the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms issue recommendations for good practice. I think this approach is the right one. Furthermore, if we had accepted these amendments, we would have clearly overtransposed the European standard and it did not seem desirable to embark on this. I would like to mention a few issues in this text. DSP 2 came into force on 13 January. It provides for strong authentication for online payments of more than EUR 30 and the obligation for banks to set up secure interfaces. This latter obligation will enter into force in September, following the adoption on first reading of an amendment by the Government advancing the date of entry into force, originally scheduled for September 2019. The ratification bill should therefore be adopted without delay; Otherwise, we could not keep the deadline. It is also necessary to remain vigilant with regard to new payment services. We know that if it's free, it's because you're the product. Therefore, account information service providers are likely to use the sale of customer data as a source of remuneration, which will allow them to offer a free service. Care must be taken to ensure that customers give their consent to the sale of their personal data. In addition, there are cybersecurity risks associated with new uses, such as banking transactions via connected objects. It will also have to be vigilant. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Despite these reservations, I believe that this ratification bill will meet the needs of a large number of users in a secure manner. I am surprised, moreover, that it can be presented as a missed opportunity to secure some of the transactions carried out by the payment services. On the contrary, this is an important step forward, and that is why I invite you to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u25	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u26	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this text, as well as all Members present this morning, for their comments and attention on subjects which, in a technical way, are in fact responding to important changes in consumption patterns and the use of technology in our country, as well as to the need to strike a fair balance between the opportunities offered by technological developments, in particular service innovations, and the safety to which consumers should benefit. These are subjects which are in the air of time and which overlap many of the issues which we have to discuss in this House. I would then like to respond to a number of points raised by the various speakers. With regard to the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, the CPRA, and its resources, I would like to point out that, as part of the 2018 budget, its resource ceiling has been increased from 190 million to 195 million euros. He was therefore given additional resources. We recognize that the CPRA must be able to respond to new missions and needs. Some of you, including Ms. Battistel and Mr. Coquerel, said that her employment ceiling had been lowered. This is a technical question. Since the actual level of employment of the CPRA was well below the employment ceiling provided for in the Finance Act, the latter had to be brought closer to the former. As a result, the cap was set at 1050 full-time equivalents, with the actual RPAC workforce at 1020 full-time equivalents. So there is a margin; This is not an additional constraint on the CPRA. In addition, CPRA's action is now taking place within the framework of the Single European Supervisory Mechanism. However, additional resources have been allocated at European level so that the CPRA can carry out a number of missions. To answer Mr Wulfranc's question on financial regulation, you will not have escaped the fact that there was a reaction from France after the crisis we experienced ten years ago. There was a very strong commitment from our country in the G20 to better manage the shadow banking. At the national level, a law on the separation and regulation of banking activities was adopted in 2013 to regulate and separate banks' own-account financing activities. The lessons of the crisis have therefore been drawn from these two themes. Many comments were made on the article introduced in the Senate and deleted by your commission. I agree with those who have spoken of overtransposition. This is a direction in which we do not wish to go. Article 1bA also raised a number of problems in terms of the attractiveness of our country and the distortion between the operators who settled in France and their competitors who would not have been subject to the insurance obligation. These are two extremely valid arguments. In addition, we have proposed a response that can solve the difficulties inherent in web scraping, which does not seem to be the case with compulsory insurance: the GDPR should be used, in particular the new obligations for data controllers, in particular the obligation to ensure proportionate security of the sensitive data they handle. Data controllers must take technical and organisational measures to this end, and the user has a right to compensation. These provisions of the GDPR will benefit clients of account aggregators, including when it comes to account data that is not covered by SPD 2 – this was the main problem. To make these provisions even more operational, we intend to seize the CNIL very soon, which can adopt compliance tools to clarify a set of practical recommendations and thus ensure better protection for customers. This very practical response, I believe, will provide a more robust framework for these activities. As regards the desirability of preparing, in conjunction with the European Commission, a response under European law, we have embarked on this. A mission of the General Inspectorate of Finance will be launched very soon with a view to initiating analyses and proposing solutions applicable at European level. We therefore continue to work on the subject of savings accounts and account aggregators. Mr Naegelen, virtual currencies are indeed outside the scope of the directive. However, this is a matter of concern to the Government. That is why we entrusted a mission on the subject to Jean-Pierre Landau, Honorary Deputy Governor of the Banque de France, who has just released his report. We are therefore also working on this topic. The Business Growth and Transformation Bill – known as the "CAPTE" – will include provisions on token emissions, which are one of its components.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u27	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u28	The Commission has deleted Article 1b(A).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u29	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u30	This is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u31	Is Amendment No 2 also coordinated, Mrs Hai?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u32	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u33	Fortunately, the president is here to represent the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u34	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u35	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u36	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u37	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the ratification of the multilateral convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits (No. 901, 1099, 1093).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u38	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u39	Mr President, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, today you are examining the multilateral convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, signed on 7 June 2017 by France and 67 other states and territories. This Convention is a major innovation in international taxation in that it will be necessary in relations between States without the need to amend existing bilateral tax treaties. This decisive turning point in international tax cooperation has been designed to save valuable time in the fight against tax evasion practices of companies seeking to reduce or even cancel their taxes by taking advantage of bilateral tax treaties. The ratification of the multilateral convention is therefore fully in line with the objectives of the President of the Republic and the Government in the fight against tax evasion. The Senate unanimously passed the ratification bill. I hope that this will be the same for your House, because France is and must remain a driving force in the fight against tax fraud. The BEPS Convention – Base Erosion and Profit Shifting – is one of the cornerstones of this new building, but not the only one. I am thinking in particular of the forthcoming inclusion of the European list of non-cooperative states and territories in our law, within the framework of the draft law on the fight against fraud, recently adopted in the Senate, the forthcoming transposition of the directive on the fight against tax evasion, known as the ATAD directive, the adoption by the European Council of the DAC 6 directive on financial intermediaries, or the very strong will of France to have adopted as soon as possible a directive aiming at the fair taxation of digital activities on European territory, by the evolution of the rules applicable to the determination of profits and, in the short term, by the introduction of a 3% tax on the turnover of digital giants. The multilateral convention will enable us to reflect in our relations with our partners the progress of the project, led by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, aimed at combating the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, known as the BEPS project. It will prevent or make it more difficult for certain companies to avoid taxes due in France by transferring their profits to lower or even zero tax states or territories. As you know, the BEPS project was launched by the G20, particularly on the initiative of France, in a context of increasing mobility of economic activities, at the summit in Los Cabos in 2012. It led the OECD to develop a set of measures structured around fifteen actions. These measures to combat tax fraud and evasion require some of them to amend bilateral tax treaties. Very innovative, this multilateral convention will update the 1100 tax treaties concluded between its signatories, without requiring the opening of lengthy bilateral negotiations. Such negotiations would have been an uncertain and potentially decades-long project for the States concerned. France, as a result of a very extensive treaty network, should have amended all of its 121 bilateral tax treaties. The main purpose of the provisions of the multilateral convention is to ensure that profits are taxed where the economic activities that give rise to them actually take place, in particular by combating the misuse of tax treaties and artificial circumvention of permanent establishment status, while improving the modalities for the settlement of disputes between States in the event of double taxation. To this end, the multilateral convention first contains mandatory measures for signatory States: minimum standards. They aim, on the one hand, to amend the preamble to the tax treaties and to insert an anti-abuse clause of general scope allowing the refusal of the benefit of the convention in the presence of arrangements whose main purpose is to obtain the tax advantages provided for in the bilateral conventions. On the other hand, these minimum standards are aimed at modernising the dispute settlement procedure, in order to resolve cases of double taxation. These are protective provisions for businesses and economic actors. For example, the general rule against abuse of the test of the main objects of the multilateral convention, which will be included in the tax treaties, will allow an advantage conferred by a tax treaty to be denied where one of the main objects of a montage or transaction is the granting of a benefit provided for by the convention. It is a question of countering transactions without economic reality, motivated by the benefit of a tax advantage. In addition, in order to involve as many States as possible, while ensuring broad application of certain anti-abuse provisions, the multilateral convention contains other optional stipulations, which the parties can use according to their treaty policy. The Government has chosen to retain the optional stipulations only in so far as they strengthen the mechanisms for combating tax evasion and fraud and correspond to the conventional practice of France. As a result, options that were not considered essential to remedy tax evasion or whose effects were too uncertain or legally insecure, particularly for our businesses, were not retained. Some optional provisions constitute real advances, such as those designed to prevent artificial circumvention of permanent establishment status, with the aim of not being subject to corporate tax in respect of an activity carried on in a given territory. Other provisions concern the inclusion of a clause on inter-State arbitration, the purpose of which is to resolve double taxation disputes within the framework of tax treaties. Thus, the multilateral convention will prevent so-called "commissioner" schemes, which consist of artificially locating commercial activities abroad in order not to pay corporate tax on an activity carried out in a given territory. Prior to the proposed amendments, the business of a French company acting on behalf of a foreign company and actually engaging that company in a commercial relationship with French customers was beyond the scope of the determination of permanent establishment in France, on the sole ground that the contracts were ultimately signed by the foreign company. As you know, such schemes are particularly common in the digital sector. France also considers with interest but caution the option of preventing companies from circumventing the definition of a permanent establishment in the event of contract splitting. Again, it is a matter of bringing law and economic reality closer together. However, it is important to ensure that the choice of this option does not place our companies in a situation of legal uncertainty regarding their operations abroad, particularly with regard to those States which have also chosen this option. The Government continued its reflection in this regard and concluded that it was preferable to make a reservation to article 14 at the time of the deposit of the multilateral instrument. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the choice of an option is irrevocable, unlike that of a reserve. Although we still lack evidence to demonstrate a proven risk to the building and public works sector, caution should be exercised, at least in a transitional manner. When the multilateral convention was signed, France communicated the list of 88 bilateral tax treaties it wished to cover. They correspond to States that have participated in the drafting of the multilateral convention and have concluded a tax convention with our country. As of 29 June, the date of the latest update by the OECD, 83 states and territories are signatories to the agreement. Among these parties, Austria, the Isle of Man, Jersey, New Zealand, Poland, the United Kingdom, Serbia, Slovenia and Sweden have already completed their ratification process. The Convention which is now before you for your approval entered into force on 1 July for the first five States that have ratified the text. For France, as for each other signatory State, the entry into force of the Convention shall take place on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three calendar months from the date of deposit of its instrument of ratification. The Government is fully aware of the innovative nature of this instrument in its relations with Parliament, but also with the tax administration with taxpayers. It therefore undertakes to inform Parliament every year of the effects of developments in the multilateral convention on its bilateral tax treaties in the annual report on the treaty network annexed to the draft finance law. Given the time frame for the entry into force and entry into force of the multilateral convention, this annual milestone appears to be perfectly appropriate. The administration will also ensure the readability of the bilateral tax treaties affected by the multilateral convention, through the publication of consolidated versions, which will ensure that users are properly informed. Our wish is to remove any ambiguity as to the interpretation to be made of the articulation of the multilateral convention with the bilateral tax treaties. If the consolidated versions of the bilateral tax treaties do not formally constitute an interpretation of the administration and cannot therefore be relied upon against it, the tax instructions commenting on the multilateral convention and the replies to the rescript requests will constitute a guarantee against the administration, which will ensure the full legal certainty of the economic operators. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the main observations of the multilateral convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, which is the subject of the bill now proposed for your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u40	What enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u41	Mr Benjamin Dirx, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u42	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, we have to take a decision on the draft law authorizing the ratification of the multilateral convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits. The main purpose of this multilateral convention, which is one of the components of the BEPS project, is to provide States with new means of responding to tax evasion and fraud practices of certain companies, which seek low or zero taxation, in particular by transferring their profits to territories with privileged taxation, where they are engaged in only limited or non-existent activities. The main thrust of this Convention is to bring together in a single text the approximately 1300 bilateral conventions of the 78 States already signatories. For France, which has signed 121 bilateral conventions, it would have taken 20 to 30 years to renegotiate each of them. Beyond the time saved in negotiations, the signatory countries show a unity against tax evasion companies, by redefining the rules of the game. Indeed, until now, the multiplicity of bilateral agreements, without a common basis, made it impossible to achieve unity of action. Today, without going back to these conventions, the multilateral tool offers the possibility of establishing a common basis, which defines minimum standards to be adopted by all States. There are three minimum standards. First, Article 6(1) of the Convention amends the preamble to all tax treaties to clarify that they must allow for the elimination of double taxation without creating possibilities for non-taxation through tax evasion or fraud. Secondly, the anti-abuse clause, defined in Article 7, is truly the cornerstone of this Convention. Its principle is simple: according to the so-called "principal object test" adopted by France, if one demonstrates that one of the main purposes of a transaction is to obtain a tax advantage, the benefit of the tax treaty can simply be refused. This is an extremely powerful response to the so-called "tax trafficking" practice. I will cite a simple example to illustrate the importance of the contribution of this article. An unscrupulous French company wishing to work in India could, at present, be forced to set up a company on Mauritius. Indeed, the agreement between Mauritius and India allows a company based in Mauritius to escape Indian tax. Moreover, the agreement between Mauritius and France provides that the company does not pay tax in France but in Mauritius, where it is found not to be taxed. We find ourselves in a situation of double non-taxation. The application of the BEPS Convention will put an end to this type of assembly. Third, Article 16 sets a minimum business-friendly standard as it improves dispute resolution processes – a very important issue – and thus eliminates double taxation. Beyond these minimum standards, France, which aspires to be at the forefront of the fight against tax evasion and fraud, has been virtuous in issuing few reservations. This approach is consistent with the priority given by the Government to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, and with the leading role that our country intends to play in this area. We fully share that will. Indeed, if we are to put in place a system favourable to the development of enterprises, we want to fight against those who cheat using the schemes already mentioned. It is with the aim of not penalising our companies while being the driving force behind the implementation of this convention that we, Madam Secretary of State, have expressed three wishes. First, in our report, we have raised a question about France's choice not to reserve Article 14, which aims to combat artificial fragmentation of contracts on the same site, with the sole aim of avoiding the qualification of "permanent establishment". Indeed, representatives of companies and experts heard in the preparation of this report are concerned that, in the context of the application of this anti-abuse clause, some foreign tax administrations may be tempted to appropriate an increased taxable basis. Some countries could thus, by an extensive interpretation of the provisions, unduly appropriate the taxable subject matter. I am pleased that the Government has heard this comment and has decided to adopt, like most European countries, including Germany, a more cautious position, with a reservation on this article. This position, although it does not prevent the Government – on the contrary – from lifting the reservation, nevertheless makes it possible not to remain a prisoner of a choice that would be irreversible because of the cliquet effect of the convention. We do believe that an in-depth analysis of this issue will serve to reassure businesses. This reservation should then be lifted if the risk is minor. Since the establishment of an ex post facto reserve is impossible, it seems to me that the Government is proposing a measure of wisdom. The second issue that we believe to be important, not to say overriding, is the information on this Convention and the reading of it. The Government has already committed itself to ensuring maximum legibility and legal certainty for operators by publishing consolidated versions of bilateral conventions and systematically responding to requests for rescripts. But even more so, in line with the reforms undertaken by the parliamentary majority, we want the tax administration to take a much more proactive approach, to develop an approach to accompany French companies present internationally, in particular SMEs and TPEs – small and medium-sized enterprises, and very small enterprises – in order to raise their awareness of the challenges of the convention, to assist them as upstream as possible and to inform them of the evolution of this convention living in the long term. Thirdly, since the Convention has the specificity of leaving considerable room for manoeuvre to the signatory States, the anticipation of its effects is not easy. Parliament's information is therefore essential. Accordingly, the Government has undertaken to inform Parliament annually, in the context of the debate on the Finance Act, on the conventional tax network. More generally, this convention must be seen as a basis, a foundation stone in the fight against tax evasion and fraud – of course, we will have to go even further tomorrow, laying the foundations for a new era for international taxation, which will now be much easier to change. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Thus, the issue of digital taxation can be addressed. Indeed, it should be borne in mind that, while the convention under consideration does not contain provisions specifically targeting digital taxation, Internet giants remain companies like others and will be subject to the clauses defined by these various articles. This is the case, in particular, in Article 7, with the anti-abuse clause, or in Article 12, which aims to combat commissionaire agreements and other strategies aimed at artificially avoiding permanent establishment status. However, the States in which these companies operate will have to sign the same clauses as we do if these provisions are to enter into force. A common position of a majority of the European States would therefore put pressure on the least receptive countries to this Convention and thus make it possible to optimise – we are very much in favour of this form of optimisation – the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u43	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u44	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have met this morning to authorize the ratification of the so-called 'BEPS' multilateral convention on the prevention of the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits abroad. This text, discussed two weeks ago by the Committee on Finance, received a unanimous favourable opinion on my report. It is an extremely important convention, dealing with tax optimisation and avoidance, which represent major political issues at the global level, since the financing of our schools, our hospitals, the ecological transition is at stake. This is certainly a technical subject, but we must not hide behind the technique to deal with it; We must grasp all the implications, particularly political ones, as we are doing this morning. We must continue to do so. This project was led by the G20 and continues to be – which I think is extremely important – under a mandate given by the OECD for several years. This is a historic step, a "legal accelerator", as you said, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Rapporteur, since the text will lead to the amendment of more than a thousand tax treaties worldwide. This legal accelerator will enrich these conventions with several tools that we now know are effective; In this respect, you have referred to the anti-abuse clause and the end of the commissionaire agreements. The text will also make it possible to combat hybrid arrangements, which bear witness to different interpretations of certain provisions. Thus, an enterprise may escape taxation because a transfer of profits is considered, in one State, as a loan and as such is deductible, while in another State it is treated as dividends, which are not taxable. This kind of scheme will now be avoided. The effectiveness of this instrument will depend on two factors. This is, on the one hand, the number of States that will ratify it. There were 68 at the time of the signing in Paris on 7 June 2017, then 78 at the time of the examination of the text in committee and finally 82, thanks to the signatures of Kazakhstan, the United Arab Emirates, Peru and Estonia, which took place last week. The absence of the United States was particularly noted but, without minimizing the problem, it must be put into perspective. Indeed, American giants used the European conventional network to establish their patterns; But most European states have signed this instrument, which makes it possible to respond in part to the problem – I will come back to that in conclusion. In general, there is some satisfaction with the choices made by States. For its part, France has notified 88 of the 120 conventions concluded with foreign courts, and 64 of them should be effectively amended, many of them with countries such as Hong Kong, Mauritius – I refer to the example you have taken, Mr rapporteur – Singapore, Ireland, Malta and Belgium. While some States have done the minimum service, retaining only the mandatory standards, which still contain the powerful anti-abuse clause provided for in article 7, others have been more voluntary. France has chosen the mechanisms that mark progress in the fight against tax evasion and which are consistent with its conventional practice. The non-value-added elements compared to the existing conventions were not retained. These choices are the manifestation of an opportune pragmatism, of which we must rejoice. France did not sin by naivety but remained consistent with its ambition. However, the Finance Committee is committed to deciding on a solid factual basis. In this regard, we regretted the lack of prior assessment of the economic impact of this instrument, which has not made it possible to reassure us of certain choices made by France, in particular with regard to Article 14. However, Madam Secretary of State, the Committee on Finance welcomes your choice of prudence. On these and other issues, it is therefore essential to ensure that Parliament is properly informed. You have also responded to this request, Madam Secretary of State, and we will ensure that we obtain the necessary information. Similarly, with regard to legal certainty, you have provided us with some answers. On the other hand, we will be careful to ensure that the rescripts are provided fairly quickly to companies – which is sometimes difficult for them to obtain on time – because the investments do not wait. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This Convention is extremely important, and I call for us to allow its ratification, but we must not stop there. The fight against tax optimisation and avoidance must be permanent. The work we are doing in the European Union is also extremely important, and France must not be left behind. So, yes, let's ratify, but let's keep fighting, fighting and imagining devices, evaluating them, improving them so that this scourge is no longer and we can live in an environment of tax justice for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u46	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u47	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing the transfer by certain companies of their profits to States with low or even non-existent taxation, to the detriment of populations and territories where wealth is actually produced. That's not acceptable. According to OECD estimates, it is between $100 billion and $240 billion that escapes corporate tax every year around the world, or 4 to 10% of theoretical revenues – a loss of profits that weighs heavily on public policies. Compared to France, these estimates represent 2.4 billion to 6 billion euros of annual corporate tax losses. These losses are all the more intolerable because the companies concerned are large users of public infrastructure. This type of behaviour undermines social citizenship, which we cannot accept.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u48	The convention under discussion is an important step forward in the fight against tax optimisation and avoidance. It will make it possible to close the loopholes contained in more than 1100 bilateral tax treaties defining taxation rules between States. The entry into force of this text, for which France has actively worked, is therefore good news. In the face of fiscal optimisation – and we can even talk about "hyperoptimization" for web giants – it was urgent for states to take over and act collectively. As our rapporteur, Benjamin Dirx, and the rapporteur for an opinion, Bénédicte Peyrol, pointed out in their excellent reports, France has made the choice of example in the fight against tax optimisation and avoidance, with very few reservations on the articles of this Convention. Benjamin Dirx expressed the wish to have an impact assessment on Article 14: this analysis will allow us to lift this precautionary reserve. The firm position of France and its ambitious example will put us in a position to convince more and more States to act against the abuse of certain companies, a task that we can only carry out collectively. This applies particularly to our European partners: speaking with one voice will make us more influential on the international stage. In the face of tax optimisation and avoidance, our vigilance must not weaken. Since the innovation capacity of companies is particularly high in this area, our mobilisation must remain complete. There is an urgent need for action within the European Union to put an end to the unfair tax competition that some states still face in the area of corporate tax. Similarly, we must redouble our efforts in the taxation of the digital economy, so that we can reach a consensus, first European and then global. There is only one response to tax optimisation and avoidance: the strong unity of states and the intransigent will of public authorities. The Government, Madam Secretary of State, will have to inform Parliament regularly and completely about the evolution of the scope of this Convention, the scope of which will change over time, following the signature of new States. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] As the Secretary-General of the OECD says, the challenge is to restore citizens' confidence in the fairness of tax systems. This is, of course, the main objective of this Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u49	In the general debate, Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u50	Madam Secretary of State, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, Google or Hello Google! Like most members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I am not a specialist on this very technical dossier, and I would like to congratulate the authors of the two reports, in which I have been immersed, although the medical studies and the few studies of law which I have followed help me little in economics. I asked Google: is it going to look good in Paris on Sunday? Can you take me to Versailles Congress, which is now held every year?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u51	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u52	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u53	Google, do you pay taxes in France? Google does not answer this question, while it is inexhaustible if I ask it ideas for the tax optimization of Christian Hutin. That is the heart of the problem, which concerns not only digital companies, as you said, Mr rapporteur, but also these. What a beautiful name that of tax optimisation! The communicator, Smythe, would not have criticized him. It's a beautiful expression, but what it covers is anything but beautiful. In mathematics, optimization is modeling designed to find the best point between minimum and maximum. The goal of tax optimisation is to obtain maximum profits through a minimum tax rate, which is extremely boring. You also cite in your report the terrible term "tax traffic", which means that multinationals make their markets in the midst of international conventions. Tax challandage: what an inventiveness! Under the old world, during my first term in the National Assembly, I chaired a study group on ethics and doping in sport, created after the scandals of the Tour de France. Our group will obviously vote in favour of this text, which represents undeniable progress. We are well aware, Madam President, that conventions can drag on for years, and never in the history of economic diplomacy have we gone so fast and brought together so many countries. However, I fear that the doped still has a little time in advance. For the next Tour de France, we see that organizations are strong enough to allow a runner, who should probably not have the right to do so, to align at the beginning. This text represents great progress, but the power of multinationals can give them time to advance. As Marielle de Sarnez said at the moment, the Council of State stated that it was essential for Parliament to be systematically informed of the amendments to the text, which were very numerous, as a result of total multilateralism and the number of countries concerned. The terms of our amendments are found in the amendments to the text; If Parliament could not follow them, it would be to vote a law without being able to consider the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u54	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u55	This would be an exceptional situation, and this point seems essential to me. Restrictions are another area of concern. France is clearly virtuous, as you have pointed out, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr rapporteur and rapporteur for an opinion, but it does not exempt her from thinking about the situation of countries which are far less so, I think, without being able to be mistaken, in Ireland. The absence of some countries, particularly the United States, is boring. Last week, the Foreign Affairs Committee received Jacques Attali, who explained to us that the G7 or even the G20 no longer existed, as the US authorities did not care. We are in another world, different from that in which countries can meet under essential circumstances. Madam Secretary of State, the Government will have to pay attention to this matter. Another cause for concern in this House is that arbitration always scares us. The recent experience with Bernard Tapie is not so brilliant that attention should be paid. The legislator, or even the State, has no control over arbitration. Mr rapporteur, you have referred to the artificial fragmentation of contracts, which reminds me of a sausage, like the one used for public procurement. Anyone who has been mayors or who knows the functioning of a town hall knows that a market can be saucissoned. This fragmentation is worrying. As Voltaire said – even if this is no longer true today – "Prussia is not a country that has an army, it is an army that has a country". Replace "armed" with "multinational", and the finding is the same. Multinationals are so powerful that they have become the state. Last week, in committee, we discussed the problem of ships' flags, this subject being in the news this morning, since the MSC shipping company decided not to go through the port of Bordeaux. It is quite possible for Amazon to buy back all the fleets: if this company acquired CMA CGM, Maersk and MSC, it would have terrible power. Shipowners have powerfully used pavilions to practice tax optimisation since the 1960s. This gives us reason to reflect on the real and extremely interesting progress of this fast and unique multilateral convention at this level, I believe, in the history of world economic diplomacy. In the substantive report, it is stated that conventions dating back almost a hundred years are still in force; When you see the digital, you understand that you're a little late! [[Applause on the benches of the NG, MODEM and GDR groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] "Trade is a perpetual and peaceful war of spirit among all nations," said Colbert. A war, yes, but peace of mind, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u56	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u57	"In order to combat fraud, the tax authorities are playing infinity the scene where the husband of La Dame de Shanghai pursues his wife in the ice cream palace designed by Orson Welles. Every time he thinks he'll shoot him down with a gunshot, it's a maze mirror that collapses; Lovers run away by a back door. The SwissLeaks case will probably not escape this scenario. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this metaphor, borrowed from academic Ibrahim Warde, sums up perfectly the current glamour in the fight against tax evasion. Business and scandals are similar, from SwissLeaks to Panama Papers, including UBS, HSBC and the LuxLeaks. We are witnessing a dramatic increase in the number of cases involving businesses and wealthy people, revealed by the only courage of whistleblowers and journalists whose work and citizen contribution are now threatened by the draft law on business secrecy. This is a new contradiction of this Government and this majority, which ratifies with one hand a convention fighting fiscal impunity and gags with the other those who really fight against this scourge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u58	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u59	Today, fraud takes a multiplicity of forms. The complex mechanisms of tax avoidance and optimisation used by multinationals are a challenge for national administrations, which must detangle and decipher tentacular montages, in a particularly constrained financial context. The number of staff in the Directorate-General for Public Finance has decreased significantly: since 2010, nearly 3100 jobs have been abolished, while fraud has continued to become more complex and diversified. Agents no longer have the means to detect and combat tax fraud and, with your obsession with the golden rule, this movement is likely to grow. The ratification of the multilateral convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits must address the problem of tax impunity of transnational enterprises. It aims to combat tax planning strategies that exploit loopholes and differences between tax and international rules with a view to artificially transferring profits to countries or territories where the company has no real activity but where they are taxed poorly, as defined by the OECD. Companies are globalizing, but taxation remains national. The losses attributable to this phenomenon are considerable: they are estimated at between EUR 100 billion and EUR 240 billion per year. The purpose of this agreement is therefore to tax profits where they are made. Ratification of this Convention is a first step, small, but welcome. Nevertheless, we have to say frankly: it will absolutely not allow us to combat the phenomenon in depth. We support the objectives of this plan. However, I will have strong reservations on some specific points. First of all, why not organise the fight against fiscal impunity at UN level – the United Nations – in the form of a global framework agreement, rather than that of the G20 and the OECD? All countries must get involved, which is not always the case with this convention, which the United States and some tax havens will not ratify. Moreover, it is similar to an à la carte menu, since each country can select the actions of the plan it enters into the bilateral agreements to which it is a signatory. The application of the Convention is therefore extremely flexible. In other words, for the agreement to apply, countries will have to check the same boxes. I will take a specific example, that of the concept of permanent establishment, i.e. the address of the company. It is the absence of a permanent establishment that allows the GAFAs, the digital giants, to escape tax in the countries where they are present. Ireland, which has chosen not to apply the Convention's action on this point, will be exempted from the provisions on this subject. As a result, GAFAs will be able to pursue their tax evasion business on a large scale. Ireland's ratification of the Convention will not change the taxation of digital giants, installed in the country to escape the French tax. Especially since the definition of the scope of work excludes the question of the tax regime applicable to the digital sector, which I regret. The contribution of the digital economy to taxation is addressed only through a report provided for in Action 1. This is one of the most important points of the convention, but it is only one of the blind spots. Moreover, the implementation of the text was based on the voluntary nature of the signatory States, which posed an obvious problem of asymmetry. In reality, the convention does not tackle the main problem, namely the race at least so-called fiscal between the states of the world. The LuxLeak scandal, which highlighted the facilities granted by Luxembourg to certain multinationals, clearly did not change attitudes. However, the number of tax rescripts – these secret tax agreements between tax authorities and businesses – increased by 64% in 2016, two years after the case. Moreover, our country is not left behind: by lowering corporate taxes from 33.3 to 25 per cent by 2022, this government is directly inspired by the practice of tax havens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u60	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are not a tax haven!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u61	The simplest would be to stop the double game, put an end to the tax impunity of companies, remove Bercy's lock and put in place a blacklist of tax havens worthy of this name, in short, to act very concretely and very firmly! The first victims of tax evasion, ladies and gentlemen, are the citizens. Every year, it costs around EUR 1000 billion in tax losses on a European scale, of which EUR 60 billion to EUR 80 billion for France. It is so much money that cannot be invested in national education, the public hospital and more generally our public services and our common goods. This is the meaning of the ATTAC initiative that our colleague Ugo Bernalicis took part in last week: the association has set up a hospital in an Apple store in order to denounce the tax evasion that the company is engaged in, which must – be well held – 2.7 billion euros in taxes to France! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So yes: there is an urgent need to develop an ambitious policy to combat corporate tax impunity. Fiscal harmonisation remains the safest guarantee against tax evasion and competition from States. This Convention, if committed in a fair and good direction, is like a drop of water in the fight against fiscal impunity. That is why we will abstain from the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u62	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u63	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, if the current trend continues, the average tax rate for companies worldwide could reach 0 % by 2052. This is the conclusion of the report published at the end of 2017 by the EURODAD network – European Network on Debt and Development. This trend is at least the so-called tax race in which the major developed countries – including France – are taking part, and I recall that it has decided to reduce the corporate tax rate to 25 per cent, in the name of international competitiveness. This is an element of reflection that makes it possible to set the scene and to address the real substantive questions that are posed to us today: in the face of the competition of all against all, which tends to impoverish societies, how can we ensure that States and territories cooperate more in tax matters? How can we create common ground, pacify and put an end to this terrible race at least the so-called tax? How can we ensure that every actor, both citizens and businesses, contributes fairly to the financing of public action, i.e. the needs of public authorities and their investments, which, moreover, will be necessary for the economy, as well as public services such as school and health, which are no less so? I remember that a famous Japanese car-building company, when it was considering moving to Europe – it finally did so on the Valenciennes side – had chosen a multitude of criteria, more than 120, in order to choose a favorable territory for their staff, including training capacities, university capacity, capacity in public hospitals or the average waiting time for emergencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u64	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u65	It considered that it would be attractive if the territory were to be so, which implied that the level of public services would allow for a comfortable reception of the company's staff. It makes sense from the point of view of the economy, but it implies that someone pays taxes on the wealth produced. That is the meaning of taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u66	You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u67	It is clear that international tax cooperation is still very much in the field of the concept, and the current situation is a reminder of this. What was one of Donald Trump's first decisions when he came to power in the United States? Implement an unprecedented tax reform that will result in tax cuts of $1,450 billion over 10 years, i.e. 0.7% of U.S. GDP, as well as a quasi-tax amnesty for multinationals repatriating profits from abroad. Tax competition is therefore one of the ramifications of the economic war of all against all, which leads us to ruin. Another striking sign is the tax havens, the black holes in the economy and the den of dirty money – that of drugs, corruption, the illicit arms trade and the trafficking of human beings. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as there are states or territories that establish fiscal opacity in principle, as long as the international community allows them to flourish, tax cooperation will remain a chimera. That is why the Communist MEPs have proposed that France should establish a genuine blacklist of tax havens, in line with international fiscal reality and not merely reflecting diplomatic considerations or arrangements. There is indeed a need to be offensive against these territories and those States which are notoriously harmful to taxation, if they act outside any cooperative framework. Not without humour, criminologist Alain Bauer said: "Tax havens don't have armies: what are we waiting for? Far from me the idea of advocating such a radical solution, any pacifist I am.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u68	Although...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u69	[[Smile]] Everyone's taking on what they're saying! However, it is urgent to take strong measures, both financially and diplomatically, while at the same time being very vigilant. Let us aim to target those who profit from tax havens – companies, multinationals, tax cheaters – and not local people, who often pay a heavy price for these pirate tax practices. On the financial side, we could further penalise or even prohibit financial flows through these territories. Let us also ban French banks from opening subsidiaries there! Finally, let us demand the progressive establishment of a global register of asset holders! Transparency is a weapon of formidable efficiency to replace – finally! – democracy and people in their rightful place. In terms of international relations, our diplomacy must be fully aware that it sometimes deals with States or territories whose fiscal practices cause us serious harm. It must act independently, in accordance with the best interests of the nation – I insist on the expression, because it has often been forgotten – and cannot be subject to arrangements that could harm it. Almost ten years after the explosion of the financial crisis, it must be noted that things have changed, under pressure from public opinion. While employees, the precarious, the unemployed, the retired and the young, in France, in Europe and around the world, have had to pay the high price of a crisis for which they are not responsible, it has become unbearable that some continue to escape tax with impunity. In this context, the G20 has given the OECD, a club of major liberal economies, the mandate to act against the erosion of tax bases, i.e. to combat tax evasion. The OECD has therefore unveiled the famous BEPS plan, composed of fifteen major actions, which should partly be ratified today. The tool we are proposing to endorse is entitled "Multilateral convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits". Behind this abscons title are quite fundamental issues. This multilateral tool aims to clean up bilateral tax treaties from their most harmful provisions. Bilateral tax treaties – we know them well in the Committee on Foreign Affairs – are, let us recall, agreements between states with a view to avoiding tax failures, in particular the double taxation of companies or individuals. They are problematic in more than one way. First, they reflect the state of diplomatic relations. The power of one side can have deplorable consequences for the other. For example, some States use this tool to put pressure on others so that their national economic actors benefit from special tax advantages: taxation on reduced or no profits, and more generally taxation on a minimum in exchange for hypothetical investments. They ultimately tend to make some states mini-taxes, occupying microniche, small economic sectors, always to the detriment of local populations. At this small game, of course, developing countries are the big losers. Let us say this: they are the great victims of tax evasion and evasion. As the International Monetary Fund recently pointed out, the impact of tax evasion on these countries is 30 per cent higher than that of OECD member countries, and bilateral tax treaties have something to do with it. It should also be noted that these can be used as a cascade for non-taxation purposes. This practice, called treaty shopping, is implemented by multinationals that have become experts in tax optimization. The most emblematic case – mentioned earlier by the rapporteur – is Mauritius, which has become a particularly attractive platform for investing in India by paying the lowest possible tax. Thus, through tax treaties, a French person investing in India through Mauritius will not pay any taxes. Had he invested directly in India from France, he would have been subject to tax under the Franco-Indian tax treaty. This is a concrete example of the drifts caused by bilateral tax treaties, the provisions of which sometimes have very concrete macroeconomic consequences. Thus, the bilateral convention France-Qatar – it is not forbidden to mention it – makes our country a tax haven for Qataris, the latter benefiting from tax arrangements in the art and real estate sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u70	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u71	You understand how, ladies and gentlemen, the real estate market in Paris bears witness to the most perverse effects of these deeply shocking provisions. As the media once again pointed out this morning, Paris presents the highest real estate price in France. The challenge of bilateral tax treaties, at least their grooming, was therefore urgent. On this point, the multilateral tool proposed here is of great value. That is why the Communist Group will vote for the ratification of this multilateral convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u73	However, let us be careful of any beat optimism! Only 78 jurisdictions are parties to this multilateral convention. Of course, that makes a lot of people, but many States remain out of the way. This is the case again, in particular, of the United States – yours, yours – but also of Brazil. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the scheme, it will therefore have to be possible to extend its application. Another limitation is the complexity and flexibility of the system. The way in which the Convention is applied is very complex, as the report shows. Furthermore, it leaves States a great deal of freedom to apply the tool. The mechanism of reservations and options could eventually empty the multilateral convention of its substance. But let's trust it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u75	National representation will have to exercise vigilance and supervision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u76	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u77	That is our role as a Member of Parliament: to ensure that this is done and to monitor the implementation of such multilateral conventions. I have no doubt that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will be vigilant in this regard. [[Smile]] Finally, as my colleague and nevertheless fellow Member pointed out, or the other way around, the issue of GAFAM taxation – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft – remains clear. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and NG groups]] Some will say that this tool is a giant step. For the GDR Group, this will be a small step, but one that goes in the right direction. In the fight against tax evasion, much has been done in recent years. But let us be aware of this: much remains to be done, and even the essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u79	Mr Denis Masséglia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u80	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 600 billion: this is the estimated share of profits made by multinational companies that would be artificially relocated each year to offshore centres, i.e. 40% of their profits; This amount is also Argentina's national wealth, the twentieth world GDP. These 600 billion euros are being subtracted from the tax administrations of developed or emerging countries to be repatriated to more advantageous or sometimes near zero tax countries. In 2016, Airbnb paid €92944 in taxes in France, its second largest global market, for a turnover of €130 million; not declaring a permanent establishment in our country allowed it, legally, to declare only 16,6373 euros of profits in our territory. Apple, whose estimated turnover in France is close to €5.8 billion per year, reports only 618 million, and 39.8 million profits; In 2015, it paid only €12.9 million in corporate taxes, when its global turnover was estimated at €215.6 billion, for a net profit of €45.69 billion. In the most legal way, Google only pays in taxes in Europe between 0.36 and 0.82% of its revenues, and Facebook less than 0.1%; the loss of profits for only these two companies is estimated at 5.4 billion euros in Europe for the period 2013-2015, of which 741 million euros for France. If we consider these multinational digital companies, for France, the tax damage amounted to €2.5 billion in 2013 and is now approaching €4 billion per year. To those who recently wondered about the financing of our armies, this amount represents about the cost of a carrier aircraft; It would also make it possible to pay more than 120,000 teachers in schools each year. This situation is no longer acceptable, and the text before us this morning is the first step in the fight against fiscal imbalances. The President of the Republic and the Minister of Economy and Finance, Mr Bruno Le Maire, are advocating with our European partners for a proactive policy of taxation on a European scale. At the same time, the aim of this convention is to combat first the transfer of profits in more taxed countries, where these companies have a large turnover, to more welcoming countries, to the markets are much smaller. It may take a long time to obtain and then put in place a Europe agreement; It is therefore necessary to remove this tax distortion now fully legal, which is practiced both internationally and within the European Union. I would like to point out that the European Union has ordered Apple to pay back nearly EUR 13 billion of tax arrears to the Republic of Ireland, and that this country is challenging this judgment on appeal. We create conditions for our own weakness. Ratification of the Convention should allow us to impose profits where economic activity actually takes place and to limit tax treaties allowing such practices. Finally, it will clarify the definition of a "permanent establishment" so as not to see the situations that I explained to you at the beginning of my remarks. In practical terms, the agreement tends to better trace transfers of profits from one subsidiary to another within the same undertaking. The aim is to identify flows in order to better visualize financial transfers in order to put in place, tomorrow, new harmonised tools at European level. Beyond the principle of tax justice for our small and medium-sized enterprises, which are taxed until last year at 33% in France, whereas the average taxation in Europe is 23%, we must act quickly to preserve our social model, which can only work if everyone pays what they owe in proportion to their capacities in order to finance public policies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Colleagues, we have been fighting for a year for work to pay, for investment to resume, for growth to return, for our companies to move forward and to re-create employment and activity. They must be able to play on equal terms with major international companies; Otherwise, all our efforts could be nullified.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u82	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u83	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the convention to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits must improve the coherence of the tax rules. There has already been much talk of multinational companies using the differences between tax systems to pay less taxes, although legally but artificially and above all, dare the word, immortally. We must recall the history of this agreement, which is based on an observation. It took time for the OECD to observe the mechanisms used and bring together experts; Only then was the instrument drafted. It is therefore the result of long years of hard work that we are looking at today, and that is why we must also trust; It is first and foremost the result of a work of observing mechanisms, which is important. It was in 2014 that the OECD submitted its first report on the development of a multilateral instrument. I will allow myself to respond to our colleague who has advocated for a systematic United Nations passage that we now have a single multilateral tool to replace multiple bilateral agreements. We must remain vigilant about them: bilateral conventions are very useful – especially for the French in my constituency – but a multilateral tool is needed to frame them. We must be able to apply common rules without going through the revocation and rewriting of the more than 1,000 existing bilateral agreements. There was talk of a small step, a drop of water. Allow the engineer that I am to speak rather of cliquet, the notion of mechanics: if what is important in this agreement is the effect of lift-loading, the fact that we will not go back; whether we judge the movement small or large, by engaging the movement, we are moving in the right direction and we will not be able to go back. In general, it is therefore a question of combating the erosion of tax bases and the transfer of profits. The importance of promoting flexible action has not yet been much discussed. Although I enjoyed the metaphor of the labyrinth of mirrors, there are no other means: flexibility, that is, common sense. It is necessary to return to the spirit of the laws to fight against those who hire armies of lawyers in order to adhere to the letter of the laws. Finally, this agreement makes it possible to tell a company claiming to be producing Jersey bananas that it is clearly installed on this island only to exploit a loophole in legislation, not to produce bananas. I would also like to stress one of the pillars of this agreement, which has been little mentioned by previous speakers: transparency. This is one of the reasons why I am very reserved on the idea of waiting for the arrival of the general government of the planet at the United Nations that some call for their wishes: the first effort must be to stop playing hide-and-seek to return to negotiation or even fraternity; It's possible, it's the right direction, even with the biggest companies. This agreement is therefore flexible. I think it is wise for states to be able to define a variable level of membership, depending on what they want to protect against a particular partner. France, as I recall, is one of the countries that has excluded the fewest clauses and has chosen the most binding menu. This convention is obviously a roadmap that sets out priorities for the problems to be addressed. Many tax systems already provided for standards but without homogeneity; A large-scale evolution is finally taking place. We need a timing: after a long process, which leads to serious proposals, the convention has already entered into force in eighty-two states. Our country is committed to ratifying it as soon as possible; France's involvement in this battle is a strong gesture in the fight against tax fraud. Sometimes we've been called rich, making laws for the rich. But by signing this convention, we are responding to an international problem, and we are moving towards a fairer international system. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] I have sometimes defended the idea, in my personal capacity, of a tax education, which would be a particular branch of moral and civic education, a question raised earlier by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. You don't play with taxes without putting democracy in jeopardy. Our movement has always been involved in defending consent to tax, an instrument of the general interest, especially with regard to large companies. It is therefore logical that the MODEM Group will vote in favour of this text and call on the other groups to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u84	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u85	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the exacerbated tax competition between states, the heterogeneity of tax systems and the failure of governments to correct the flaws of existing bilateral agreements have been fertile ground for the proliferation of aggressive tax practices, whether by states, companies or individuals. This finding and the revelation of large-scale tax scandals have legitimately given the image of an international tax system that is structurally failing and thus largely perfectable. For this reason, international leaders have tried to outline the contours of a major reform in order to effectively combat tax-crossing routes, whether they are fraud, escape or optimisation. Among the many aggressive practices used by private actors, tax barges are the focus of our attention here. This abusive practice allows international groups to play on bilateral tax treaties in order to escape tax or be subject to a more favourable rate, using complex financial arrangements to transfer their profits from one country to another, in order to circumvent the tax. Let us not combine here: when we speak of companies, we must not confuse those profitors, who use their money to avoid paying what they owe to the country that hosts them, with the majority of French companies, who play the game, and which our country honors themselves to welcome. According to the OECD, the losses associated with these practices for state public finances range from $100 billion to $240 billion. In a context of public deficit for the majority of states, including ours, and although these figures vary greatly according to the sources, it seems important to legislate to stop this hemorrhage. This is the objective of the BEPS project. This ambition was born in 2012, when the G20 mandated the OECD to change the rules of international taxation with the aim of realigning the location of corporate profits with that of their business. This strategy has the merit of being comprehensive and involving as many parties as possible in order to promote the inclusion of approaches and to prohibit exclusivity. While the absence of the United States at the time of the signing of the convention can of course be deplored, it is the result of a decision taken under the Obama administration which must in no way call into question the scope of the agreement, which is necessary both in substance and in form. On the substance, first of all, the multilateral instrument that this bill seeks to ratify allows the BEPS recommendations to be translated into positive law in four areas: the fight against tax trafficking, the regulation of hybrid products, the improvement of dispute settlement procedures and the definition of the concept of permanent establishment. I will stress two particularly important points: the fight against tax trafficking and the definition of the concept of permanent establishment. Questioning is legitimate: from when does an enterprise that carries on business in a given territory become taxable without being incorporated into that territory? The revision of the definition of this concept is therefore central to the fight against tax trafficking. This reform should include, in particular, developments in our economy, which, industrially, has become digital, intangible and difficult to locate. It should be recalled that States parties are required to apply minimum standards, but also non-minimum standards that may be subject to reservations by signatory States. This procedure ensures flexibility and thus the accession of as many States as possible. The whole issue of the text lies precisely in these reserve powers. Compared to its European neighbours, France has made very few reservations about the articles, particularly those relating to the definition of permanent establishments, preferring a broader concept of the multilateral convention. On this subject, it is important not to be too naive or too suspicious, for France is committed to its credibility here. Thus, while France has confidence in the process it has launched itself, it must nevertheless remove any risk of harmful asymmetry, under the penalty of imposing significant foreign taxation on its industrial flagships without, however, imposing equivalent taxes on foreign companies imposed on its territory. It is a sort of dilemma of the tax prisoner, with serious repercussions, that we must tackle with pragmatism and prudence. Conversely, being timid and timid could blur the message that our country originally wanted to send, particularly to its European neighbours. We must therefore be firm and, in particular, show French companies, which, I repeat, contribute to the wealth of our country, that they are not forgotten and that we support them. Moreover, at European level, ratification of the Convention takes place in a context in which the European Commission has decided to relaunch, not without difficulty, the draft consolidated common corporate tax base. Not without difficulty because some States unfortunately equate taxation with an essential element of their competition. The BEPS project has therefore found a concrete translation into European law and can be similar to a tax test run at Community level, as well as to the first stage of a commitment to convergence. In many respects, these first steps therefore appear to be coherent and move towards convergence of social and tax models within the Community framework. The adoption of this Convention must therefore also be considered in its European dimension, and our European partners must be guaranteed our consistency and reliability on this matter which is extremely important for the continuation of our common project. On the form, we can welcome the development of a bold and innovative procedure. This is an unprecedented approach in tax matters, a legal accelerator that will allow the simultaneous and coordinated modification of all bilateral tax treaties signed by France with its partners. This ingenious system, conceived by an ad hoc group in which French representatives took part, represents a major innovation in the field of international taxation, in the sense that it will be necessary in relations between States and will save valuable time by avoiding the possible reopening of tedious tax yards with uncertain results. On the other hand, France has a safeguard: it may choose not to apply this mechanism to States which have made reservations to a number of provisions of the BEPS Convention. This is the case in Ireland in particular with regard to the definition of permanent establishment. France therefore has every interest in maintaining a clear position in order to encourage the alignment of other countries party to this Convention. In the light of these many elements and on the basis of these observations, our group calls for the ratification of the multilateral instrument proposed by the OECD. Used to preserve our national interests, this tool will help combat tax avoidance and consolidate the international tax system while providing a credible basis on which the European Union can build to pursue its internal objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u87	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u88	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are considering a text allowing multilateral ratification to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits. The BEPS project raises, in my view, the fundamental question of tax territorialization. The Convention in question is not the only one to address this issue. The European draft consolidated common corporate tax base, or ACCIS, on which the European Parliament recently adopted two resolutions, also makes it clear that companies no longer have borders and that international tax law must be adapted to this new economic situation. I note, moreover, that the problem of the gap between the territory where wealth is created and that where this wealth is taxed also arises at the level of our local taxation, through the contribution on the added value of companies – but that is another subject. The international community has recognized that the current rules on corporate taxation are no longer adapted to the new economic environment. It is characterized by the globalization of trade and the internationalisation of enterprises. Consequently, the tax territory no longer coincides with the national territory. Faced with this limitation of national sovereignty, we must think of new tools to combat all forms of fiscal optimisation that lead to the relocation of profits where they are least taxed. The BEPS project is part of these new, innovative and ambitious multilateral instruments. It will enable our bilateral conventions to be transformed very quickly without the need for negotiations to be opened for each and every one of them, which will save a considerable amount of time. We must congratulate ourselves on that. However, Parliament should be informed of developments related to this Convention. These may concern new bilateral conventions that France would choose to notify or changes to reservations and options that it would undertake. Madam Secretary of State, I would like here to welcome the Government's commitment to keep Parliament informed, but also to accompany economic operators by warning them of their new tax obligations within this multilateral framework. This project demonstrates that, in the face of the disappearance of borders and the loss of national sovereignty in the fiscal field – the one that interests us here – only multilateralism and international cooperation can allow us to regain the room for manoeuvre that contributes to a new form of sovereignty. It was in this spirit that France played a leading role in the negotiations on the BEPS project of the OECD and the European ACCIS project, but also the GAFA tax project. It took initiatives and was exemplary in the discussions on these three projects. I want to welcome this attitude, which, in a way, renews the universalist vocation of France, applied here to a particular area of our diplomacy: I want to talk about fiscal diplomacy. France, which has the largest network of bilateral conventions in the world after that of the United Kingdom, has chosen to notify nearly fifty tax treaties, making it one of the most open countries of the BEPS project. It has taken options that demonstrate an ambitious approach, consistent with the leadership role it intends to play on the international stage in the fight against tax optimisation. No doubt, by signing the Convention, France will benefit from this openness and ambition when it competes with other countries to welcome new foreign direct investment into its territory or when its companies want to establish themselves in states that have also signed the text. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups]] The ratification of this Convention contributes to a new form of fiscal sovereignty in a world without borders, affirms our universal vocation and contributes to the attractiveness of our country. That is why I invite you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u90	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u91	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, the rapporteur for an opinion, ladies and gentlemen, Georges Clemenceau had a sharp sense of the formula, and our Chamber still resonates with his talents as a speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u92	He had some...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u93	Today I call your attention to one of his famous fulgurances passed to posterity: "There are two useless organs: the prostate and the President of the Republic. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u94	Oh, no...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u95	It must be noted that, under the Fifth Republic, a fortiori during the reign of Emmanuel Macron, the National Assembly replaced the President of the Republic in the category of superfluous organs. Indeed, it will not have escaped anyone that the OECD multilateral convention to combat tax evasion entered into force on 1 July and that it is only on 5 July that Members are invited to debate and vote on it. You will understand: this is not just a small calendar problem. This situation raises a fundamental question that should challenge us all, whether we sit on the benches of the majority or the opposition: what is the meaning of our mandate if we are only good at validating conventions already applied? The subject, however, deserves a real debate of substance rather than sterile palabres. Indeed, tax evasion is one of the major problems of our time. It is one of the corollaries of ultraliberal globalization that has enshrined the rule of the free movement of men, goods and financial flows. Without regulation or control, the perverse effects of this model quickly emerged: migratory submersion, social dumping, the posting of workers, wild and unfair competition, and, of course, tax evasion. The revelations of the so-called Offshore Leaks, LuxLeaks, Panama Papers and Paradise Papers highlighted the already well-known and often perfectly legal practices of tax optimisation on the part of multinationals and celebrities such as the Queen of England or singer Shakira. The concept is relatively simple and well-functioning: taxable profits are moved in countries in which they are weakly taxed, commonly referred to as tax havens. The GAFA, the world's new out-of-ground powers, has made it a speciality. Not all tax havens are hidden in distant and exotic lands. As I recall, the former Prime Minister of Luxembourg and current President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, is guilty of granting tax indulgences to multinationals. The European Union therefore has no lessons to teach in this regard. Tax evasion is expensive, very expensive. According to the IMF – the International Monetary Fund – for 2012, global transactions through tax havens amounted to €5,500 billion. According to the latest studies, France loses between 60 billion and 80 billion euros each year, a lost sum for national solidarity, a sum of euros that is not in the general interest but that enriches multinationals or show business stars. The OECD Multilateral Convention, adopted on 7 June 2017 in Paris by 78 countries, aims to amend the bilateral tax treaties of the signatory countries to incorporate the BEPS recommendations against aggressive tax optimisation. If this framework convention seems to go in the right direction and lay down some rules in the jungle of international taxation, France should not be the great candidity of the system. In other words, if France is to bear the standard of the fight against tax evasion, our companies must not be penalized and our industrial flowers must be more taxed abroad, without, in return, being able to tax foreign groups in our country. I therefore share the rapporteur's reservations and his wish for an assessment by the Government of the impact of the Convention. We need guarantees, not good feelings, because we are facing states determined to defend their interests and tax advantages. Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this Convention is a laudable effort which demonstrates a genuine political will to redress the evils of globalisation, but it will only be efficient if and only if the rogue states adhere to the rules of the game and cooperate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u96	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u97	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, since the early Athenian cities, techniques have been developed to escape taxation, even in countries whose governments are seeking to combat such practices. By exploiting the loopholes of current international tax rules, some multinational companies are developing strategies to transfer profits to States or jurisdictions in which they will not or will not be taxed. These practices are responsible for a massive loss of tax revenues from all countries: as has been said, the OECD estimates that they deprive states of between $100 billion and $240 billion in tax revenues per year. Trade development should not be at the expense of government revenues. There is, of course, a need to eliminate double taxation, which is detrimental to mobility. On the other hand, a total tax exemption due to double non-taxation is not acceptable. In this sense, in the context of an international and coordinated response to tax trafficking, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has launched the project to combat the erosion of tax bases and the transfer of profits, known as "BEPS", which consists of putting in place tools to eliminate as much as possible the possibilities of international tax optimization. This convention is therefore of a completely innovative kind: it allows for a rapid, coordinated and flexible response in a matter which often encounters blockages, while at the same time allowing for the modification of all the tax treaties in force, but leaving considerable room for manoeuvre to the States. France, driven by its unwavering determination to combat tax evasion, has chosen to cover 61 of its conventions by the multilateral convention, or about half of its conventional network, which demonstrates a certain ambition in terms of international tax fairness. Thus, it was decided that the purpose of the tax treaties, namely the elimination of double taxation, but also the fight against non-taxation, would concern all the conventions notified by France. This comprehensiveness not only allows for a better readability but also for the harmonization of the texts on this subject. France's choices should be discussed in more detail. Thus, the rules governing favourable dividend taxation regimes have not been subject to any reservations on our part. These rules are formulated in order to combat abusive conduct by taking interests in a foreign company shortly before the distribution of dividends for the sole purpose of benefiting from a tax exemption or a tax at a reduced rate. The fight against commissionaire agreements is also fully committed by France, as they may prove to be abusive. In fact, they consist of entrusting an agent with an operation in which he or she will play a decisive role without the fact that he or she concludes the contract. In the absence of a legal commitment, the establishment on whose behalf it has negotiated will not be qualified as a permanent establishment. As a result, it will not be possible to take responsibility for the company. Such a provision had been lacking, in July 2017, in the case concerning the Google Group; Indeed, the quality of permanent establishment could not be recognized by Google France, despite its weight in trade and economic negotiations. This convention therefore allows us to go beyond legal fictions in order to give priority to economic realities. These various schemes will help to put an end to abusive tax optimisation schemes, which are drawn up using the current conventions. It is essential to move beyond this framework in order to achieve our objective of combating tax abuse and tax evasion. Although other countries, which facilitate the establishment of such schemes, have expressed reservations, the commitment of some companies to change their practices allows for favourable developments in the coming years, both on the part of companies and States. Public opinion and the number of parties ratifying these agreements will also be a major lever in the evolution of each other's positions. The approach adopted in this convention is in line with the Government's stated objective in the fight against tax optimisation and goes hand in hand with the paradigm shift reflected in the latter: it allows companies to anticipate changes that will intensify in the years to come. The interpretation of international tax treaties, if not made completely impossible, remains at least more arduous for companies seeking to knowingly avoid tax. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the ratification of this Convention will send a strong signal: real international cooperation is at work to combat unfair practices. President Emmanuel Macron has made multilateralism a cornerstone of France's international policy. I therefore invite you to authorize the ratification of this Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u98	Mr Eric Alauzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u99	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, in September 2013 in St Petersburg, the G20 mandates the OECD to counter the avoidance strategies put in place by multinationals. As a result, in July 2018, France ratified the BEPS Directive designed to counter the erosion of tax bases and transfers of profits that are characterized as aggressive tax optimisation. It's a success. Many lessons need to be learned from this five-year sequence. First lesson: This result is first and foremost a success of multilateralism. It is not insignificant to recall this when the current international political sequence is moving us away from it. In this multilateralism, the roles of the European Union and France have been decisive. Second teaching: it takes time, patience, self-denial to negotiate, to establish the law, to imagine credible solutions. No invigorating statement, no glamour, no national injunction should deceive anyone and lead to any miracle solution. Third teaching: in a globalization in which liberalism and the erasure of rules flourish, paradoxically, the need for rules is expressed with vigour. Is it not the British Liberal Prime Minister, David Cameron, who, in 2013, imposed on the ten Overseas Territories of the British Crown – considered tax havens – to sign an international agreement on bank transparency? Why? Simply because any Government, however liberal it may be, needs tax revenues to finance its political project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u100	Absolutely! You have to tell Édouard Philippe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u101	Fourth teaching: transparency is undoubtedly the mother of all battles, thus checking the saying "to live happily, live hidden". The disclosure of financial information from companies for all their subsidiaries in non-cooperative countries for the benefit of the tax administration is both a deterrent and a source of information for tax control. It remains to be obtained the public communication of this information, which is now only effective for banks – a step forward in this House in 2013, at the turn of the law on separation and regulation of banking activities, thanks to an amendment that I tabled, a few months before the European Union adopted this rule in its turn, and which at the time had not aroused more interest than the debate this morning on the benches of the right of this Chamber... The result of the BEPS Directive, which is part of a process that will lead to greater tax fairness and fair competition between businesses, is to be welcomed. It is dangerous for social cohesion that large companies escape tax by postponing the burden of public action and social protection on SMEs and households. This situation produces injustice and impoverishment, which eventually provokes discontent and extreme votes. While the fiscal and budgetary issue is clear, it is necessary to clarify its scope. Why? Because advanced figures, repeated in loops in this House or in the media, can lead us astray. When we announce an amount of tax evasion of 60 billion to 80 billion euros a year, the temptation is great to put this figure in touch with other issues, for example the 60 billion deficit of the state budget that some think can erase so with a magic wand. But often the reasoning does not stop there. With the same billions of tax evasion, some claim to clear the debt, including that of SNCF, stop the reduction of state budgets – on the contrary, they would increase, for the benefit of schools, universities, transport, energy transition, housing, training, justice, prisons, the police or the gendarmerie. And then, on this momentum, the problem of pensions would be solved; Even better, we would retire at the age of sixty, we would have money for the family, the hospital, the EHPADs – the residential institutions for the dependent elderly. And here we are with an additional potential expenditure of between 120 billion and 150 billion a year, an amount of the same order, all in all, as the 100 billion envisaged by the new Italian government. Even the EUR 60 billion are far from being acquired. The OECD estimates the amount of aggressive tax optimization worldwide between $100 billion and $240 billion. France's share cannot be 60 billion, let alone 80 billion, and it will take years to recover part of it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I will make two remarks. First, let us make the most of BEPS by bringing multinationals back to tax citizenship and continue to work towards the establishment of a tax based on real activity in each country – this is the ACCIS project, a joint consolidated corporate tax base, a major political subject. Secondly, let us not hide behind the myth of a financial manna that would exempt us from structural reforms that our countries need. It is our responsibility to remind him and not to allow dreams that end up in nightmares to flourish.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u102	The agenda of our assembly, this afternoon and tonight, is busy. I therefore propose that we finish our consideration of this text, each of us trying to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u103	Yes! Let's move on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u104	[[Smile]] Mr. Coquerel has made moral commitments to me; I have no doubt that they will be bound.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u105	I received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to adjourn pursuant to Rule 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u106	"To strange evils, strange remedies are applied. It is a phrase from Shakespeare, taken from a lot of noise for nothing, a title that could summarize the bill that is being proposed to us this morning. Nevertheless, as I am in a great mood, I would say that it is rather "a lot of noise for not much." In any case, this text unfortunately – because I think we will all regret it – has more to do with the appearance of a fight against tax evasion than with a concrete reality. I would like to return to the stated objectives of ratification of this multilateral convention, which are twofold: to implement measures relating to tax treaties to prevent, first, the erosion of the tax base and, second, the transfer of profits. This project, set up in 2014 by the OECD at the request of the G20, was signed by 78 states, but major powers such as the United States – this has been recalled many times this morning – or Brazil is not party to this multilateral convention. First of all, I have said that it is not nothing but not much – that this agreement has at least one merit: it poses the problem of the tax holding-up organised by multinationals, in particular the digital ones, known as "GAFA", which reduce the profit of a subsidiary located in a country with a high tax rate to increase that of a subsidiary located in a country with a lower tax rate. The losses attributable to this permanent holding-up are estimated at between $100 billion and $240 billion a year – as has been said and said again, but I think we must always have in mind these figures, which deserve to be taken into account. The objective of this Convention is commendable, since it encourages us to reflect on the taxation of profits where they are achieved. But when we look at the conditions for its implementation, we fall apart: each country can select, as in a catalogue, the actions of the plan that it wishes to include in its bilateral conventions; if a particular measure is chosen by only one of the two States, it may not be included in the bilateral convention. In a context where very harsh austerity policies are applied throughout Europe for the people, I do not understand how we can afford to leave a vague catalogue formula to the states on such an important issue, without any compulsion. Of course, as I said, we support the objectives of this plan, but those of the whole plan, not just the one or those of a particular article. And we support it with many reservations. First, this plan is organized by the G20, a club of rich countries, to which we deny all legitimacy. For our part, we believe that this convention should be discussed at the global level, by the only legitimate body recognized by States, namely the United Nations. Secondly, only the voluntary countries signed the multilateral agreement; The US and some tax havens have not done so. Multinationals will therefore be able to continue to declare their profits in these countries by playing the game of cups that we know. The fact that the United States has not signed this convention is not annoyance. It must be said that the profits accumulated by the GAFAs in some tax havens have enough to make the European states pale, to whom more austerity is imposed. Until very recently, the U.S. tax system was based on the principle of global profit: as long as U.S. firms did not repatriate their profits from abroad, they were not taxed. This is how digital giants – but not just them – built huge cash mountains in offshore paradises: $16 billion for Facebook, $63 billion for Google and even the incredible $252 billion for Apple evoked by my comrade Clementine Autain. What is more, the United States does not care about this kind of multilateral convention. On the one hand, the introduction by the FACTA – ForeignAccount Tax Compliance Act, or the law on the compliance of foreigners' tax accounts –, a kind of universal taxation based on nationality, already allows them to fight tax evasion a little more effectively. We also support the idea of such a tax system, which should be applied in our country. At least the United States is not afraid to take unilateral action against its nationals who violate the principle of equality before taxes. On the other hand, Donald Trump's ultraliberal tax reform provides for the introduction of a tax rate reduced to 15% so that US firms can repatriate their foreign profits to the United States. Apple alone will contribute $38 billion to the U.S. tax funds. Of course, European states will not see the colour, and this Convention will unfortunately not change anything. It should also be noted that some tax havens, such as Hong Kong, the Isle of Man or Jersey, are still signatories. Let us go a little further and consider the commitments they have made, bearing in mind that most of the standards included in this Convention are optional, i.e. non-compulsory, and that the flexibility of application is great. For example, Ireland has already made a reservation to Article 12, which defines what a permanent establishment is. Therefore, the fact that this country is ratifying the Convention will unfortunately not change the taxation of GAFAs installed there in order to escape tax. In front of the Finance Committee this morning, Bruno Le Maire – who is present in the Chamber and has not yet had the gift of ubiquity, I did not attend this meeting, which I regret because the minister has clearly said interesting things – spoke of the need to define, in the longer term, at the level of the European Union and the OECD, the concept of establishment. At the same time, however, he explained that, with regard to Ireland, which was indeed a problem, one could work on preferential taxation, i.e. on some kind of privilege over future taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u107	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u108	This would ultimately be a reward for a state that has been involved in tax dumping for years, which would be a bit odd. Furthermore, we regret that the specific question of the tax regime applicable to the digital sector has been removed from the scope of work on the convention. Of course, the transfer of profits is not just about digital giants. Take the example of the multinational McDonald's. The company's net profit increased by 3.47% in 2016, reaching $4.69 billion. Its shareholders, who have received $30 billion in dividends in three years, can rejoice, but the French public treasury is much less, since the multinational uses the Luxembourg tax haven to avoid having to pay its taxes in the countries in which it operates. By the way, she's also a fan of a game she's playing in many countries, which consists of franchising restaurants and turning into a kind of renter of the buildings she's bought, which allows her to get out of some tax frameworks – but that's another debate. In recent years, McDonald's franchised restaurants have sent up to 24% of their turnover to the multinational's Luxembourg holding company – I would point out that the conditions prevailing in the Luxembourg tax haven have been largely put in place by Mr Juncker. It is thus 75 million to 120 million euros that escape from the French public treasury every year. However, the measures announced by Emmanuel Macron risk aggravating the situation. Indeed, the President of the Republic has committed himself to the race for tax competition by gradually lowering corporate taxes without, however, removing tax niches, allegedly to "reach the European average" and "incentive companies to pay their taxes". This new corporate tax cut decided by this government will be just another gift. Moreover, the plan we are discussing does not tackle another crucial problem: we should end the race for at least the so-called fiscal system imposed by the financial system between states, especially between European states – this race being allowed by the European treaties, which, I would remind you, actually prohibit any tax harmonisation. The downward race to corporate tax on the pretext of attracting businesses is extremely dangerous, not only because it exacerbates tensions between states – we have indeed seen that it results in far-right policies or governments – but also because it weakens them by reducing potentially redistributeable tax revenues. I am part of it: everything happens as if the main measures taken to combat tax evasion were to reduce the tax for those who practice it. In the long run, if we cut the tax altogether, there would be no tax evasion! I sum up the situation in a somewhat caricatural way, of course, but it is still, to a certain extent, the logic that currently prevails. France is not alone in pursuing this logic. Between 2010 and 2016, I would point out that the average corporate tax rate fell from 32 to 23 % in the European Union and, again this morning, again before the Finance Committee, Bruno Le Maire explained that he was going to work on a common base with Germany, which can only cause us concern because it would only reduce the corporate tax, which is lower in this country. This rate of 23% does not concern the digital sector, which is imposed on average at 9%. Again, it is clear that the companies concerned will soon no longer need to try to tax evasion. For its part, Ireland, in 15 years, has halved its corporate tax rate, which now stands at 12.5 %. Luxembourg has also promised to gradually reduce its rate from 21 % to 18 %. With Brexit, the United Kingdom is also engaged in this infernal spiral of the lowest so-called tax. Even more serious, the so-called European list of tax havens is, let me put it this way, ladies and gentlemen, a huge joke! It does not include any European countries from the outset, whereas at least four European Union countries, namely Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and the Netherlands, would be highly worthy of inclusion. Above all, it is enough to promise that we will change and that we will be more cooperative to be immediately removed from the list of tax havens. In this regard, there is either confounding naivety or disturbing complicity. It is therefore no wonder that this list now includes only seven States in the world, which makes it totally ineffective. Therefore, when the Government proposes, in its next anti-fraud bill, to adopt this European list at the national level, this is again a pure publicity effect. Unfortunately, this will not improve the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, but it suggests that the problem of tax havens is being tackled. The absence of these European countries from the list is all the more serious because they are the ones who organise competition between the states and push for tax war in the European Union, which I have just described. The lack of fiscal and social harmonisation is ultimately the basis for extensive EU-wide dumping, which has little to do with the necessary cooperation between peoples. In short, the European Union, vassalized by financial capital, is currently unable to put an end to this system. The proof is that Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and Cyprus are already blocking an agreement on the taxation of GAFAs, which must be voted unanimously for adoption. Outside the European Union, the situation is no better: many powers such as China, Mexico, Israel and, of course, the United States, absent from this multilateral convention, are engaged in the same infernal race to tax competition. This, which pushes States to impose ever less the richest of their citizens, has very concrete consequences on the use of national wealth. This morning, Challenge magazine revealed that the wealth of France's 500 largest fortunes had doubled over the last ten years, from 325 billion to 650 billion euros. Needless to say, these additional 325 billion, which are a collection of wealth produced by all, are the result of many tax gifts granted, which the 2018 Finance Act has amplified widely. It is of course fundamental to tackle this problem at the international level, but let us also bear in mind that we could solve part of it at national level or, at the very least, set an example. Many economists make interesting proposals to this effect on the GAFA issue. Gabriel Zucman, in particular, presented a large number of them during his hearing by the fact-finding mission on tax optimisation and avoidance. The Committee recommends, inter alia, that the turnover generated in each country by multinationals be used to determine a key to the distribution of the profits to be reported by multinationals. For example, if a company generates half its turnover in France, half of its profits will have to be taxed in France for corporate tax. This would make the transfer of benefits unnecessary, and the desired objective would be achieved much more effectively – the results would in any case be concrete and immediate – than with a convention which is, unfortunately, akin to a catalogue of optional measures. In my view, we should also discuss this rather than giving priority to international conventions that are somewhat meaningless. We all agree: action must be taken against tax evasion, and urgently. Let us therefore begin by acting at the level where we are sovereign, that is, at the national level. France is a great country, scrutinized by its neighbours. Therefore, if we succeed in putting in place an effective solution to this scourge – I am sure we could – other countries could follow suit. There is a matter of example, of virtue. In my opinion, it is because we accept too much of the decline or because we do not want to understand that the world's fifth economic power can set the example that we have not been acting for years. Or it is because we intend to pursue another policy, in favour of the richest, with the idea that always less taxes, it benefits all; But I will not insult you to believe that this is what you think and apply, despite the measures you have taken over the past year. Gradually, we could serve as an example for these countries, which could set these measures in turn, if necessary by improving them. This would pave the way for a global agreement on these issues. We reiterate that this work should be led by the United Nations. Instead of addressing this problem, the Government prefers to introduce a bill that, not only, for the time being, in the light of the current text, will in no way make it possible to combat fraud more effectively, but above all, will not even tackle the scourge of tax evasion. I therefore hope that we will have the opportunity to amend it widely and to improve it. During his interview on 15 April, the Head of State was pleased to distinguish between fraud and optimisation. We do not agree with this distinction because we believe that we need to adapt our rules to make tax avoidance mechanisms really illegal. Optimisation should also be addressed, which is sometimes only the legal version of tax evasion or, in any case, a way of circumventing the rules and diverting what is owed by each person for tax purposes, in the interests of equality. That would require the development of a real bill, as I said. I think we also need to ask the right questions about the text before us today: will this plan really solve the problem of tax evasion? Obviously, no. So how can we solve the question? Can you already, Madam Secretary of State, give us a range of additional revenue from this agreement? I note that France has expressed reservations – very few, it is true: four out of fifteen, which the large French companies regretted. Although it is good for our country to display a certain voluntarism, it is unfortunately expressed through an optional text. Mr. The Mayor – and I will stop there, which will reassure the President – said this morning that, thanks to this major text, which would allow for the relocation of profits, there would ultimately be no tax evasion. If the agreement produces this ideal result, one wonders why the minister wants to tax turnover. For my part, I have less confidence than he has in a convention under which almost everything is optional. On the other hand, I note that he wants to propose to the President of the Republic to convene, on the model of COP21, a conference of the parties on tax evasion. This measure seems to me to be a good one, and I will support Mr Le Maire. You see, we're not sectarian!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u109	It was originally a communist idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u110	I was going to say: this is an idea that comes from the GDR group. Like what, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, at some point, it is worth looking at on his left. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In short, pending a more precise response and better information from Parliament, I think it is necessary to review the bill in committee. That is why I ask you to vote on the motion to adjourn, so that we can improve the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u111	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u112	I will reply with a word to our colleague. We will not vote on the motion for adjournment, so the text will be referred back to committee for two reasons. First, the work in committee was very substantial. The rapporteur has conducted more than 20 hearings and the draftswoman for her opinion has done the same. We've had a lot of exchanges. The debate in committee has therefore been broad and in-depth. You did not attend, Mr. Coquerel; I understand that, but know that we have devoted the necessary time. I therefore consider the assembly to be perfectly enlightened. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Secondly, we may have a difference of opinion, but I do not think there should be an adjournment, because there is an urgent need. Yes, there is an urgent need for effective and relevant tools to combat tax evasion, which the convention will allow us to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u113	It is indeed a point of disagreement between us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u114	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u115	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these very interesting exchanges. Their high quality shows that you are interested in the subject and that you follow it in detail. I note that you are carefully examining the French arrangements, discussions and positions, which I am grateful for. I found most of your comments very relevant. You recognize the scale of the stake we are tackling and stress the fundamental nature of the subject, which is the basis of the fundamental trust that binds our societies and their democratic institutions, our societies and their economic operators, and which must be preserved. Some of you recognize the innovative, exceptionally fast, legal path that the OECD negotiations have made possible. They welcomed France's exemplary choices and its leading role in international discussions. We are very encouraged by their support. You have carried out extensive work to prepare the discussion. I thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur for her opinion. Their comments were useful and taken into account by the Government, in particular with regard to the splitting of contracts. It is a subject that we have been thinking about, which we have been working on, which we have analysed. We have also sought to improve the readability of the arrangements for bilateral and multilateral conventions for operators. I join with those Members who deplore the fact that the United States is absent from the multilateral convention. After participating in the discussions, the representatives of that country did indeed avoid. We may regret this, but we will of course continue to work with them, try to convince them and work under bilateral conventions that bind us to them. These are consistent with many of the provisions of the multilateral convention and provide a basis for moving forward, in the context of peer review at the OECD, and for further dialogue with the United States on their tax practice. Unlike Mrs Autain and Mr Coquerel, I consider the OECD to be the appropriate framework for discussing this type of topic. The discussions are thus held in a forum open to all interested countries and territories, rather than limited to the G20 or OECD countries. This inclusive framework will give the convention an optimal impact. It also benefits from the expertise of OECD services to find strong solutions. Reservations were expressed on arbitration procedures, which we have identified as one of the options chosen by France. I would like to make two clarifications about them. On the one hand, these procedures will be limited to the scope of situations of effective double taxation. On the other hand, they will exclude cases where a court decision has been handed down in one of the countries concerned. Therefore, their use has a rather tight framework; This is not a total opening. Your comments are an encouragement not to stop us there. We are determined to do so. We want to work, especially at European level, on common approaches. You will vote for the inclusion of the European list of non-cooperative states in French law, through the draft law on the fight against fraud. This inclusion will make it possible to associate countermeasures with this list, and thus to set an example within the European Union in order to give it a stronger impact. We will soon transpose the directive establishing rules to combat tax evasion practices within the groups, which has just been adopted. We have also included in our programme the transposition of the DAC 6 – Directive on administrative cooperation in the tax field – adopted in May to combat tax schemes optimising through intermediaries; It is an additional tool for the European Union to tackle tax optimisation schemes, which France has strongly encouraged to adopt. Many of you recalled the need to continue working on the taxation of digital giants. Of course, we are at the forefront of these issues, both within the European Union, the OECD and all international fora, and in all our bilateral exchanges. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, we continue to work at European level on the convergence of taxable corporate tax bases. On this subject, we have made significant progress with Germany, which gives us hope that we will achieve a European consensus next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u116	In the explanations of vote on the motion for adjournment, the floor is for Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u117	First of all, I note that, when we debate tax havens and tax evasion, a large part of the House is not interested, even though it once claimed that it was going to make a revolution in this area. In the Communist Party, it is customary to say that if the right is absent during the discussion of a text or if it does not like it, it is that it goes in the right direction. In this case, since the right is not present, it must not please him; So maybe it's in the right direction! My Comrade Coquerel regrets that the measures envisaged are purely optional, the convention too unbinding, etc. I agree with him. However, it should be remembered that these are multilateral treaties. We, members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, are eternally frustrated. If we cannot amend the Treaties, we do not miss the desire. However, they should be regarded as the lowest common denominator found. Nevertheless, it leaves space for action, this has been shown. It is up to all of us to ensure that they are actually used in all the treaties that we will have to discuss over the next few years. Perhaps we could also suggest that the treaties be renegotiated and invite our executive to do so if they are not in line with the measures we are about to adopt. Working in this direction seems more useful to me than to adjourn, i.e. to give up the use of spaces of action. That is why we will vote against the motion. But I want us to really play our role as parliamentarians by demanding that voluntary measures, which are fundamental issues for us, become permanent imperatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u118	Mrs Mireille Clapot, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u119	The rules of international taxation prove to be inadequate. They open up the possibility for multinationals to reduce their tax burdens to a large extent, in particular by artificially transferring their profits to low- or zero-tax states or territories. In order to combat this phenomenon, the multilateral convention makes it possible to introduce important advances in the bilateral tax treaties in force. These advances are intended to ensure that profits will be taxed where the economic activities that generate them actually take place, and where value is created, in particular by combating the misuse of tax treaties. They also aim to make the necessary changes to the definition of stable establishments. Finally, with regard to the settlement of disputes, the minimum standard for improving the amicable procedures already applied by the French party will, in particular, allow the taxpayer to initiate proceedings in either of the two States concerned. France has adopted a broad approach to the application of the Convention, with few reservations, in order to send a strong political signal, which has enabled other States to become more involved. The La République en marche group supports the multilateral convention. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You will allow me to be surprised, Mr. Coquerel, that you supported a motion to adjourn. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, You mentioned a lot of noise for nothing, Shakespeare. You would have done better to invoke Pierre Dac, who said, "Why pay his income taxes? It's better to wait for them to leave. Let us not wait, ladies and gentlemen of the La France insoumée group, who claim to make the fight against tax evasion a priority! Let's not wait, let's not adjourn! The La République on the move opposes the motion for adjournment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u121	The next speaker is Mr Frédéric Petit, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u122	Mr Coquerel, one thing surprised me in your demonstration: you have cited the example of American taxation, which I believe is a war tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u123	In what sense?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u124	I do not see how the principle of a global tax on nationals can be defended. The United States is demonstrating that it does not want to cooperate. I am therefore very surprised that you have cited this example. This is a time when we have to say things clearly and try to deepen them. Global taxation on nationals poses the problem of the life of the planet. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] For my part, I think the proposed agreement is good. We will therefore, of course, vote against the motion for adjournment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u125	Mr Christian Hutin, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u126	I will say two words, since it is difficult for a group not to speak on a motion to adjourn. We will not vote for it, even though I share much of Mr Coquerel's analysis, which included some of the arguments I mentioned earlier. But, as the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs said, there is an urgent need. However, when there is an emergency, we take the therapy that is available: it will probably not cure, but it is necessary. This bill is a step forward. That is why, in my view, we need to talk less about deferment than about possibilities for adjustment. I reiterate that it seems essential to me, in accordance with the recommendation of the Council of State, to involve Parliament much more. This must be done systematically, and we must examine the situation country by country, convention by convention. Perhaps the information will go through the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u127	Mrs Clémentine Autain, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u128	I wish to support the motion for adjournment. There is indeed an urgent need to act, Madam President, but we believe that we must act properly. To do so quickly without achieving the objectives does not seem to us to be effective. Several states, including France, are pursuing a new policy of reducing the taxes of the richest to prevent them from escaping. This ultimately represents a loss of profits. This response to fraud does not draw people up and does not collect what is right to develop our societies. Nothing in your policy really seems to us to be geared towards the fight against tax fraud, optimisation and avoidance; We believe that you are not taking the necessary steps. Moreover, if the existing laws are to be enforced, there is a need for a large number of staff in Bercy to carry out the work. However, these posts are in decline. We can vote for texts, but if there are not adequate staff to get them adopted, they won't be. With regard to the United States, Mr Petit, I believe that we are not understood: the American law referred to by my colleague Eric Coquerel is old and is rather a protectionist one; She has nothing to do with war. This is not at all the state of mind in which our remark was placed. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We really call on you to continue the work in committee, to go much further and put an end to the unbearable scourge of tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u129	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u130	Mrs Emilie Cariou, who has been inscribed on the single article, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u131	I emphasize the need to pass the single clause of the bill. Although it does not represent the final outcome of the fight against tax optimisation and tax havens, it brings an extremely important stone to the building. I recall that the construction site started in 2012. In 2013, the OECD tabled its report to combat tax base erosion and profit transfer, and joined forces with the G20 to focus on tackling tax optimisation. I would like to recall here that this struggle was launched very firmly in 2012. As our colleague pointed out, the right of the House is completely empty, and the previous governments had in fact given up fighting tax optimisation a little bit. There is now an urgent need to adopt this text. Madam Secretary of State, as you have pointed out, the subject of tax fraud will soon return to the Chamber, with the revision of the list of tax havens. If the projects under way remain rather modest, we are discussing them and making progress. The OECD conventions have already begun to change business practices, and the prospect of the adoption of new conventions continues to change practices. All this goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u132	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1004.u133	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Discussion of the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and New Zealand; Discussion of the draft law authorizing accession to the protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms; Discussion, in further reading, of the draft law on the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes and communities of agglomeration. The meeting is adjourned.
