ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law ratifying Order No 2017-1252 of 9 August 2017 transposing Directive 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market (No 368, 607).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u3	Mr President, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before you allows for the ratification of Order No. 2017-1252 of 9 August 2017. The European Directive 2015/2366, known as "Payment Services 2", or DSP 2, updates and complements the European payment services scheme with a view to encouraging this activity in the internal market of the European Union. It updates Directive 2007/ 64/EC of 13 November 2017, known as DSP 1, which introduced a first framework of activities by supplementing the typology of banking actors. Directive DSP 1 had thus created payment institutions, Directive 2009/110 of 16 September 2009 on the taking up of the business of electronic money institutions which subsequently gave rise to electronic money institutions, with a reduced regime compared to credit institutions, in order to make the payment services market in the internal market more competitive and dynamic. The new 2015 Directive lays down rules governing access to payment service activity, supervision of payment service providers, technical arrangements for payment transactions and the rights and obligations of parties to a payment service. It aims to promote an open and competitive framework in the payments sector, while raising the standards of transaction security. It also improves the existing framework resulting from the first Directive and adapts it to the emergence of new practices. It has three main points. First of all, it recognises new players coming to intersect between banks and their customers in order to provide new services and facilitate payments, while preserving the security of the devices. These new players include account aggregators, who have significant potential for both individuals and businesses in providing educational access to their financial information. They are also the payment initiators, whose intermediary activity must make it possible to fluidise the making of transfers. Secondly, this Directive strengthens the conditions for the authorisation and supervision of payment institutions, in particular by developing the powers of the supervisors of countries in which the institutions freely exercise their services. Finally, it raises security standards for transactions, including by generalizing strong authentication for online transactions. The transposition of this directive into our law is therefore an opportunity for the French financial centre and is fully in line with the objectives pursued by the Government: to foster innovation, to strengthen competition in order to boost growth and improve services to consumers and businesses, while ensuring greater security of payments. France has always been at the forefront of innovation in payments: for example, we have been pioneers in the field of smart card payment. It must remain at the forefront of innovation and continue to display it: this is the ambition we have set ourselves through this transposition. As a result, the Government took care to rapidly transpose DSP 2 in order to enable all actors in the Place de Paris to take ownership of the new arrangements, build market confidence and attract innovators. The Order transposing the Directive was thus adopted on 9 August 2017, on the basis of the authorization given to the Government by Act No. 2016-1691 of 9 December 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life. The purpose of this bill is to proceed with the ratification of this Order by Parliament. The Government wishes, through this bill, to complete the mechanism defined in the Ordinance on two main points: the accompanying of the new cash delivery service in the context of a purchase, also known as cashback, and the acceleration of the security of the system resulting from the directive. These are new elements in relation to the text of the order. First of all, with regard to accompanying the so-called cashback practice, an amendment to Article 2 is proposed in order to accompany the development of this practice of rendering complementary cash, at the request of the customer, when a purchase is made. This service is available in most of our neighbours, including Germany, Spain, Belgium and the United Kingdom. Directive DSP 2 provides that this service may be provided without being subject to the rules for payment services. It therefore leaves it to States, in fact, to define the practical modalities for its implementation. This service has many advantages that I would like to draw your attention to. They justified the Government's wish to see the early adoption of a framework for its development. First of all, this service offers advantages for traders, who will be able to offer a new service to their customers, which they will be able to charge if they wish. This additional service will attract more customers to the store. In addition, it will provide traders with a means to manage their stocks more effectively in cash. Trade associations unanimously expressed their interest in this new service. It will also benefit consumers who will thus see the range of services they can access from their traders expanded. Most importantly, this service will respond to the isolation of the most remote territories where access relays to species are often too limited or too remote. This is a response to a concern on which my attention is regularly drawn. It is therefore a proposal to which, as I know, the local elected representatives are very attached. The amendment proposed by the Government will thus both provide a readable and stable framework for traders, in order to encourage this practice, to ensure the quality of the circulation of cash throughout the country and to prevent the risk of money laundering by specifying its modalities, in particular by setting withdrawal thresholds. The Government is proposing an amendment to speed up the process of securing the conditions for the exercise of the activities of new third parties. The date of entry into force of the Directive was 13 January 2018. However, the Directive refers to a regulatory technical standard of the European Banking Authority, EBA, which is an essential part of the system for securing computer access to payment accounts by these new players. This technical standard requires banks to develop secure communication interfaces – known as APIs – for programming interface applications – to ensure open but secure access by account aggregators and payment initiators to payment account data held by banks. The adoption of this technical standard has been delayed: it is expected to take place at the end of February 2018, for 18 months later, in September 2019, leaving a significant delay before the effective introduction of this security system. This transitional period presents risks in terms of cyber security for all actors, as the current practice of webscraping, which consists of recovering – of course with its agreement – the user's usernames and passwords and pretending to be him to access his online bank account, will continue to prevail. The Governor of the Bank of France and the Director General of the Agence nationale de la sécurité des systèmes d'information – ANSII – alerted the Government to the risks involved. What's at stake? Risks of damage to current account data which constitute particularly sensitive personal data. These risks will be controlled once APIs are available and applicable under this new technical standard. The Government therefore proposes to anticipate the entry into force of this secure system, so that, for banks ready in advance, the API can be tested and made mandatory on two conditions: on the one hand, that it meets the performance and quality requirements defined by the technical standard, and on the other hand, that the banks ensure that new third-party actors will be able to continue to operate. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This will be subject to open testing to ensure that all new players will be able to continue their activities in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u4	Mrs Nadia Hai, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u5	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to apologize to the rapporteur-general who, following the weather, has had to return to his constituency. Today we are considering the bill to ratify the order of 9 August 2017 which transposed the directive of 23 November 2015 on payment services, known as DSP 2. The provisions of DSP 2 apply, for the most part, since January 13, 2018. In the current state of law, however, some will only apply – I will come back – in August 2019. The Directive has three objectives: to promote innovation and competition in the field of payment services, to protect the consumer and, finally, to improve the security of users' data. DSP 2 is a technical text covering a wide range of actors and operations. It must be admitted that the requirement of precision of the standard has enabled the "tech" language to express all its richness. But behind the acronyms, the acronyms to the awkward pronunciation and the legal categories with more or less established perimeters, it is the daily life of our fellow citizens that will be changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u6	That's reassuring!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u7	Indeed, the objectives of the Directive are focused on the interests of the consumer: the DSP 2 supports innovation in the payment services sector while protecting users' data. In recent years, innovation has resulted in the emergence and development of new actors and practices to which DSP 2 has provided a legal framework. It has thus granted status to two types of third-party service providers whose activities are in full development. This is on the one hand the payment initiation services which pass payment orders, at the request of a user, from a payment account held with a bank. For example, they allow consumers to pay for their online purchases by simple transfer, while giving traders the assurance that payment has been initiated. There are about 2.5 million users of these services in France and 50 million in Europe. These are, on the other hand, accounts information services called also information aggregators. Companies providing these services offer their customers a cross-sectional view of their finances on all their accounts that can be held with different banks. France has about 4 million users of these services, including 200,000 companies. In Europe, there are 15 million. Encouraging the development of these players stimulates competition in the sector: the consumer can compare various banking offers on many criteria. It also has advice to optimize its management according to its profile or needs: some French Fintech players are particularly successful in these areas and DSP 2 is a source of opportunities for them. Of course, in order to operate, these new providers – which already have a few years of activity – must have access to certain data held by users' banks. Today, this access is possible, but it is not regulated. Service providers use their customers' identifiers to connect to their banks' sites and retrieve the data necessary for their business: this technique is called the unidentified web scraping. However, it presents frailties both in terms of data security and in legal terms. One of the problems is the establishment of responsibilities for poorly executed operations. Without the identification of third-party providers, it is very difficult to determine the responsibilities of each. That is why the directive regulates these practices. On the one hand, it obliges banks to provide third-party providers with access to the data necessary for their business. On the other hand, it secures this access by providing that third-party providers will identify themselves with banks via a dedicated secure interface. They will no longer be able to use their clients' identifiers. In other words, the unidentified web scraping will be prohibited. These provisions will only apply after a transitional period of 18 months, starting with the adoption of a delegated regulation laying down regulatory technical standards. The European Commission has published a draft regulation, which is likely to be adopted at the end of this month. This project sets out the requirements to be met by dedicated interfaces. It also provides for a back-up mechanism, if these interfaces fail. In such cases, banks will be obliged to make their customer interface available to third-party providers, so that third-party providers can access the data by identifying themselves. However, banks may be exempted from this requirement if certain conditions guaranteeing the performance of dedicated interfaces are met. During the transition phase, the interfaces will be tested by third party providers. The French banks have decided to develop so-called API interfaces – Application Programming Interface – that meet the security criteria set out by the Commission in its project. In order to access banking data, third-party providers will be required to identify themselves via these API interfaces at the end of the transition period, i.e. in August 2019. The aim will be to ensure that APIs meet the Commission's criteria not only for data security, but also for its effectiveness in the activities of third-party providers. In the rule of law, by August 2019, the current system will continue to apply, with a risk, which has been mentioned, relating to data security. That is why it would be useful to shorten the transitional phase and to move forward with the implementation of the directive, while maintaining its balance. I will therefore support the Government's amendment along those lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u8	That's surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u9	The regulation of the activities of payment initiation providers and aggregators is not the only step forward of DSP 2. It also contains provisions strengthening data security requirements in general; In particular, it provides for customers to have access to their payment accounts through a strong authentication system. This access procedure will combine several identification factors, ensuring an adequate level of safety. In addition, the rules of supervision and cross-border cooperation are being reformed. The conditions for the approval of payment services are supplemented. Communication between the different supervisory authorities of the Member States, within the framework of the right of establishment and the freedom to provide services, is made more systematic. Finally, consumers' rights in payment services are being improved. For example, DSP 2 lowers the ceiling on the amount that payment service providers can impose on their customers in the event of fraudulent use of their payment instrument from EUR 150 to EUR 50. Consideration of the ratification bill will be an opportunity to go further in this direction, in the interest of the consumer. In particular, I am thinking of an amendment by the Government, the consequences of which would be very concrete: it seeks to define rules so that traders are allowed to provide cash to their customers. That's what we call, in bad French, cashback.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u10	It's not bad French, it's anglicism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u11	In theory, this practice has already been allowed since DSP 1: the latter excludes it from its scope, and this makes it possible. However, this authorisation remained theoretical, since, without a secure domestic legal framework, traders did not make the necessary investments to put it into practice. DSP 2, as well as DSP 1, excludes cashback from its application camp. As a result, the ratification bill is an opportunity to lay down rules of domestic law. If the latter are adopted, it will then be possible for a customer to pay by payment card for a property that is more expensive than its original value at a merchant, so that the merchant returns the currency in cash. Let's note that cashback is widespread in our neighbors and gives satisfaction. This measure will of course benefit consumers. Recall that in some areas of the territory, the network of ATMs and banking agencies is loosening. On the other hand, the customers of the merchants would thus carry out two transactions in one, namely a cash withdrawal and the payment of the good or service. For traders, cashback is an opportunity to seize, because it is optional and attractive. In any case, the time has come to supervise him, as he has been authorised since 2009. I come to the last point of my speech. The DSP 2 and the transposition order effectively reconcile the objectives of modernising the market for payment and consumer protection services. However, their scope is limited to payment accounts: other types of account, such as savings accounts, are not covered by the Directive. I am convinced that a discussion will have to take place to ensure that access to data from accounts other than payment accounts is also regulated. Currently, more than 80% of accounts aggregated by account information services are not payment accounts. The unregulated access system will therefore continue to apply to them. Such two-speed regulation is not satisfactory. However, the ratification bill cannot be the vehicle for extending the rules of the directive to other types of accounts. We will come back to that when the amendments are discussed. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of this ratification bill, we will have to ensure that it is properly implemented and that we begin to reflect on the extension of its scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u12	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u13	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the directive of 13 November 2007 on payment services in the internal market, known as DSP 1, marked the first major step towards the unification of the internal market in payment services; They were previously fragmented into as many markets as EU Member States. Almost ten years after its entry into force, it had become necessary to adapt the legal framework to changing technologies and consumer needs – for European directives, it still takes time. The text we are looking at today is not that technical. As the rapporteur has pointed out, it is in reality the daily life of each and every one of us that is concerned with the security of data. There is also a link between this text and the one on the protection of personal data that we examined this week. In just a few years, the global financial landscape has changed a lot. Under the impetus of actors offering new types of services, "fintech", banking practices have changed, resulting in legal uncertainties regarding the protection of users' personal data and the liability regimes of providers. In this context, the Directive of 25 November 2015, known as the DSP 2, allows the digital transfer of payment services to be accompanied. Essentially, it endorses the existence of new intermediaries, while providing a legal framework for their activities; It is necessary to regulate when new activities are emerging. The security of users will be enhanced by greater data protection. These will be communicated via interfaces, known as APIs, set up directly by credit institutions and in accordance with the standards laid down by the European Commission. Fintech will therefore be obliged to identify itself, via these platforms, with the manager, when they wish to access banking data. However, these provisions will only come into force after a transitional period of 18 months, i.e. August 2019. More secure information retrieval will allow customers of these new players to reduce the risk of a leak or theft of information. This will increase confidence in the use of this type of application. It will also be an opportunity. First, the use of an API should allow fintechs to be more competitive through the use of turnkey solutions prepared by credit institutions to access customer data. The entry into force of DSP 2 could also strengthen the links between fintech and banks – the relationship between these two types of actors has not always been easy – by developing exchanges and partnerships between them. However, I would like to draw the Government's attention to a number of issues, which need to be monitored. Will access to data via APIs allow fintechs to obtain the same information they have access to today? Will the quality of access to information be the same? It will also be necessary for the Government to be careful that there are no technical barriers to the development of fintech players. The data protection imperative is essential, but it must not be at the expense of an ecosystem in which France draws its pin from the game – we are pretty good in this area. I would also like to point out a paradox in the guidelines adopted by the directive, the measures of which are only applicable to payment accounts. Savings accounts and insurance contracts, for example, do not fall within its scope. Access to these accounts will therefore continue to be unsecured. The rapporteur quoted the figures; That paradox must be overcome and the Government must work with the Commission to remedy it. The question of how to access financial data arises in the same way with regard to these other accounts ; In order for the aggregation of the various accounts to take place under satisfactory conditions, the whole subject must be dealt with. The Government has tabled an amendment to reduce the transitional period by eight months, for entry into force in January or February 2019. I am not sure that there is such an urgent need to shorten the transitional period for payment accounts, knowing that access continues to be done by an unsecured technique for other account types. French overtransposition has lived.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u14	Oh, yes, it's over!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u15	It must no longer be given a future, whatever the subject. So let's not start making exceptions. We know our taste for them; The risk is that there's only that. Let's not overtranspose; On the contrary, let us transpose this directive in the same way as other European states have done – even if we need to legislate very quickly in this area, at European level. The next major step forward must therefore be the extension of the scope of the Directive to savings accounts and insurance contracts. With the rise of mobile banks and the arrival of telecommunications operators on the market, the trend towards multi-accounting will continue to grow. Madam Secretary of State, you will have to raise the issue at European level. How do you intend to do that? I would also like to say a word about cashback. The merchant will be called upon to replace the ticket distributor in a number of areas – not in the most equipped ones, but in rural areas. This already exists in other countries. Attention, however, to the security situation. As the merchant will own more cash, he will be more exposed to assaults.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u16	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u17	This risk should not be underestimated. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM group, as well as on some benches of the REM group]] In conclusion, DSP 2 is an essential step in the creation of a European Digital Single Market. It is a beginning to respond to the challenges posed by the emergence of innovative services, the rapid growth of electronic payments and the steady pace of technical innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u18	Intervention full of common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u19	We come to the general discussion. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u20	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, we are dealing with the bill ratifying the order transposing the European directive on payment services in the internal market. First of all, I would like to address the conditions for transposing this directive, because they raise a few questions, which were legitimately relayed during the work in committee. The Assembly is today called upon to ratify a European directive adopted in November 2015, two and a half years later. This delay is too long, given the evolution of a changing market, the new behaviour to be regulated and the data protection requirements of users. It also gives the impression that the legislator always has a delay in defining a concrete and ambitious framework for a developing economic sector, to the detriment of users, consumers, those who need a protective framework. This is regrettable, particularly in view of the important debates that have taken place at European level. The transposition of a European directive two and a half years after its adoption is a problem, whatever the subject, whatever the subject. On the other hand, the conditions for this transposition do not simplify the work of parliamentarians on a complex subject, but, it was recalled, decisive for everyday life. Our group is traditionally opposed to the authorizations given to the Government to legislate by ordinances, because this procedure de facto deprives national representation of a substantial debate on the subject, which we regret. I come to the substance of this bill, to say the least, technical, but decisive, as I said, especially for our fellow citizens. It therefore transposes the European Directive, which is undergoing a major overhaul of the regulatory framework for payment services in the European internal market. As our rapporteur's work points out, this second Directive on payment services replaces the DSP 1 which, adopted in 2007, had harmonised the rules applicable to payment services in the Member States, laid down information requirements and defined the rights and obligations of payment service users and providers. A single licence had been introduced for all payment service providers foreign to the activity of receiving deposits or issuing electronic money. Finally, this first directive, of 2007, established the end of the banking monopoly with the creation of the legal category of payment institutions, which is usually legal persons providing payment services such as the payment and withdrawal of cash and the operation of a payment account. The new 2015 directive, which we are talking about today, transforms this legislative framework with the integration into the monetary and financial code of two new payment services, changes to the authorisation regime, new rights and obligations for users and the strengthening of the powers of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, the CPRA, to supervise cross-border activities. I would like, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, to draw your attention to this last point. It seems to us important to give the prudential authority new prerogatives in order to "supervise" the economic activities of these entities and to anticipate at best possible disturbances in financial stability: this is a necessity. But what additional human and financial means will the CPRA have to accomplish these new missions? In this regard, allow us to express our concern about the reduction in the CAPR ceiling, which was voted at the end of last year in the budget discussions. This decline is cause for concern when new tasks are assigned to the CPRA and prudential requirements vis-à-vis banks are reinforced more generally. Another point of vigilance is data protection. In the course of the work at European level, this issue has been the subject of intense debate. There is no doubt that progress remains to be made to ensure the maximum protection and confidentiality of users' data. The project is therefore still ongoing. I will conclude by expanding my remarks, through two specific points on which we, Members of Parliament of all sensitivities, will have to consider in the coming months. First of all, there is undoubtedly a need to strengthen the framework for bank charges. Transparency could also be considerably improved so that users are fully informed of the real costs of banking services. At present, the gap between the costs paid by some of our fellow citizens, particularly the most fragile, and the real cost of certain banking operations remains enormous: the European Central Bank has indicated this on several occasions in its work. We must therefore make clear progress in this area, on which Communist Members will have the opportunity to make proposals in the coming months. Our priority is also to ensure universal access to a bank account with a payment card, and to pursue a proactive policy to combat over-indebtedness. To be integrated, having a deposit account is an absolute prerequisite. The whole population, regardless of the financial situation of the person concerned, must be able to dispose of it: this is a necessity, a fundamental right which, in our view, must be enshrined in the law. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] On the other hand, the situation with regard to over-indebtedness remains largely worrying, although the number of persons concerned is decreasing, according to the Bank of France's latest survey, published this week. The survey shows that over-indebtedness is increasingly affecting the most vulnerable populations, including isolated adults and those with incomes below SMIC or social minima. Ladies and gentlemen, this shift in the spiral of over-indebtedness has dramatic consequences for all of these people and their families. This situation calls for reaction. So our group will make proposals, again, to break the mechanics that drive too many of our fellow citizens into over-indebtedness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u22	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u23	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the scope of this text, which transposes the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market, known as DSP 2, is at first glance technical, even technical, and confined to the financial sector. This bill is in fact a major transformation that affects all of us, citizens and consumers. The activities of payment services in Europe have indeed been profoundly transformed by technological and digital innovation. This has led to a lack of harmonisation of the rules applicable to these services, hindering the completion of the internal market, to the detriment of the protection of the European consumer. Of course, and I want to make it clear, this text aims to stimulate competition, already at work, in the sector of means of payment, but only to the extent that it will enable the consumer to take the best advantage of innovations and the market. In this respect, the DSP 2 Directive is a protective compromise between market opening and consumer data protection: it guarantees both the best-known commercial and the best-known security. This last point is crucial from a European but also a French perspective, as we adopted, last night, the articles of the draft law on the protection of personal data defended by Nicole Belloubet, Minister of Justice, which we will solemnly vote on next Tuesday. Some will say that we go too far, others, not enough. We will answer them that all actors in the payment industry, from the bank to the endtech and the consumer, will find in this text an advantage and will thus enter into the digital transformation of this activity with more serenity. Let us illustrate this compromise in concrete terms. So far fintech customers had to provide their access codes to online banks to benefit from their services, especially for account aggregation. To access their customers' banking data, fintechs themselves were forced to pass themselves on to their bank's website, according to the technique of unidentified direct access, or web scraping. In the absence of regulation, this practice presents worrying frailties in terms of data security. Under these circumstances, DSP 2 has created a legal status for payment initiation service and account information service activities. It is accompanied by the obligation for banks to make available the necessary information. These transmissions will be done through secure interfaces, APIs. The practice of unidentified web scraping will be prohibited. However, it is not a question of undressing Peter to dress Paul. Banks will now have the opportunity to build on this data in order to improve the knowledge of their customers, including by developing new services. Some of them have already started this work. Furthermore, DSP 2 reinforces in more than one way the rights of users of payment services, since it reduces from 150 to 50 euros the ceiling on the amount that providers can impose on their customers in case of fraudulent use of their payment instrument: this is an important step forward. This directive also reinforces the security requirements for access to accounts, and strong authentication will combine several identification factors. Finally, in order to further deepen the European internal market, DSP 2 reinforces the rules of supervision and cross-border cooperation. Communication between the different supervisory authorities of the Member States will therefore be made systematic. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Some, I said, say that this text goes too far, others, not enough; Some say that he forgets virtual currencies and that, therefore, he should have already been adapted. We know, however, that it is the result of a compromise and progress achieved in 2015, and that it cannot be the final point of our work. At first glance, technical or even technical, he therefore participates fully in the spirit that drives this majority and will inspire our work in the coming years: to support the French in the great technological and digital transformations of their daily lives and the economy, always protecting them and guaranteeing their security and information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u24	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u25	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen,'man and his safety must be the first concern of any technological adventure': let us bear in mind this warning from Albert Einstein, who must constantly enlighten the legislator that we are. In the field of payment services, even more so than in many other sectors, technological innovations have flourished, and we cannot but rejoice that they have facilitated the lives of the consumers we are. However, such upheavals are not without implications, and we must also adapt our legislation and harmonise it at European level to serve the interests of the users we are. Indeed, whether in the context of the tasks of the public authorities or of the work on the harmonisation of technical standards, the European level plays an increasing role in the definition of security rules for means of payment. It is in this context that European law has endeavoured to propose the conditions for an internal market in the field of payment services, a sensitive area in essence, since it directly affects the purse of our compatriots, our wallet. In 2007, DSP 1 therefore put an end to the banking monopoly in payment services; DSP 2 of November 2015, updates existing standards and renews the legal framework for these services. In particular, this Directive confers legal status on two emerging players: payment initiation service providers and account information service providers. We are therefore invited this morning to ratify an order transposing this directive into our law. This text, as has been said, is undeniably technical and opaque, so I would like to congratulate our rapporteur and her administrators on their work. But it will, above all, have very concrete repercussions for our fellow citizens. The Republicans will therefore vote for it, as it contains undeniable progress in protecting users of payment services and does not pose any major risk. The target directive measures the new problems highlighted by the various players in the sector, in particular those involved in web scraping. It is also praised by the world of fintech, which recognizes the quality of the work provided. The user must be able to benefit from more choice, more transparency in the field of information and more security and even more protection of his or her data, an important subject if it is and which we have before us, until yesterday, through a bill debated in our House. Finally, the new rules should substantially lower the level of the amount that payment service providers can impose on their customers in the event of fraudulent use of their payment instruments. You have told us, Madam Secretary of State, that the directive is very much expected, especially in the most isolated territories, where the means of payment dematerialised are indispensable. Nevertheless, the deployment of broadband infrastructure must be ensured throughout the country, so that all our citizens can benefit from these new technologies. However, the 2015 directive, already dated, will have too little effect. Indeed, the long time of the legislation is disconnected from the short time of technological innovation. Innovation, because it aims to offer a major comparative advantage over competition, is ephemeral, if not very quickly overtaken by the frantic pace of research, which leads to new discoveries and new innovations. Technology and new uses will therefore always be ahead of the legislator we are. In this respect, it is somewhat derisory to ask us to transpose a directive which is more than two years old, even eagerly. Two years is an eternity in terms of innovation and technology! Madam rapporteur, when, like some of my colleagues, I pointed out to you in committee that the deadline laid down in the directive had already been exceeded, you told us that the Government would table an amendment at the sitting to reduce the transitional period and speed up transposition, and the Secretary of State has just confirmed this. If, as currently drafted, the measures are to be implemented in August 2019, this amendment would reduce the transitional period by eight months, bringing the text into force to January or February 2019. But even with these eight months less, more than three years will have elapsed between the date of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 and its transposition into French law. Our colleague Charles de Courson pointed out in committee that bitcoin does not fall within the scope of the directive, while virtual currencies and the irrational, partly irrational, enthusiasm for them create undeniable risks, which we cannot hide. The Committee on Finance has launched a fact-finding mission on the subject – this is obviously an excellent initiative of its chairman. However, it is feared that the virtual currencies have disappeared or been replaced by another crypto-technical UFO when the latter makes its findings. Progress also seems to be needed to strengthen user authentication in electronic payments, which is a very good thing. As such, in November 2017, following exchanges between the European Commission and the European Banking Authority, it appears that a delegated regulation is being considered by the Commission without it being published for the time being. This text could give binding force to the technical standards proposed by the European Banking Authority for enhanced authentication. Madam rapporteur, you have told us in committee that you will give us details of this delegated regulation and its impact on the subject we are interested in today. You did it today, which I thank you for. Of course, as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance pointed out, we must avoid overtransposition of directives. We must remain vigilant in this area, because if overtransposing a directive is sometimes tempting, we often regret it afterwards. Fortunately, this is not the case in this case. On the other hand, we will not be able to save money from further reflection at European level, where it is to be carried out, and to envisage, probably very quickly, a DSP 3. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and NG groups as well as on several benches of the REM group]] For the time being, Members of the Republican Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u26	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u27	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of hyperconnection, the law on the protection of personal data and against artificial intelligence or cyber-malveillance, very real, through this text of ratification of the order transposing the European directive on payment services in the internal market, Europe is protective and France is also free. Let us now make a small reference to history in this rather technical debate. With this text, several centuries later, we make Benjamin Franklin lie, who said: "A people willing to sacrifice a little freedom for a little security does not deserve either, and ends up losing both. » With this text, we bring more freedom and security and we win on both sides. Just over a year after the enabling law incorporated into the law on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life, known as Sapin 2, we now have to ratify the order transposing the European directive on payment services in the internal market. More commonly referred to as DSP 2, this directive follows the 2007 DSP 1 Directive by providing payment account data to aggregators and payment initiators free of charge. It thus makes it possible to harmonise the interpretations and applications of this legislation in the Member States, to extend the scope of the DSP 1 and, thus, to fill the gaps in terms of standardisation and interoperability. Above all, it ensures that new types of payment services are covered by the regulatory framework. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will obviously support this text...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u28	Like everyone else!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u29	... and would like to see an accurate assessment of its impact, particularly on two axes. Firstly, on network security issues and on account access systems, so that France remains among the safest countries in this field and can take account of rapid developments in cybersecurity, as bank data is extremely sensitive. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be very attentive and united on this point. Let us never forget that the aim of this text is to ensure that consumers are protected that these new consumption patterns can make them very vulnerable. The second focuses on the financial impacts of this new framework – those of the liability regime, which places the cost of repair on banks, especially in cases of fraud, such as the free opening of data, free of charge being acquired for aggregators and payment initiators but not for banks that have developed the secure data exchange systems called APIs. The question of setting up a fee for the development and maintenance of this system might indeed arise. I will go even further: it must take place as soon as the evaluation phase is completed, because efforts and costs must be shared. Let us be careful that the consumer is not the only one to contribute, at the end of the chain. Without giving in to the temptation of overtransposition, we will examine the conclusions of these evaluations which, we hope, may at least feed into the debate on a possible extension of this opening to savings accounts, which can be addressed by our colleagues Barrot and Bourlanges. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to an amendment which, because it concerns the opening up to traders of the possibility of returning money in cash, known as cashback, affects the daily lives of our city centres and city centres. The rapporteur pointed out that the network of vending machines was heterogeneous in our territories. Its closure sometimes kills the whole life of a city centre...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u30	From a village!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u31	... from a village, even from a city centre or from a neighbourhood. Madam rapporteur, you have made this balance clear. Yes, it is necessary to frame this provision, but it will bring a breath and a dynamic to these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u32	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Access to currencies, as it maintains a social link, allows all our territories, but especially our city centres and city centres, to continue to live and be dynamic. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to draw your attention to this amendment, despite its technicality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u34	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u35	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of this bill is a further step towards the necessary renewal of the European legal framework in the face of the development of new technologies and practices in the field of online payment services. The previous directive, known as DSP 1, had harmonised the rules applicable to payment services in the Member States. The aim was to ensure coordination of fragmented national provisions, to ensure market access for new payment service providers, to set information requirements and to define the rights and obligations of payment service users and providers. The Directive introduced a novelty, the single authorisation, for all payment service providers foreign to the activity of receiving deposits or issuing electronic money. To this end, it has created a new legal category, payment institutions, thus ending the monopoly of banking institutions in this area. However, the sector's innovations have begun to sustain the body of European standards governing it, and have encouraged a necessary renovation. Indeed, the emergence of new types of payment services and the rapid growth of electronic and mobile payments tested the rules that were in force at the time. The development of certain actors in the fintech world raises a number of legal questions, which we must answer. The activities of payment initiation services or account information services require access to certain data from payment service users, which implies the existence of secure identification channels. Indeed, at present, most payment initiation service providers whose activity is to initiate a payment order at the request of the service user, directly access their customers' online bank accounts by making themselves known to them. They thus use the so-called unidentified direct access method or unidentified web scraping. This situation presents many legal frailties, particularly with regard to the liability regime and therefore to consumer protection. It is the banking data of consumers that are involved in this area, which poses a significant and urgent problem of securing both technical and legal security. The possible interception of such data by third parties would have an extremely harmful effect on consumers. According to a study by the Observatoire de la sécurité des moyens de payement, in 2016 in France, more than 400 million euros were stolen as a result of the use of bank data, representing more than 1 million fraudulent transactions. The web scraping method has therefore extended the scope of action of people wishing to intercept user data as it does not submit them to any identification request. Against this background of concern, no consumer protection regulations have been introduced. It is therefore necessary to establish a legal framework designed, on the one hand, to protect consumers by securing their personal data in order to avoid fraudulent use and, on the other hand, to limit the scope of these new services while ensuring and strengthening consumer rights. This will require new rules to address these regulatory gaps while ensuring greater legal clarity and consistent application of the legislative framework across the European Union. The new DSP 2 directive is in line with DSP 1, which it repeals. It adapts the European legal framework for these services to developments in the sector and pursues the general objective of achieving the internal market. It also lays down rules governing access to payment service activity, supervision of payment service providers, technical arrangements for payment transactions, and the rights and obligations of the parties to a payment service. It also aims to promote the use of safer and fairer electronic payment services, in particular by establishing rules between all payment service providers and by targeting third-party providers, such as PayPal, which, unlike banks, do not keep payment accounts. These suppliers will now be required to register and will be supervised as a payment institution. Finally, they will be subject to the same security rules as other payment service providers. Security of payments is also a central element of this revision proposal. The latter improves the security of all payment service providers by generalizing strong authentication for online transactions. Consumers will be better protected against fraud, potential abuse and payment incidents. Finally, this proposal strengthens consumers' rights in the event of transfers or transfers of funds outside Europe or payments made in the currency of a non-EU country. In addition, it provides for the prohibition of most card payment overloads, such as the additional costs charged by most air operators when ticketing. Traders will always be able to charge consumers, but these fees will not exceed the costs incurred by traders in using payment cards. Madam Secretary of State, in this and other areas, including bank charges, which have already been mentioned, I would like to point out the gap that can separate hexagonal practices from ultramarine practices, a problem to which I am very sensitive as a Member of Parliament for New Caledonia. The Law on Real Equality Overseas had stressed the need to check very carefully that tariffs did not drift far beyond the legal limits. In France alone, there are already eight start-ups offering a payment service, and there are some leaders in this sector at European level. There is an increasing number of users and demand for these new services, especially for younger generations. Through these services, they can manage their finances more directly and more easily by having access to more information without the need for systematic recourse to their banks. The new normative context aims to accompany these developments and to encourage new fintech companies to continue to innovate ever more. However, some points which I believe are essential are not addressed in the directive. It is clear that, in general, data protection is not sufficient and that its legal framework, although necessary, is difficult to establish. As is often the case, the deadline for transposition of the Directive is long, even though the thousands of people who use these payment services are exposed daily to the risk of fraud. I would point out, after others, that the directive was adopted by the European Parliament on 25 November 2015. More than two years later, are the rules it sets still in line with the current reality of the field? Moreover, in addition to payment services, many other areas could be better regulated. I am thinking in particular of electronic or virtual currencies, such as bitcoin. They are not mentioned in the directive: does this mean that all these forms of private money can continue to thrive in general indifference? However, it is quite surprising to transpose a directive that aims – rightly – to secure transactions without being interested in virtual money. We are aware, Madam Secretary of State, of the need to avoid the pitfall of overtransposition which ultimately proves to be counterproductive. But it is necessary, for the safety of our citizens, to look at each of the areas that require regulation. With this directive, however, we regulate only a small part of the system. That is why our group has tabled an amendment on electronic or virtual currencies. In summary, the order introduces strict security requirements, tends to increase consumers' rights and prohibits the charging of supplements when they use these rights, within the very specific framework of the French payment services market. Beyond the reservation I have just made, the IDU Group, acting and independent, recognises that this text is necessary, and will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u36	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u37	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the House is asked to consider a bill containing six articles which, in order to make it simple, ratifies an order which itself transposes a European directive on payment services in the internal market, the so-called DSP2 directive. As far as the timetable is concerned, the deadlines have been met. Article 115 of the DSP2 requires Member States to adopt and publish before 13 January 2018 the provisions necessary to comply with this Directive. Article 70 of the Act of 9 December 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of economic life, known as the Sapin 2 Act, authorized the Government to transpose this directive by order, with two clarifications: first, the Government had eighteen months from the enactment of the Sapin 2 Act to legislate by order; Second, a ratification bill was to be tabled in Parliament within three months of the publication of the order. Since the Order is dated August 9, 2017 and comes into force in large part on January 13, 2018, and this bill was introduced on November 7, 2017, we can only note that the schedule has been met. As for the substance, the DSP2 has a clear objective: to support the development of cheaper, safer and more innovative payment services. The DSP2 is based on a double observation by the European Union. First of all, in recent years we have experienced an unprecedented development of innovative means of payment that has rendered the DSP1 obsolete. I am thinking, for example, of payment service providers, such as Paypal, or information service providers, who usually take the form of fintech. Their emergence calls for the implementation of modernised regulation. In this context, Brussels considered that it was necessary to surround new protections for users' data and that there were margins of progress in limiting overbilling in payment transactions and bank charges in the event of fraudulent use of a means of payment. The DSP2 is therefore based on two legs: the innovative development of payment systems – not to mention the protection of consumer data – and the limitation of invoicing and deductibles paid by consumers. With regard to the invoicing and franchising component, the New Left Group believes that the DSP2 represents an undeniable step forward. I am thinking, for example, of the ban on overbilling, i.e. the application of surcharges in the case of payment by credit card, both in-store and online, or the reduction of the remaining deductible from 150 to 50 euros in the case of fraudulent payment by card before opposition. According to the European Commission, this directive should save more than €550 million a year for European citizens. On the innovation and regulation side, the New Left Group is in favour of a new regulatory framework taking into account the development of new payment services. In this regard, we welcome the Government's amendment introducing a mechanism to regulate the transitional period between the entry into force of the Order on 13 January 2018 and the entry into force of the delegated act adopted under Article 98 of the DSP2 on the arrangements for secure communication between payment account-containing institutions, their users and, respectively, payment initiation service providers and account information service providers. However, in this area, our only compass is the protection of consumers and their data. Indeed, the obligation on banks to provide payment service providers and information service providers with access to their customers' data, once they have given their consent, requires effective means of control, otherwise serious abuses could arise, particularly in the area of bank fraud. It is therefore necessary to give the national supervisor, who in France is the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, the CPRA, the necessary resources for this purpose. However, as a reminder, Article 65 of the Initial Finance Act for 2018 sets the ceiling for CPRA's employment authorizations at 1050 full-time equivalents worked, compared with 1121 ETPT in Article 58 of the Initial Finance Act for 2017, which represents a 7% decrease in the Authority's resources. In the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur announced that "ACPR is committed to reallocating its resources to implement the directive". This answer is not such as to reassure us. Will this reallocation be sufficient? Is that to say that the CAPR has so far had a surplus of resources? In conclusion, the New Left Group supports the ratification of the August 2017 Order, which faithfully transposes the DSP2. However, it calls on the Government to provide national representation with all guarantees regarding the means granted to the CPRA to carry out its new tasks in the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u38	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us seeks to ratify an order of 9 August 2017 transposing a European directive dating from November 2015. Its objective is to improve the functioning of the internal market in payment services by repealing the current Directive and replacing it with another Directive with a wider scope. With the emergence of new types of payment services and the rapid growth of electronic and mobile payments, the retail payment market has indeed undergone significant technical innovations. These innovations test the current legislative framework. In this context, the Payment Services Directive is progressing on the following points. It tends to require payment service providers to adopt secure communication methods. For example, the aim is to provide more secure text transfer services and to tighten up consumer authentication rules for payments in excess of EUR 30. The Directive also strengthens consumer protection in the event of suspected fraud: consumers will be able to demand reimbursement from a payment service the day after a fraudulent transaction. It also regulates aggregators, these applications that offer us a unique interface to manage accounts domiciled in several banks. Today, as we know, these applications will illegally search for information on banks' websites using customer identifiers. The directive will always allow this practice, but from now on, subject to the client's authorization. The Directive makes the information requirements for users of payment services more stringent: they will have to receive clear and concise information on termination fees, deadlines or the different costs involved. Finally, the Directive will prohibit certain practices, such as additional charges for payments on the Internet with a credit card. As we can see, this directive has several positive aspects: it strengthens supervision and regulation for all payment providers in the European Union and diminishes the monopoly of large banks in this area. That is why we will vote in favour of it. Nevertheless, we have several remarks and warnings to make. First, the scope of the text should not be overestimated. Last January, Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President of the Commission responsible for Financial Stability, Financial Services and the Capital Markets Union, declared that the Directive, by facilitating payments and transactions, "enhancing the economy and growth". It's giving him too much virtue! Without an increase in investment or purchasing power through the distribution of wealth, it will be very difficult to promote economic activity on a sustainable basis. Today, the European Central Bank is contributing billions of euros to banks and the financial sphere. Moreover, one of the Commission's main objectives is to continue financial deregulation by developing financial markets in the 28 countries of the European Union through the Union of Capital Markets. None of this goes in the direction of reviving activity; On the contrary, it is preparing for the next financial crisis. That is little to say that this Order will not solve this problem. Even more boring is the question of the practical possibilities of applying this directive, which we are warning you about. In the absence of means of regulation, serious abuses could arise, for example in the area of bank fraud. In France, as you know, the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, the ACPR, will be responsible for monitoring the new operators. However, in the 2018 Finance Act, the majority set the CAPRA employment ceiling at 1050 full-time equivalents, which corresponds to a 7% reduction in its workforce. As a result, the actual means available to CPRA to carry out new monitoring missions may be questioned if fewer personnel are available. This issue has already been raised in committee. The rapporteur then replied that the CPRA had committed itself to reallocating internal resources for this new mission. So what are the other missions currently carried out by the CPRA, all of which are very important – they are the supervision of the banking and insurance sector, which includes a customer protection mission – which will suffer from this reallocation? If we give new missions to the CPRA, we need to increase our human resources, not reduce them! On the other hand, the directive is far from sufficient in several respects, and first of all in the area of consumer rights protection. In the text, it is specified that in case of hacking of his account, the user of a payment service will still be able to pay up to 50 euros, even in cases of serious negligence on his part: this is much for a large number of French modest. It is up to the payment service to ensure the security of its device, not the customers, who are obliged to use it! Furthermore, the ban on additional charges for Internet payments does not solve the much wider problem of bank charges. Invoicing by banks for bank account management or payment incidents is excessive, and these costs are increasingly burdening the poor, as highlighted in recent studies by the National Union of Families and 60 million consumers. Finally, we must remember that the means of on-line payments, referred to here, are unfortunately not accessible to all our citizens. However, developments in our society have now made bankarization inevitable. France is therefore committed to banking inclusion. We could use this directive on payment services to provide citizens below the poverty line with the right to open a free bank account with a payment card. Banks have a mission of general interest. We could forget it, given their behavior... Our programme calls for the creation of a public banking service. It is this notion of general interest that must guide all financial regulations, and we are far from it with this directive. But because it represents progress, we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u40	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u41	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u42	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, with the emergence of new types of payment services and the rapid growth of electronic and mobile payments, the retail payments market has seen significant technical innovations in recent years, which put the current framework to the test. The DSP1 directive on means of payment dates back to 2007. At the time, this was an important text, which allowed for the introduction of a single licence for all foreign payment service providers. It thus enabled coordination of national provisions, which were then fragmented, and guaranteed market access for new payment service providers. It is now a matter of deepening these provisions in order to accompany recent developments in the sector. For example, for various online payment services, this is nothing less than securing their activities through a new common legal framework. This is particularly the case for account information service providers, applications that provide an overview of their financial situation on a single interface, by aggregating the information in their various accounts, and payment initiation service providers, which allow consumers to pay for their online purchase while giving the trader the assurance that the payment has been made. These two types of services have so far used a fragile, legally speaking method of extracting data held by banks by making themselves known to their customers, with their consent. From now on, these players will have their own legal status, with specific licensing, registration and liability rules, but will also benefit from the obligation for banks to provide them with certain information. In short, these are new duties, but also new rights. This new directive achieves a threefold objective, first economic, then technical and legal, but also political. First of all, this directive complies with new uses of digital services, not by creating new administrative constraints or standards but by adapting to these new uses already existing and by providing a framework for their development and expansion. Secondly, it provides better protection for consumers, for example by supplementing the rules for the authorisation of payment institutions or by guaranteeing a right to information on a number of subjects, in particular security incidents which could have an impact on the financial interests of users. Finally, it sets out a common framework for the whole of the European Union, in line with the philosophy of our single area, which is that of the free movement of persons but also of goods and services. So this is an excellent example of a Europe such as we, in the running Republic, defend it: a Europe that sets a framework for freedom and protection – because these two objectives have never been contradictory; a Europe that knows how to introduce standards where they are necessary, where they ensure fair and equal competition between economic actors, while guaranteeing the most legitimate rights of citizens, without excessive administrative zeal; A Europe that works in the shadows, sometimes on arid and technical subjects, but always at the service of the rights and interests of citizens and our businesses. This order is also in line with our demand, reiterated in this House in recent debates on the draft law serving a trustworthy society, not to over-transpose European directives. This is a line to which the Government and the majority have drawn during these discussions and which will continue to guide our action in future transpositions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I would like to thank our rapporteur, Nadia Hai, who has done an important work of deciphering and pedagogic work on this complex and technical subject but nevertheless crucial for a whole part of the new digital economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u43	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u44	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today's discussion concerns the ratification of an order transposing into French law a European directive on payment services known as DSP2, which has repealed the first directive in 2007. As my colleagues have explained, the aim of this text is in particular to provide a framework for the activity of new players in financial digital: the providers of account information services, sometimes referred to as information aggregators. These are fintech start-ups such as "Managing my account", "Budgea", "Bankin" or "Linxo", which claim more than 4 million users. These providers make it possible to manage its accounts in the best possible way, by aggregating the information of its various financial institutions. The current environment is very favourable for bank account aggregators. The Macron Law on Banking Mobility, implemented in February 2017, led to a multi-banking of the French. Half of them now have accounts in several banking institutions. This multi-banking has generated new interest: to consult all its accounts in the same place; and also to compare the various bank charges in full transparency. To use the application of the information aggregators, simply download it and then provide the access codes of its bank. The goal is simple: centralize all bank accounts in a single interface and quickly know their balance. It thus becomes possible to track its finances in real time using expenditure statistics, graphs or alerts, as soon as a levy takes place. Each of these applications has specialized in a specific field. The new players in financial digital may also be providers of payment initiation services, which give assurance to the online trader that the payment has been initiated by the buyer. The transposition of this directive, which was excellently presented earlier by our rapporteur, is in line with the philosophy of our majority: to free and protect. Unlocking is about fostering innovation and competition. It is to allow our internal market to welcome new technologies that meet new needs. It is also to make consumption patterns that are a success in other countries accessible to the French: this is the case of payment initiation service providers in Germany and the cashback system, which has become commonplace in the Anglo-Saxon countries and defended and supported by a majority of actors. It allows, among other things, access to cash directly to the local shops caisse, which is a convenience for urban dwellers and young people, but is becoming a necessity in rural areas, where ticket machines become more sparse, for the elderly and with reduced mobility. To protect is to ensure that these new practices are framed and that the interests of our citizens are best protected. For example: strong authentication for online payments of more than 30 euros in order to reduce fraud; the obligation for aggregators to obtain the user's banking information directly from the banking institution via a secure communication channel, when the customer was previously required to communicate his personal data to the aggregator. Until then, many customers took the risk of providing their IDs and passwords, accepting the general terms and conditions of use of the bank or aggregator – which allowed them to bear full responsibility for fraud. This refers us to the problem of personal data and extends the debate that ended last night in the Chamber. Sensitive personal data are certainly better protected with this text, but what about the gold mine of information that can be drawn from the reading of a bank account? Today, account information service providers use the sale of this customer data as an additional source of remuneration, which allows them to offer a free service. It would be a shame if this practice were to be spread to banks that do not currently sell their customers' data. In this regard, I will table an appeal amendment to secure personal data that may be of commercial interest to providers. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This problem could arise even more strongly if, as is assumed, GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – took advantage of open banking, the "open bank", to use data for commercial purposes. We therefore need to regulate more. Therefore, this text will be supplemented by the EU Data Protection Regulation, which will soon enter into force. We have an opportunity to discuss it again this morning, and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u45	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u46	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, many of the comments made on this subject this morning, I have chosen to give you testimony. Like more and more of our fellow citizens, I appreciate the innovations that promise to simplify my life and, like many, I am tempted to give in to the sirens of these new applications called fintech, which offer you to simplify the management of your budget and your bank accounts. So I downloaded one of these apps – I chose a French one. I had to enter my email address and an eight-character password, including at least one digit and one letter. I chose Dominique3301: it's the number of my constituency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u47	[[Smile]] You didn't have to tell us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u48	Once my account is created, I'm offered to import my bank data. I select my bank from the proposed list. There are several of them, among French, German, English or Spanish banks – it must be said that the platform has some 2 million users in Europe. Then, the app offers me to enter the identifier and access code to my bank's platform. There, I hesitate... Am I not about to deliver to an application downloaded free of charge on the internet those accesses my bank keeps telling me that they are strictly personal to me? After all, it's kind of like I'm delivering my credit card code! This means that the application will connect in my name to my accounts. But if a fraudulent banking transaction is carried out on my account, what will be my recourse capabilities? Since I'm apparently not the only one to question myself before jumping, the app introduced a link to its page: "Your application is safe and secure. Find out more. I click, and fall on a list of commitments intended to reassure me: approval by the Banque de France, some of the most efficient encryption technologies, the absence of visible bank data or even recognized partners... One of the assertions draws my attention: it states that the application is regulated by the European Directive on payment services number 2, the DSP2. Here we are! I assume that until we have voted in this House for the transposition of this European directive, I will take the risk of using a practical application. This is a reality: the law we are looking at will, for example, make it possible to secure access to my bank data, clarifying the identification of the person who connects to it. Moreover, fintechs will need to connect to an interface created by banks to access our data. Suspicious practices will become illegal. These applications will have to comply with more demanding, defined and controlled security standards with strong authentication. It will always be better than Dominique3301... The provider will intervene in a legal framework that will give him responsibility to the users. Thus, if I encounter a problem, I could speak to a recognized interlocutor. Other provisions will also govern these innovations; I will therefore be reassured, like many of my fellow citizens. I told you, as a citizen, I love the innovation that simplifies my life. As an elected candidate, I measure the full potential of the development of these technologies. Thanks to this law, we will allow our French fintech – and the application that I have downloaded seems to me to be particularly effective – to grow, to export to other European markets, to innovate again by offering new features. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and NG groups]] Framework and secure these uses, strengthen our economic actors: let's not hesitate, let's do it, quickly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u49	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u50	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u51	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 1. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u52	The aim of this amendment is to draw a clear legal distinction between the use of cash and the use of electronic money. Electronic money has been regulated in Europe since 2009; the Directive which deals with it has been transposed into French law by the Act of 28 January 2013. Electronic money is therefore now defined. However, its legal framework is always associated with that of cash, even though the two currencies are completely different, which is underlined by the monetary and financial code. Indeed, electronic money is not physical, unlike cash or scriptural money – the bank and postal cheque, promissory notes or the bill of exchange. E-money movements are fully traceable and identifiable, which is not the case for cash. In comparison to cash and cheques, electronic money provides many benefits to cardholders or traders. It contributes to the dematerialization of the economy, the fluidity of transactions and the reduction of costs, which is not the case for cash. Finally, electronic money is regulated by a number of laws and regulations, which are to a much lesser extent valid for cash. For these different reasons, the use of cash is preferred for any tax evasion activity or for any illegal activity financing, which is absolutely impossible with electronic money. Since the facts make a clear distinction between e-money and cash, it is therefore necessary to adapt the law and remove this assimilation from the former to the latter. Scriptural money is legally distinguished, and electronic money should also be distinguished. This involves innovation and the promotion of secure, fast, transparent and much less costly payment tools for both society and economic actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u53	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u54	Mr de Courson, your amendment, which seeks to draw a legal distinction between the use of cash and electronic money, asks me first of all about the form: its second part could be more precise, even if I welcome the work of your staff in drafting. In substance, the regime applicable to electronic money is already separate from that applicable to cash. First of all, the payment ceilings are different: 1000 euros for cash, 3000 euros for electronic money. Electronic money institutions are subject to a specific regime of customer due diligence. Rules for the framework of the stored value are laid down; I invite you to consult Article D315-2 of the Monetary and Financial Code. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u55	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u56	Unfavorable opinion, too. As the rapporteur pointed out, electronic money is already the subject of a comprehensive legal regime under French law, designed to adapt its framework to its specificities. Indeed, it differs from species in its form of storage, and the risks of traceability warrant particular vigilance. That is why this specific regime has been drawn up in French law and this amendment does not seem relevant to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u57	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u58	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, we therefore agree! But I want to make it clear in the text. As I explained, there are currently a series of provisions specific to both forms of money, but this is not true for the whole of law. I would like to make this clear so as to encourage innovation in the field of electronic money. It is a principled position: to vote on this amendment does not eat bread, and we can then decline this specificity of electronic money in other texts. Since we agree on the substance, Madam rapporteur, why do you object to this provision?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u59	I don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u60	Minister, same question: why are you not in favour of it? It doesn't eat bread!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u61	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u62	Since it doesn't eat bread, it's pointless to say that, Monsieur de Courson! As I said, there are already provisions in the monetary and financial code...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u63	That is what I say in the explanatory memorandum to my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u64	So your amendment is not useful! That is why we maintain our unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u65	We must aim for simplification!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u66	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u67	I maintain my position. If we adopt this text, we will be able to separate the rules applicable to fiduciary or scriptural money on the one hand and electronic money on the other. This is an amendment in principle, which does not eat bread and whose content has begun to have applications, as you pointed out, Madam rapporteur, in your speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u68	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 6, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u69	I welcome the debate that I have been attending since the beginning of the session. Indeed, I am pleased to note the interest and attention paid to this technical text, but the provisions of which, as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance pointed out, will have very concrete implications for the daily lives of the French. As far as deadlines are concerned, which has given rise to some exaggerations in this House, I would remind you that the directive is due to enter into force in January 2018, which is a normal deadline. France has been working ahead of its transposition to make it known as early as August 2017 and to allow professionals time to prepare. Our country is therefore among the first in Europe to have organized for this change. In addition, one of the Government's amendments provides for the advanced entry into force of the technical standard for securing the transfer of information: here again, we are committed to speed. Corrected Amendment No 6 proposes the introduction of an additional article after Article 1, dedicated to the so-called cashback service through which cash can be delivered by the payee, at the request of the payer, in the course of a payment transaction. This service can, in theory, be proposed today by any economic actor, without any framework: in fact, the revised directive on payment services refers the setting of its terms and conditions to the States. It seems desirable to encourage the provision of this service by means of a clear and stable framework, which the associations of traders call for. In concrete terms, the beneficiaries of payment transactions – traders – could propose the issuance of cash on the occasion of the purchase of goods or services, if the payer so requests during the cash transaction. As I said in the introduction, this practice is widespread abroad. It exists in many of our neighbours: Germany, Belgium, Italy, Spain and the United States. This service will benefit consumers by expanding the range of services they can access and responding to the isolation of the most remote territories where access to distributors is complicated. Traders, for their part, expect better traffic in stores. The proposed amendment will both provide a readable and stable framework for traders, encourage a practice expected by consumers, and ensure the quality of cash flow throughout the country. By specifying the details of this movement, it will help to prevent the risk of money laundering. The amendment will also ensure that the consumer is properly informed when providing this service, which is particularly important in the case of a new practice in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u70	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u71	I am in favour of this amendment for a number of reasons, which I have detailed at length in my opening remarks. However, I would like to recall four points which I believe are essential. First of all, this amendment benefits consumers by reducing the number of transactions, since two operations can be carried out in one. It also benefits traders – I would like to remind them that it opens up a faculty to them, but in no way constitutes an obligation. The amendment only secures an authorised practice since DSP 1. Finally, this practice already exists in several countries where it works rather well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u72	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u73	You are right, Madam Minister: this directive will have an impact on the daily lives of our fellow citizens. But we must be aware that this impact will not be the same everywhere, nor will it always be positive. I would like to draw your attention to several dangers associated with the generalisation of cashback, which, as you said, the rapporteur, allows the consumer to withdraw cash at the same time as he makes a payment in a trade. We already know the consequences of rationalizing the presence of cash distributors in our communes, especially the smallest of them, those which no longer have a banking agency. The cashback will accentuate this dramatic and deadly movement. It can be a complement, at the margin, to very small sums, but not a substitute. You must be particularly vigilant in the face of three dangers. The first is the closure of small shops and consumer deportations in larger towns, linked to the disappearance of cash distributors. I am thinking of grocery stores or bistros that, in our small communes, represent both places of life and shops. The second danger relates to the discretion required to withdraw money; They should be able to make themselves in front of the machine, not in the eyes of the whole business or the whole village. Third danger, perhaps the most important one: how, Madam Minister, will you guarantee the safety of small traders, especially those most isolated, whose ticket machines you make? What is the limit on these operations? What kind of service can we have if the limit is too low? Anyway, who today wants to keep several thousand euros in cash in his caisses or on him? For the revitalization of our campaigns and for the safety of those who make them live, I ask you, minister, to take urgent measures complementary to those we are studying.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u74	This is the transposition of a directive!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u75	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u76	The Government's amendment is interesting, as it solves the problem of these entire areas where there is no ticket distributor. But, as the rapporteur pointed out, it would be interesting to know, Madam Minister, what the implementing decree will contain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u77	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u78	One of the difficulties is the non-mandatory nature of the provision. If I buy a caramel for a penny, I can't ask for a thousand euros! The amendment as drafted, however, makes it theoretically possible... Do you intend, through the decree, to establish a certain proportionality between the amount claimed in cashback and the amount of the payment? If you don't, you'll get the fudge! There is a second problem: one of the reasons for the disappearance of ticket distributors is that they are systematically attacked, especially when they are isolated. When banks install ticket machines, they face serious security problems – that's what Mr Di Filippo was talking about. Do you have any ideas to improve the security of this cashback system?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u79	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u80	I agree with the remarks made by my colleague from the Republican Group. If this possibility of withdrawing money was added to a regular banking network, then why not? But the problem is that there aren't any cash machines everywhere! Charles de Courson explained to us that precisely, the cashback will make it possible to compensate for the absence of a bank or distributor. This argument is not acceptable: we cannot remedy the inequalities suffered by the French, especially in rural areas, in the area of bank distributors and, a fortiori, banks, by making traders play the role of bank! In my opinion, this is not the way to go. This would only confirm the current situation, in which the mayors of small communes – and even municipalities with several thousand inhabitants – find it difficult to convince a bank to install a ticket distributor. They are forced to enter into a balance of power with the banks: this is not normal. Banks, normally, should be at the service of the general interest. All French should therefore have a minimum banking service, regardless of the profitability of any distributor. This cannot be replaced by a mechanism postponing the burden of distributing cash to traders. I understand that in theory this will be done on a voluntary basis. But you understand that in areas where it is already difficult to find cash, traders will not be able to refuse to provide this service. For all these reasons, we will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u81	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u82	A dispatch from Agence France-Presse, published this morning, reports the dismantling of an international bank card hacking network by the US justice system. We're in the middle of it! Some suspects are active in Europe, particularly in France. The financial stakes are significant: the total amount of flights would be half a billion dollars. The piracy device was set up by a Ukrainian. This case clearly shows, Madam Secretary of State, that we must go very quickly, because we are very quickly overwhelmed by cybercrime. We must also address these issues at European and international level: the victims of the network of criminals I have mentioned are all over the world. Perhaps you have any information on the number of French victims? In any case, I think that we must move quickly, on a global scale, to protect all users.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u83	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u84	We will of course vote in favour of this amendment, as it brings a start to solving an important problem. In less than six months, two ATM machines were abolished in my constituency. Two less distributors, in two different communes, this makes two markets in danger, two city centres threatened. This makes it very difficult for older people who are unable to go to another village to do their shopping because of the lack of a means of locomotion. Of course, cashback should not be a substitute for ticket distributors. We need banking agencies, with human beings, and ticket machines. But in the meantime, in a very pragmatic way, this possibility offered to traders will allow the elderly, in certain areas, to withdraw cash and thus to go to the market, to the butcher or to the baker. This will help to maintain true social cohesion in our city centres. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I can see the dangers that my colleagues have mentioned, but I will be very happy to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u85	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u86	I will also vote in favour of this amendment. However, I would like to point out some difficulties. Firstly, the security problems I have already mentioned, which Fabien Di Filippo has just recalled, must not be neglected. We can see that the trade is becoming more and more dangerous, simply because there is a cash register and people want to seize its contents. The more money in the cash register, the greater the risk. The practice of cashback will be a way of showing publicly that a trader has cash in his caisse, which will not fail to arouse lusts. What accompanying measures do you envisage in order to avoid this? Secondly, as several speakers have said, cashback should not be a substitute for ticket distributors. I know that ticket distributors are expensive for banks, so they risk considering that the best distributors, on account, are traders. But this should not be the case: first of all, because shops are not open all the time, unlike ticket distributors; then because this substitution would reduce service in the most isolated areas, and even in some cities where banks have already decided to remove distributors. Thirdly, I am thinking of the ruralists, who are still looking for alternatives to the sale of tobacco. Conventions are even signed to help them develop them. I would like to know if the cashback will be mentioned by these contracts or agreements with the Buralists. I also wonder about the remuneration for this new service. Tobacco and coffee offices were real places of life: did the Government provide for any specific measures for the Buralists in that regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u87	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u88	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for this amendment. On the same subject as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, I would like to point out that we have a number of work before us on, for example, public service missions, public service houses, the presence of the State in the territories, the contract between the State and La Poste... In this context, we would like you to inform us about access to cash, especially for the elderly or people living in rural areas and who do not have the opportunity to visit larger towns. How can access to means of payment be improved systemically? In the framework of Public Action 2022, for example, a reflection was launched on the payment of taxes in cash, which could be entrusted to La Poste. Similarly, consideration could be given to ATMs, particularly in postal agencies, which remain present in many villages. Even if they are not open for many hours during the day, they could be a point of access to cash. So, Madam Secretary of State, what are the lines of work that you are considering in this debate, the scope of which is beyond the mere introduction of cashback?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u89	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u90	I would like to elaborate a little more on the reasons behind my favourable opinion of this amendment. I stress that this will be done on a voluntary basis, and that some traders are eager to be able to offer this service, especially in rural areas. Some are located several kilometres from the nearest banking agency; offering them this means of redispensing the cash they have to ensure their own safety. It's a fact that needs to be kept in mind. Sarah El Haïry explained very well how this opportunity will improve the attractiveness of these areas. As for the fact that cashback would lead to the disappearance of distributors, this concern should not be: it would deprive banks of a source of commissions that I do not think they want to do without.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u91	Finally, distributors are already more and more rare!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u92	We'd need a universal banking service!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u93	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u94	You are asking me about how the Government will clarify the framework for this new practice and ensure the safety of the device for the traders who will use it. I confirm to you that there will be an implementing order and that in order to develop this order, we will arrange a place consultation, during which issues relating to security and the maximum withdrawal amount will be discussed. As the rapporteur has explained, we do not intend, by this measure, to encourage traders to hold more cash! On the contrary, cashback will allow them to redistribute the species they necessarily accumulate by doing their business more quickly. The traders themselves will decide, given their personal circumstances, the territory where they are located, and the amount of cash they already have to handle, if they want to develop this activity. I repeat: traders could see cashback as a way to limit their risks. I would also point out that they will have an incentive, as they will be able to draw up commissions. This will help them to sustain their activity. Indeed, we are very attentive to maintaining economic activity in the landlocked territories. To this end, we will ensure access to banking services for all people, including in rural areas, notably through La Poste, whose key role we reaffirm in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u95	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u96	This amendment can indeed help to maintain the economic activity of our city centres, to stimulate their vitality. I would like to react, Madam rapporteur, to the optimistic comments you made by saying that the cashback will not result in the closure of bank counters or ticket distributors, given the commissions they provide to financial institutions. I do not share your optimism. For several years, I fought with the elected representatives of a commune in my constituency, Nonant-le-Pin, to secure the maintenance of an ATM. We managed to save it for a few years, but at the end of the day it was removed. The financial body to which it belonged, of which I will not mention the name, demanded that the municipality bear the maintenance costs which amounted to 16,000 euros per year! We feel that the financial institutions want to withdraw from the small communes, and I fear that this will encourage them to do so even more. That is why, Madam rapporteur, I do not share your optimism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u97	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u98	Minister, I will give you two examples.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u99	Mr. President, that's enough! We're not going to spend the morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u100	Yes, I do! The problem is how this service will be paid. You mentioned this question, Madam Secretary of State: what about this remuneration? Let us take the example of "post points": traders can, in this context, distribute money – I think there is a ceiling of 200 euros. They are paid for this, but not by the customer: by La Poste. With regard to cashback, how will the method of remuneration be defined? Are you going to fix it by decree? Or will the remuneration be free? You have to explain how this will work, because you will have to pay the merchants for the service they will do! This is the case, I repeat, in the "post points", but it is La Poste that pays them, not the customer: if the customer asks for 100 euros, he receives 100 euros, he is not charged a commission. That's what I can't understand. Will it be a free service?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u101	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u102	This amendment proposes to complement the transposition of the Directive in order to secure customer data which is not considered sensitive data but which may nevertheless have a commercial interest for account information service providers. It is important to know that while they now offer a free service for basic functions, they have a variety of sources of remuneration, including targeted advertising, premium models and the sale of customer data outside sensitive data. Of course, customers are informed of this device in the general terms and conditions of sale, but they may sign them without having read the small lines at the bottom of the page! Therefore, it seems to me important to provide more guidance to these sources of remuneration by better protecting the user of payment services, thus avoiding the spread of this commercial practice to payment institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u103	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u104	I believe that this amendment merely seeks clarification, as it is already satisfied with the directive and therefore with the order of 9 August 2017. Article L. 521-5 of the Monetary and Financial Code makes the processing and retention of data by payment service providers conditional on the express consent of the user, knowing that the concept of processing includes communication, transmission, dissemination of data and their making available. Moreover, these providers can only access the personal data necessary to carry out their activity – articles L. 133-40 and L. 133-41 of the same code. Finally, Article L. 521-6 provides that the processing of personal data shall be carried out by payment service providers in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation, which establishes consent as a precondition and defines it as a positive, clear and informed act. In view of this information, I propose that you, my dear colleague, withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u106	I have nothing to add: withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u107	Mr Labaronne, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u108	I will remove it, but the notion of "data processing" does not necessarily mean, in the minds of users who give their consent, "commercialization of banking data". I intended to draw attention to the fact that this concept might need to be further clarified, as it could result in the marketing of non-sensitive personal data.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u109	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 8, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u110	DSP2 provided for the entry into force on 13 January of this year for most of its provisions and a delayed entry into force for those relating to the modalities for securing access to payment data between a third party actor – aggregator or payment initiator – and the customer's bank, as specified in the regulatory technical standard. The adoption of this technical standard has been delayed, as I mentioned earlier, since it will only be implemented in September 2019, 18 months after its adoption. This creates a transitional period of operational uncertainty before the modalities of communication between a third party actor and the customer's bank are secured through the use of programmative interfaces that will meet a specification provided for in the regulatory technical standard. In the meantime, it is the so-called web-scrapping practice that prevails: intermediaries make themselves known to the customer by using their identifier and password, with important risks about which the governor of the Bank of France and the director of the ANSSI – Agence nationale de la sécurité des systèmes d'information – have alerted the ministry. That is why the Government wishes to take the lead in reducing the operational uncertainty of the transitional period. This amendment therefore provides for the early application of the delegated act. This will make it possible to make the use of programmative interfaces more widespread as soon as they are ready and tested as part of the European specifications, a priori by the end of this year. In any event, they will have to enable the actors to continue to provide their services. National authorities may provide that such interfaces are the only way to access payment data by intermediaries. In terms of cybersecurity, this amendment will help to reduce as quickly as possible the computer risks associated with access by several separate intermediaries to bank data centres, which are all points of weakness. Each access would then be managed by a single interface, known as API, which would no longer require the storage of passwords and client identifiers by intermediaries on their own server, thus greatly reducing the risk of hacking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u112	I explained at the beginning of the examination of the text why I was in favour of this amendment. The entry into force of the provisions on the arrangements for access of fintech to bank data is too distant. As a reminder, the 18-month transitional period has not even begun because the Commission's secondary regulation has not yet been adopted. A significant delay has been made in the preparation of the Commission's draft. At the time of the adoption of the DSP2, no one imagined an entry into force in August 2019... As long as the transitional period is not over, the current situation, which is a source of uncertainty, persists, as the Secretary of State has just explained. If API interfaces are ready, it is better to advance the entry into force of the Directive, but provided that it concerns all its provisions in order to ensure its balance. Therefore, subject to the application order meeting these requirements, I express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u113	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u114	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u115	The aim is to clarify the information obligations of banks with regard to mediation procedures available to professionals. The Directive requires banks to allow their customers to submit complaints to a mediator. Making use of an option opened by the DSP2, it is thus provided in France that this right of appeal will be valid only for consumer customers: for professionals, it will be left to free contractual negotiation, and therefore will not necessarily exist. However, the Directive requires banks to inform their customers whether or not such an opportunity to appeal to a mediator exists. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the matter: as far as the professional is concerned, the bank will only be required to inform him of the existence of such a remedy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u117	Favourable opinion since this amendment fills a gap in the Directive by clarifying the information obligations of the payment service provider vis-à-vis the user in the event of the absence of an out-of-court settlement procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u118	The rapporteur, Mrs Nadia Hai, has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u119	This is a coordination amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u120	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u121	It provides for the extension of the supervisory competence of the Banque de France to specific payment instruments issued by the DSP2. I would point out that there is already a directive on electronic money, called 'DME2', which has introduced a derogation for special dematerialised payment securities – payment media issued for specific social or tax purposes, such as, for example, holiday vouchers or restaurant bonds. They escape the monopoly of banking institutions. Their issue is subject to control by the Bank of France. The DSP2 introduces a comparable derogation regime for specific payment instruments by providing that their issuance, again, escapes the monopoly of banking institutions. The amendment provides for the extension of the control of the Bank of France to these instruments. Otherwise, issuers could be tempted to have their special dematerialised payment securities, issued under DME2, qualified as specific payment instruments issued by DSP2 in order to escape its supervision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u122	That's very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u124	I can only support this amendment because it seeks to remedy a distortion of regulation. As the Secretary of State has just explained, it is a matter of establishing control of the Banque de France over specific payment instruments in the same way as special dematerialised payment instruments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u125	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u126	I would just like to point out that the Government has tabled four amendments on this text, i.e. 40 per cent of the total. We can therefore wonder whether we are not for some of them, very technical, as the text requires them to be, in overtransposition. The Government provided for additional obligations, both in the previous amendment and in that amendment. I regret that amendments of this nature were analysed at the last minute. Their provisions would have merited inclusion in the original text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u127	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u128	Madam Member, we do not over-transpose the directive because these are elements left to the discretion of the national legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u129	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor to support Amendment No. 4, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u130	This is an appeal amendment, Madam Secretary of State, because it seems essential to mention, in a debate on payment services, the development of bitcoin-type systems. The directive does not seem to be aimed at them – it has been confirmed to us in committee. It is nevertheless quite surprising to transpose a directive which has, and rightly so, as a means of securing transactions without being interested in virtual money. In the absence of adequate regulation, all these forms of private currency can therefore continue to thrive in general indifference, with uncontrolled risk and volatility. We would like the Government to explain its position with regard to the Bitcoins and whether it intends to frame these virtual currencies, a form of innovation that risks ending, like the famous Dutch tulips, with a huge scandal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u132	I understand, honourable Member, that your question is specifically addressed to the Secretary of State, and that it is an appeal amendment, as we have already seen in committee. I confirm that virtual currencies do not fall within the scope of the directive and that their regulation is not the subject of the bill. For the rest, let me remind you that we have already begun work on the subject. I am thinking in particular of the Committee on Finance's fact-finding mission on cryptocurrency and virtual currencies, which I urge you to integrate, since I have noticed that you are very interested in this. The Government also sent Jean-Pierre Landau on the matter. The Autorité des marchés financiers, for its part, will issue conclusions following the round of consultations it has conducted. Finally, the Bank of France is also looking at this issue. These are the reasons why I submit a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u133	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u134	I confirm that the Committee on Finance will launch an information mission on virtual currencies. We were unable to work on this issue in the last quarter of 2017 due to the review of the finance bill, but we will soon be able to take a look at it and look closely at the regulation of these currencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u136	The Government had recently expressed its views on the subject at both the national and European levels. As you know, virtual currencies are not a systemic risk today, as their amount is not likely to cause concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u137	We're still talking about 350 to 400 billion...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u138	It is their volatility and lack of transparency for users that pose problems, their ability to form hidden financing channels, including money laundering. Currently, the Government is working on the regulatory framework for the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, as part of the implementation of the fourth revised anti-money laundering directive. This includes, at the request of France, specific provisions requiring Member States to submit all conversion activities between virtual and legal tender money to the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. It also provides that all such activities shall be approved and shall have a supervisory authority to combat money-laundering and the financing of terrorism. In addition, many jurisdictions are interested in the nature and regulation of virtual currencies or cryptoactive currencies. The rapporteur recalled that Mr Le Maire, Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, had commissioned Jean-Pierre Landau in order to have operational proposals on the subject in the near future. The report, which is due at the end of March, will also feed into an international discussion with other States, including Germany, which will be held in the spring, in Argentina, within the framework of the G20. Finally, the Autorité des marchés financiers has launched a public consultation on COIs – Initial Coins Offers – the conclusions of which will be known very soon. Pending this work, I propose that you, Mr President, withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u139	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u140	As I indicated in the summary statement, this is an appeal amendment. I am very concerned about the development of these systems, which, it is said, amount to EUR 350 to 400 billion, which is not nothing, while the political authorities, as reactive as pachyderms, discuss, chat and do not act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u141	We're not gonna act in five minutes this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u142	Some of us object to the need for a European agreement. It's true, but we have to get out of the woods! We cannot allow such a system to flourish until we find out that it may be hiding something else. The Secretary of State referred to the fight against money laundering. The question is broader: should this type of virtual currency be allowed or regulated or should it be prohibited? To this question, we still do not have an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u143	Let's wait for the findings of the fact-finding mission!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u144	It's not the mission that will decide this case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u145	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u146	This is an urgent matter. We can always do missions, dear friends: in the meantime, you see, this prosperous system... In any event, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u147	I call Mrs Nadia Hai to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u148	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u149	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-08-O1138.u150	Next sitting, Tuesday, 13 February, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and vote by public vote on the draft law on the protection of personal data; Discussion of the draft law on the election of representatives to the European Parliament after the speed-up of the procedure. The meeting is adjourned.
