ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law on the supervision of mobile phone use in schools and colleges (No. 941, 989).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u2	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u3	Mr President, the Minister for National Education, the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering this morning has given rise to lively discussions in committee last week, and has been echoed in the press and in the educational community. This is probably because it concerns in concrete terms all parents who have children in school, but also, more broadly, because it causes each of us to wonder about the use of mobile phones in our daily lives, about their omnipresence in our professional and personal spheres. Studies show this: we consult our smartphones, on average, several tens of times a day, to read our emails, our messages, check our appointments, take pictures. While the question of the use of mobile phones arises for us adults, it is even more acute for our children, who have younger and younger devices and need to learn how to control their use. The purpose of this bill is to regulate the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges, setting out the principle of its prohibition and recalling the urgent need for education. This text embodies a commitment made by the President of the Republic during the electoral campaign, in order to put an end to the disruptions caused by mobile phones in schools and to improve the school climate. This reform is intended to apply from the beginning of the next school year, subject, of course, to the conduct of the debates in the Assembly and then in the Senate. As we know, the use of mobile phones among young people has become widespread: nearly 90% of the 12 to 17-year-olds have a smartphone, four times more than six years ago. Mobiles begin to spread among students from primary school onwards. The presence and use of these multifunctional tools in schools is not without consequences. They affect, in particular, the attention, concentration and memory abilities of students in the classroom. The courses offered by teachers are constantly being competed with other sources of information and activities, and the pupils are dispersing. In addition, the possession of smartphones can cause quarrels, and lead to rackets and thefts. They provide access to violent or pornographic content and can be used to film or take pictures of students, even teachers, without their knowledge; They facilitate cyber-harassment practices, which are known to have devastating effects on children. More broadly, the school climate is affected, as we have heard from several people interviewed for our work, including parents of students, teachers and school heads. During recreation, or between noon and two hours, students lock themselves in their bubbles and piano on their cell phones or gather around phones to watch videos: relationships between students are impoverished and they are more sedentary. Several people heard pointed out that in institutions that had decided to ban the use of mobile phones during recreation, balloons and games had returned to school. Finally, as we know, the use of mobile phones in children raises questions of public health. While the effects of radiofrequency exposure on children's health are not scientifically proven, their absence is not. In addition, several studies establish links between intensive use of mobile phones, and more broadly screens, with relational and emotional problems, sleep and attention disorders, addiction and addiction phenomena. It is in the light of all these findings that this proposal for a law lays down the principle of prohibiting mobile phones in schools and colleges, allowing for exceptions, which must be expressly defined by the rules of procedure of each school. Since 2010 and the National Environmental Commitment Act, known as "Grenelle II", the Education Code already provides that at school and college, the use of mobile phones is prohibited during teaching activities and in places provided for in the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u4	That's good to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u5	In practice, however, it appears that this provision is not applied in all establishments; It seems that this is the case in half of them. The text we are looking at reverses the current logic: it lays down the principle of prohibiting the use of the mobile phone, with the possibility of exceptions; it strengthens the legal basis for this prohibition, while leaving institutions with a certain degree of implementation autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u6	It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u7	The proposed wording also addresses a flaw in the current legislation: the prohibition of the use of mobile phones during teaching activities. However, this use can be very relevant when supervised by the teacher. From now on, this use for educational purposes will be possible, for example in the context of digital education or for certain learnings, when the digital tool enriches the teacher's pedagogy. We have made several improvements and clarifications to the bill in committee. First, we have extended the scope of the ban to all electronic communications terminal equipment, to include devices such as tablets or connected watches, which raise similar problems, even if their use is less widespread than the telephone. Secondly, we have provided that the prohibition also applies during educational activities that take place outside the premises of schools. This covers physical and sports education courses that take place in a gymnasium or stadium, for example, as well as school trips. Finally, we explicitly stated in the text that the prohibition would not apply to the use of telephones and other connected objects for educational purposes. That was the purpose of the text, but it seemed to us better to clarify it in the law rather than to include those uses in the exceptions defined by the rules of procedure. It will be the responsibility of schools to ensure the practical implementation of the reform, whether by asking students to turn off their mobile phones and put them at the bottom of their bags, or by using lockers. The reference to the rules of procedure to define the places where, by way of exception, the use of the mobile phone is allowed, must enable the entire educational community to be involved in the revision of the rules of procedure. It is essential that national education staff, as well as students and their parents, take ownership of this reform; This is the condition of its success. With regard to penalties for failure by students to comply with the prohibition, it seems desirable to clarify the current legal regime for confiscation in order to remove the uncertainties surrounding it. During the hearings, I heard different interpretations on the subject, which may lead teachers or supervisory staff to give up confiscating a cell phone for fear of questioning the student or his parents. The confiscation of the mobile phone, for example until the end of the day, is an appropriate sanction, especially since it allows parents to be involved in restitution, if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u8	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u9	In any event, this measure should not be viewed in isolation: it must be accompanied by a strengthening of the education of children for the responsible use of digital technology. The text aims to introduce a form of right to disconnect children during school time, so that the school is a kind of island where they can concentrate on their classes and interact with their peers, but this right must be complemented by an educational approach. This is the subject of two amendments which we have adopted in committee. This is a first step, which is intended to find an extension thereafter, building on the work of the information mission on schools in the digital society, currently led by the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, Mr Bruno Studer. First, we have introduced a digital dimension in the definition of civic responsibility education in the Education Code. Secondly, we reinforced the provisions on the training of pupils in the use of digital tools and resources by supplementing the rights and duties related to the use of the Internet, to which pupils must receive an education. This includes strengthening the prevention of cyber-harassment in schools. This training must also contribute to the development of students' critical thinking and the learning of digital citizenship. A digital civic education course must be built in a transversal and interdisciplinary way throughout the student's school life. It is essential to reflect on the proper use of these new powers provided by these technologies to our children. Finally, this text provides an opportunity to address the issue of excessive exposure of young people to screens and the form of addiction, or even addiction, that it can cause. While the school has an important role to play in teaching children to use digital technology, this is primarily the responsibility of parents, who are usually the ones who give their children a telephone. I believe that we need to have a broader approach and also involve, in this role of education, telephone and other tablet manufacturers, as well as Internet service providers, as part of their social responsibility. This is the subject of several amendments which I have tabled, in order to strengthen operators' obligations to inform them of the possibilities of parental control. I also propose to include on the advertisements for mobile phones and tablets a message of awareness to parents which would call for the non-use of these devices by toddlers under the age of three and reasonable use for children beyond the age of three. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, not to fear the evolution and fruitfulness of technical progress. Nevertheless, we must prepare our children to make good use of them. We must constantly promote the value of technical progress, not forgetting its social value. "For the law of progress to exist, everyone would want to create it; that is, when all individuals apply themselves to progress, then, and only then, humanity will be in progress," said Charles Baudelaire in his time about a society, like ours, in full transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u10	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u11	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u12	Mr President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, how can an increasingly technological world be increasingly humane? In my view, this is the main question of our time, and this bill is one of the answers we can provide. Today's great technological challenges are first and foremost at school, and the answers we can give them are through school, first and foremost because the school has to take into account new technologies. Two days ago, at the Ministry of National Education, I inaugurated a laboratory of new technologies that is intended to have an impact on the entire school system. As the rapporteur has just said, we must also provide education on new technologies. This is the meaning of the introduction of new subjects in high school, in particular the specialty discipline that we will call the "computer science", after the reform of the baccalaureate. It is also the meaning of the introduction, in the common base of the high school, of a discipline that relates to "scientific and digital humanities", a notion that we put into plural, which is very significant of the link that must be established between the general culture to be given to our students and the great technological challenges of our time. Being open to the technologies of the future, even considering them to be key to tomorrow, does not mean that we must accept them as they are in all their uses. We all know that, like the languages of Esope, new technologies can be used at best as well as at worst. This means that there are good uses, relevant uses, which can even achieve the centuries-old socratic ideal of student interaction and participation. We can do this better than ever, thanks to new technologies. Unfortunately, however, we are only too familiar with bad practices: as pointed out The rapporteur is talking about cyber-harassment, watching pornographic sites by students, and simply addiction on screens. This has become a real evil of our society, an evil that is raging at an early age, not just through smartphones and schools, but against which the public authorities must send a clear message. Indeed, all international studies show that this addiction to screens, especially smartphones, causes damage: it leads to a weakening of the concentration of children and, increasingly, especially from the sixth grade, to a decline in fundamental practices such as physical exercises and reading. Therefore, while new technologies can inspire our enthusiasm, at the same time we must be vigilant about all their perverse effects. We owe this discernment and clarity to our children and adolescents from school. That is why I welcome the inclusion on the agenda of this bill to prohibit the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges. This text embodies a campaign commitment by the President of the Republic, whom I am proud, as Minister of National Education, to be able to implement. The ban on mobile phones in schools addresses key educational issues, including the first one: the protection of students. It is good to recall that students are all minors, and we have a duty to protect them, especially at school and college. During teaching activities, the mobile phone disrupts the serenity of learning. Its prohibition will ensure a favourable environment for students. The quality of student concentration is indeed essential for understanding, memorization and thus success. During recreational times, the use of mobile phones degrades the school climate: their increasingly massive use undermines physical activity and degrades relations between students. The heads of institutions can tell you this: a court without a cell phone is a court where children play, discuss, shun, where they live their child's life. During my many college visits, I see the huge difference between those institutions where mobile phones are already banned and those where they are not. This proves, moreover, that the ban is possible in practice, but we need – I will come back to it – a much stronger and clearer legal basis than the one in force; This morning's public debate will help us. In addition, the use of mobile phones is responsible for a significant proportion of incivilities and disruptions in establishments: telephone breakage, racket and theft. This is a reality that we need to talk about. They often support the phenomenon of cyber-harassment, which is imported into recreational classes and continues outside institutions. It leads to changes that could be described as anthropological in the lives of our children and adolescents; We need to be very careful about it. Finally, mobile phones facilitate access to violent images, including pornographic images; They thus contribute to the dissemination of a degrading image of women, contrary to the republican and humanist principles that we collectively carry – as you know, this is a subject on which the Government is particularly committed. You have all raised these issues, ladies and gentlemen, during the examination of this text in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. On these issues, I see a consensus throughout French society, which I check with each interlocutor. In committee, some of you have wondered about the need to legislate since the ban on mobile phones in schools is already included in the Education Code. I wish to respond clearly to this question, which I believe is legitimate. In the current state of law, article L. 511-5 of the Education Code provides for the prohibition of the use of mobile phones " during any educational activity and in places provided for in the rules of procedure".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u13	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u14	However, since the administrative judge does not accept in a certain way the legality of a general prohibition taken by the regulatory power and only heads of establishments who can put such a measure on the agenda of the boards of directors without this being considered imperative, the effectiveness of the prohibition is not ensured; Unfortunately, we can all see that. It is therefore the desire to ensure the effective prohibition of the use of mobile phones in all schools and colleges that justifies this bill. It will also clarify a number of rules, which the rapporteur, Cathy Racon-Bouzon, has just recalled. I would also like to welcome the work that the Commission has done in committee, which has made it possible to clarify and supplement Article 1. The new wording of this article provides useful details of the places where this prohibition will be effective, including places outside the school where educational activities take place, such as gymnasiums during physical and sports education courses. It also provides obvious exceptions for students with disabilities or a disabling health condition. The new wording of Article 1 also extends the prohibition on the use of mobile phones to include "electronic communications terminal equipment", i.e. tablets, connected watches and technological inventions which we must anticipate. In addition, it provides for the possibility for teachers to authorize, at their request only, the use of mobile phones for educational purposes. I observe in passing that this pedagogical use has experienced a form of revival, at least in the intentions, since this bill is being considered – it may be one of its virtues... The pedagogical uses of digital tools, when supervised by a teacher, are obviously legitimate. Driven with discernment, they contribute to the accompaniment of each child towards the responsible, critical and respectful use of digital tools. Finally, I would like to welcome the flexibility that this text allows for the practical implementation of the ban on the use of mobile phones; As Minister of National Education, I am very sensitive to this. The current wording of Article 1 gives the rules of procedure of each institution the possibility of specifying the details of this prohibition. Contrary to what I have heard, there is no question of imposing these arrangements, for example the installation of lockers in all establishments; Many departmental councils say they are interested in this option, which could have other advantages, such as easier storage of manuals, but it will only be a possibility. Each establishment, depending on the configuration of its premises and its own organisation, will be able to define the procedures for applying this prohibition, taking into account its specific characteristics. The school institution – the Ministry of National Education – will obviously play a consultative role with all the colleges in France to help them take the most appropriate measures. The Ministry will soon publish a vade-mecum, drawn up by the departments of the DGESCO – the Directorate-General for School Education – with the support of a working group of teachers and heads of schools, in order to support schools in the practical implementation of this ban. This document, which will take into account your work, will present good practices. The ban on the use of mobile phones in schools and schools is intended to make students and families aware of the rational use of screens. At the same time, we strengthen the use of digital tools in our teaching practices and provide students with a foundation of digital skills. Learning to use digital tools with discernment – that is to say, to encourage good practices and prevent bad ones – is, for the school, the most willing way to meet the challenges of the current digital revolution. This text is therefore, as you can see, a bill of the twenty-first century to enter the digital revolution. This will probably not be the only one because we will have a lot to do in this area. This is an important signal sent to French society but also beyond our borders because this text has aroused a lot of interest in other countries. He frees the floor on this subject. We must not be afraid to take initiatives in this area. It is not a blind "technophilia" that will free us, but a discerned taste for technology. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the Government, which I represent this morning, very much welcomes this bill, which I invite you to adopt by a very large majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u15	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject it in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u16	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Government and the majority have the obsession to translate President Macron's campaign promises into law at all costs. Was it necessary to legislate following the tabling of Richard Ferrand's proposal, whose title I would recall: "Proposal for a law prohibiting the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges". The Republican Group considers the answer to be no, and I will try to demonstrate this by defending the motion to reject it beforehand. The ban on mobile phones has been enshrined in legislation since the law of 12 July 2010 on the national commitment to the environment, which was carried by the UMP group at the time. Recall, for those who have forgotten it, the content of article L. 511-5 of the Education Code: "In kindergartens, elementary schools and colleges, the use during any teaching activity and in the places provided for by the rules of procedure, by a student, of a mobile phone is prohibited. » [[Smile]] Of two things one – "Two things one is the sun", maliciously said Jacques Prévert. Either the group The Republic on the move is in ignorance, which would be very worrying, or it is in the superfectory! Aware, without a doubt, of the prohibition contained in the code of education and probably marked by a dose of bad faith, candidate Macron said in the spring of 2017: "Some of them hastened to object that the prohibition of smartphones was already included in the code of education or in the rules of procedure, but what is the reality of the institutions? The homework is also forbidden in primary school, have they disappeared everywhere anyway? This at least risky comparison does not justify this bill in any way. I take it that the majority has ostensibly committed themselves to a pure communication operation of perfect cynicism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u18	The masks fell quickly in committee as the majority group, aware of the absurdity of the situation, hastened to change the title while trying to muscle the text. The title is now: "supervising the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges." In addition, from a single article to three: to add to a perfectly useless text, five lines and two paragraphs to twenty-five lines and ten paragraphs have been changed, proving once again the total unpreparation of this bill. This is beginning to become a bad habit because the so-called EGALIM bill – for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy and sustainable diet – has grown disproportionately from seventeen to seventy articles and the ELAN bill – for the evolution of housing, development and digital technology – is increasing from sixty-five to more than one hundred and thirty articles. And let me not be told that it is to enrich the parliamentary debate! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let us return to this bill, which comes suddenly to the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. A rapporteur was appointed in haste on Wednesday, 16 May, for consideration in committee on 29 May. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Racon-Bouzon on her beating drum hearings and her rather satisfactory diagnostic report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u19	I salute your elegance, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u20	On the one hand, he spoke of the challenges of using mobile phones, leading to framed use, essentially reserved for educational activities, and, on the other hand, to the education of pupils for the responsible use of digital technology. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a little historical reminder from the professor of mathematics that I was in another life. When, in 1971, the first electronic calculators appeared and gradually invaded the market, the first reflex was to ban them in class. It was feared that children would no longer be able to calculate and that the calculators would not become objects of discrimination, benefiting those who had one. Then, gradually – I was then a trainer at MAFPEN, the academic mission to train national education staff – it was an opportunity to imagine innovative teaching methods, especially after the advent of programmable calculators. Rather than banning, the new possibilities were used, and in the small classes a little more was forced on mental calculus. The examination subjects were adapted and the limits of this new tool were also shown, which allowed students to develop their reasoning and critical thinking. It was an opportunity to rediscover the mechanical calculators or to approach Fibonacci's suite from a new angle. In short, from an initial ban, new educational horizons have been opened. For the mobile phone and connected objects of all kinds, it will be the same. However, are we more advanced with the three articles that have emerged from the committee's work? No! Article L. 511-5 is perfectly functioning today. The problem is not the mobile phone, it's the use of it. I thought that the fact-finding mission on schools in the digital society, whose work is under way and whose rapporteur is none other than President Studer, should lead to a real law on digital in schools or, better, on schools in the digital age. The rapporteur explained to us that there was no other text planned in the autumn but that hers was "the first floor of a rocket". Will the rocket take off after the findings of the information mission? We'll see! The Republican Group believes that the use of mobile phones and, in general, connected objects should be thoroughly studied, which is not the case to date. Serious health studies – an area vaguely mentioned in the report – will have to be carried out. The addiction of young people to screens and smartphones and the connection to social networks are real concerns. Before we legislate and go further, we believe that we need to take maximum precautions, confront and reinforce good practices to avoid consequences that could be harmful in terms of education or public health. Why didn't the time for legislation come? Because article L. 511-5 is enough for the proper functioning of our schools and colleges. After a small survey carried out in my constituency, I can say that the mobile phone is not a problem in the vast majority of our primary schools: a few stolen photos are to be deplored but, overall, the prohibition of the phone, as an object of value, is respected. The NIE – the inspector of national education – of the sector has never been questioned about this. The situation is different in the college. A few cases of total prohibition are to be noted, but in a fairly general way, the telephone is not prohibited as such: it must only remain extinguished and not visible; use is often possible in the presence of an adult. Here is an excerpt from Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure of a College. "The use of the mobile phone is expressly prohibited during teaching periods, in the playground, during EPS journeys and in any building. Recording of sounds, photos or videos (using cameras, digital devices or mobile phones) is strictly prohibited in the establishment. The institution shall sanction the placing on-line of sound recordings, images, photos or videos of students, teachers or any other staff of the college, without the consent of the person concerned, of messages of an offensive, defamatory, insulting or violent nature (including on the Internet). They will also be reported to the court, which reserves the right to prosecute parents. The ringing of the telephone in progress, permanently or in buildings will also be subject to punishment and confiscation of the telephone. It will then be up to the family to pick it up from the administration. These rules then deal with loss, theft, walkers or dangerous objects. Minister, your vade mecum will certainly be very useful. There is, however, an excellent document entitled "Document d'aide à la réglementation du règlement intérieur", issued by the DAAFCES Legal Office for School Life – the Academic Directorate of Financial Affairs, support and advice to institutions and services. It is of course based on the current article L. 511-5 in force. A section is devoted to the use of certain personal goods – mobile phones or smartphones. It states that a general and absolute prohibition cannot be provided for in the rules of procedure: the use of mobile phones, walkers or other objects cannot be prohibited in the establishment; It can only be regulated. Confiscation is not an illegal measure but must be accompanied by precautions. It must be time-limited and cannot be treated as a penalty. How does this happen in practice? I met with a principal who was able to surround himself with resource persons, including legal advice, before drawing up the rules of procedure for his college. There was debate before the adoption of this regulation in the Management Board. A working group initially declined everything that could be done with a mobile phone and wondered how to use it intelligently. It started from the axiom that, as the mobile phone is a private object, it is out of the question of confiscating it, except in some cases, on which I will return. Thus, the use of the mobile phone is limited. A student can at any time go to the school life office to use his personal cell phone in the presence of an adult. The mobile phone is prohibited in the playground, in order to combat the isolation of children who would use it constantly and more or less in hiding. Also in the presence of an adult, students with difficulty, dyslexic or dyspraxic, visually impaired or hard of hearing are allowed to use the mobile phone to photograph, for example, the picture in case of difficulty of copying. The student can then go to the secretariat to make an impression, which will allow him to have a personal paper document. Similarly, it is possible to record a sequence in a language course or, in the context of participatory groups, to film choreographies during the course of physical and sports education, for the purpose of pedagogical exploitation. A student may apply for permission to photograph a boyfriend who plays, for example, handball, but always in the presence of an adult. I would add that, in order to avoid any discrimination, the college has set up a fleet of six mobile phones, in particular so that a child can call his parents or be called by them, or so that he can send them a text message, and that he has equipped his CDI – a centre for documentation and information – with seventeen tablets, also for use by the mobile classes, and two cameras, made available to the students. The wifi is everywhere, with 127 wired sockets and internet connection possible throughout the establishment. Thanks to the departmental council! There are no storage lockers, which could pose security or surveillance problems. Finally, it should be noted that, in this college, as early as the sixth grade, all students benefit from an awareness of the dangers of violent networks and images and that the subject of harassment is clearly addressed, in the fourth and third grades, with adolescents. Is everything perfect in this college of 400 students? Of course not: the main deplores on average one case per week of non-compliance with the rules. When a student is caught on the basis of fraudulent use of his or her mobile phone, he or she is immediately summoned by management. The student removes the SIM card himself, which he keeps, and puts his cell phone in an envelope that is sealed in front of him. Therefore, the principal or the person representing the authority does not touch the phone at any time, and the envelope is placed in the trunk of the college. Parents or the legal representative are immediately informed that, for example, at 10:22 a.m., their child's phone has been safely placed and that they can pick it up. For optimal operation of the facility, exemplary adult behaviour is required. Teachers only use their mobile phones in the teachers' room. It should also be noted that at the beginning of the year parents, pupils and principal teachers in this college sign a charter of the civility rules of the college. It states that the prohibition of using your mobile phone during classes and educational activities must be respected and that it is prohibited to use it for filming and disseminating images that violate the dignity of individuals. Similarly, each student signs an Internet usage charter, in which one can read, among other commitments: "I do not navigate on websites of sale, games or "cat". I respect the law protecting minors. I do not connect to violent, pornographic, racist, human rights-based or child-prohibited sites. All of this is made possible by the current article L. 511-5. What are the criminal facts that go back to the academies? I imagine, minister, that you know some of them. These are cases of cyberviolence, often of a sexual nature, and cyberharassment linked to the misuse of social networks. The three sections of this bill will not change anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u21	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u22	Last January, a major phenomenon affected schools, in which girls were victims of a game known to students as "The Puta". The aim was to hijack photos of these young girls by means of pornographic editing and thereby damage their reputation. These images, broadcast on Snapchat, were then copied and widely disseminated. The result was insults on social networks and in institutions. The police, the gendarmerie and the juvenile prosecutor's office had been seized, which was reassuring, and notes had been sent to all schools to make them aware of the abuses and to accompany them in their prevention. Some time ago, the Periscope app, in vogue in some institutions, allowed to film a live course and share it with outside viewers, who were commenting on it in real time. One could also refer to the QuizUp or Sarahah applications, used to anonymously post slanderous or defamatory statements. Madam rapporteur, if you have made a good effort to enrich the original text, I do not see in your bill any progress in the situations that I have developed. Your six new amendments are more related to incantation, or even DIY, as well as to the legislative rider – they seem to me to be totally inapplicable. I will therefore defend amendments to delete the three articles. Minister, I'm sure you're considering a nice communication operation for the coming year, regarding the new use of the mobile phone, but on the merits, I don't see any benefit to this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Lab 110 bis has been operational for two days at the ministry. I would have preferred that before legislating, innovative ideas spring out of the bazaar next to the National Education Cathedral – I liked the metaphor given during the inaugural speeches. With a little patience, minister, you could have proposed a beautiful bill on school in the digital society. Yesterday, in questions to the Government, your colleague Mounir Mahjoubi, Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, replied that digital technology must be given "rules to avoid the worst". We're far from it. That is why I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u23	Excellent intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u24	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u25	[[Laugh. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr Reiss, parliamentary debates are definitely an interesting intellectual and political moment. Yesterday, from the benches of the left, raised a violent condemnation of Jacobinism, historically amazing. This morning, you celebrate the fifty years of May 68 with the slogan: "It is forbidden to ban", which amazes me a little from your benches... Fortunately, a central axis keeps the ideas clear and sets clear rules, because it is this sharpness that is expected by French society, and I am surprised that you do not feel it. I have seen a contradiction in your remarks: there is indeed a very clear difference between the two parts of your speech. If I enjoyed the second much more, you can easily guess it, it is that all you said in it could be used by the departments of the Ministry of National Education to develop the vade mecum that I mentioned. You have indeed demonstrated that it is possible to apply the measures set out in the bill. This leads me, to my astonishment, to observe that, in the debates on the subject, there are two types of objections, of which those who formulate them do not see the contradictory nature: on the one hand, these provisions already exist; of the other, they are not applicable. You should know, just choose one of the two arguments! I understood that you were using the argument that these provisions already exist. However, if that were the case, that would be the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u26	They're in the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u27	You cannot be insensitive to the fact that good practices are associated with very bad ones, which requires, not only to change the current provisions, but also to do so by law, with its legal and symbolic virtues – we must focus on these two aspects. What you call "communication," I call it "influence on reality." This is an important point: our debates this morning will really affect the situation. The second part of your speech, which is, as such, very interesting, will also, at least I hope, have influence. This bill is therefore in no way unnecessary, quite the contrary. I can also congratulate you on the virtues of digital technology at school, since the chairman of the committee, Bruno Studer, whom you mentioned, has worked a great deal on the issue with all the Members, with a view to building, in the future, other stages of the rocket. I repeat, we must promote good practices and prohibit bad ones. I therefore regret that the question of the ban on mobile phones in schools and colleagues does not reach consensus here, whereas it does so in French society. Visiting a large number of establishments, as I have already told you, I can assure you. In fact, the example you gave bears witness to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u28	Populism often makes consensus...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u29	As you have understood, the text, by making a very important legal change, is not superfetal, far from it. It will indeed reverse the paradigm: the prohibition becomes the principle, as institutions retain room for manoeuvre to determine its modalities. It is this prohibition of principle that will allow it to be generalised. It is true that the Education Code already provides for an early ban, but it is insufficient. That the situation is currently very imperfect is proof of this. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The drafting that Members have prepared is much better thought and much more thorough, since the prohibition in principle will affect all schools and colleges in the country, will bring all the necessary details – we will mention them during our debates – and will also have a symbolic impact. It makes it possible to launch, without any shame, the debate on the prohibition of certain tools whose use can be regarded as bad for children. With this ban perfectly in mind, I obviously believe that your motion to reject it must be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u30	I don't feel much conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u31	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u32	Mr Reiss, you have demonstrated, in the second part of your speech, that an educational community can seize this issue. This is the subject of the text that we are defending this morning. We are indeed moving from the principle of authorisation with possible prohibitions to a principle of prohibition with possible authorizations, based on the in-depth reflection of the educational community.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u33	It's sophistical, it's not legal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u34	Not at all, Mr. Hetzel! In 50% of the establishments, the reflection has not yet begun.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u35	They didn't wait for you to think!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u36	The principle we are putting forward, ladies and gentlemen, is the ban on mobile phones in all colleges and schools in the national territory, except in cases where the educational community has deemed it necessary to allow it. You have stressed the existence of pedagogical uses of the mobile phone: the text allows to reinforce teachers who wish to use it, in collaboration with the entire educational community, responsible for drafting the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u37	This is already happening!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u38	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Don't pretend that the text is superfetal: it is simply intended to apply throughout the territory, so that each educational community opens up a reflection on the daily use that should be made of an object that everyone has at the bottom of his pocket. It is with conviction that we defend this bill, which affirms a clear principle and for which the rapporteur has conducted numerous hearings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u39	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u40	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Once it is not customary, we were rather conquered by the arguments of the group The Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u41	These are arguments of common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u42	We will therefore vote in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u43	The worst is never certain!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u44	The proposed provisions seem to us to fall more within the regulatory sphere than within the legislative sphere.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u45	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u46	Moreover, while we agree with a number of facts, they do not seem to us to solve the many problems: the answers given seem rather inadequate. As you said yourself, Minister, some teams have already responded to this problem, while others are looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u47	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u48	Earlier, we will have an opportunity to further explain our position on this bill. On the motion to reject, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u49	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u50	It's a benevolent abstention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u51	Contrary to what the minister has said, it will not be a 21st century law but a law of the century of information chains and binary debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u52	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u53	As if the question was asked, are you for or against the cell phone at school? Contrary to the teasing you have addressed to our colleagues in the Republican Group, Minister, their line is not "no ban" but "no ban twice"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u54	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u55	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u56	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In fact, the ban has already been imposed. The one who talks to you has been a professional high school teacher for twenty-two years – I will have the opportunity to explain it to me. The problem with the cell phone is real, but there are still many others – I'll list it. I don't know a single teacher in this country who allows a student to use a cell phone in class. If you know one, bring it to me! Whether or not this provision is included in the rules of procedure, each teacher intervenes to ensure that students focus on the course. The real question is: how should we actually do it? Your bill does not help us to respond to it. I'll talk to you earlier about a professional high school that I've known well,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u57	The text is not about high schools!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u58	...where there's no supervisor in the afternoon to pick up a student who stands up to the teacher. In a primary school where the director does not receive discharge hours, for lack of means – this is not the case in Paris, which is a rich city – he cannot come to help the teacher who has to manage a disruptive student refusing to release his mobile phone. How do we do it in these cases? You don't address these questions. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, LR and GDR groups]] On the other hand, engage a second time the controversy "for or against the cell phone at school? I have no doubt that information channels will organise a good binary debate on this subject, but in concrete terms, it does not facilitate the exercise of the teaching profession. Perhaps a debate in committee would allow us to draft a real bill that could be a teaching aid for teachers rather than simply an announcement or communication effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u59	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u60	Like our colleague Alexis Corbière, the GDR Group will abstain on the motion to reject it beforehand. We could work on the subject in committee. For our part, we have made proposals because we do not deny the existence of problems, including cyber-harassment, and we believe that the most effective response would lie not only in pedagogy, but also in increasing the means to enforce the internal regulations of schools and colleges by supervisors. That is why the adoption of the motion for referral to committee, which will be defended in a moment, seems to us to be the way forward. As presented to us by the Government and the rapporteur, the purpose of this bill is only to respond to the express request to translate a presidential commitment that, when formulated during the election campaign, did not already correspond to anything, since the prohibition of the use of mobile phones in schools is already included in the legislation and may be provided for in the rules of procedure. Honestly, this text is absurd. My colleague Marie-George Buffet will return.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u62	The deputies of the majority are the lackeys of the Elysée!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u63	On the vote on the motion to reject the motion, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Attal, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u64	Just now, Mr. Reiss, you started your speech by talking about the obsession of the majority to implement the commitments made by the President of the Republic during the campaign, as if it were surprising... We thought that after a year, the opposition would be used to holding on to the commitments made to the French and validated by the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u65	We are especially used to having you present unnecessary texts!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u66	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You consider, like Mrs Faucillon, that it is surprising, that it is not self-evident. As for us, we consider that, when a majority derives its democratic legitimacy from the results of an election, the minimum is that it brings to national representation the commitments it has made, since it is the wish of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u67	Welcome to the godillots!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u68	The little finger on the seam of the pants!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u69	Another cultural incomprehension has transpired in several interventions: what is the point of voting for a ban, since it already exists in the law, have I heard?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u70	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u71	Again, there is a cultural difference between us. It is important to vote laws, but it is even more important to verify on the ground its effectiveness, the correct application of the principles it contains,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u72	Go on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u73	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] ... to assess the public policies implemented and, where they are not applicable, to correct the situation by adapting the legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u74	It's still hard to have such a lame program!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u75	It is not a question of voting for a dry ban. The debate is not "for or against the mobile phone". Just listen to the minister and our excellent rapporteur to make it clear that the issue is not binary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u76	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u77	New technologies and digital tools involve both risks and opportunities,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u78	We never said otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u79	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u80	...which have to be treated from school because a lot of things are going on. The minister and the rapporteur explained how our bill would allow for a paradigm shift, by issuing a general ban that will have concrete applications on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u81	Jupiter spoke!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u82	First, it will help institutions that cannot ban mobile phones today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u83	Yes, they can!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u84	Then, the second stage of the rocket will allow to apprehend the school in the digital society. We are beginning to do so with this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u85	There's nothing in it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u86	Please, Mr. Gosselin!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u87	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] We will consider a second text in a few months, at the initiative of the Republic on the move. We'll all move forward together. That is why we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u88	Mr Patrick Hetzel, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u89	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This debate is rather strange. As you have seen, the ban on mobile phones is already included in the law – even the majority group is obliged to recognize it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u90	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u91	So we find ourselves in a rather ubiquitous situation: we rebuild something that already exists. Minister, you are a distinguished lawyer and I have known you finer in your arguments. As Mr. Attal pointed out, you are in a logic of realizing a promise from Mr. Macron. But Mr Macron sometimes promises things that already exist! The only issue is the implementation of this ban. However, I repeat, it did not require any amendments to the law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u92	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u93	... since it is the responsibility of the Government. Implement what is already possible instead of giving yourself to this simulacre! [[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] In addition, you should realize that there are many other topics to be addressed. To propose this text to us is to insult Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u94	Mrs Nadia Essayan, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u95	In our view, this motion of prior rejection is not timely. Mr Reiss, the very length of your argument, the multiplicity of situations that you have cited and the possible answers that you have mentioned show that it is necessary to support practice by legislation governing the subject a minimum, while preserving the responsibility of the educational community. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] While the text's starting point was thin – although necessary – the work in committee improved it. That is also what the forthcoming debate in the Chamber will allow. It is clear from this that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement considers it useful. We must go through the legislative process: we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u96	The next speaker is Mrs Béatrice Descamps, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u97	This text has the merit of clarifying the legal framework relating to the prohibition of mobile phones in schools,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u100	... whereas the previous writing, dating back to 2010, was not characterized by the same precision. It makes the ban the norm and opens exceptions to which we are not opposed if they remain confined to courses in digital civic education, to the learning of the critical mind in the face of fake news and conspiracy theories,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u101	You don't have to falter! City halls are two years away!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u102	...and if they do not lead to massive digital development in our classrooms. Our group will therefore vote against the motion for a preliminary rejection, defended by our colleagues in the Republican Group. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On the contrary, we hope that the discussion will take place and continue in session.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u103	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u104	What a disappointment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u105	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u106	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u107	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin my speech by reading the famous article L. 511-5 of the Education Code as it stands: "In kindergartens, elementary schools and colleges, the use of a mobile phone is prohibited during any educational activity and in places provided for by the rules of procedure, by a student. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u108	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u109	If the words have meaning, the prohibition of mobile phone use during any teaching activity and in places provided for in the rules of procedure, in kindergartens, elementary schools and colleges, is therefore already possible and included in the education code since 2010.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u110	It's been eight years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u111	It is true that during the presidential campaign, candidate Emmanuel Macron promised that the use of mobile phones would be prohibited in primary schools and colleges. Then we could only approve it. But would it not have been easier to take steps to better enforce the law that already exists? When it is known that half of the colleges have included in their rules of procedure the prohibition of telephones in class, or even in all or part of the playground, was it not preferable to encourage the other half of the colleges to do the same, rather than legislate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u112	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u113	In the 18th arrondissement of Paris, the Collège Gérard-Philipe successfully applied the ban on mobile phones – this is the case with many other establishments, as our colleague Frédéric Reiss rightly pointed out. The cell phone, turned off, is stored at the bottom of the bag, the regulations are displayed in several places and the set-up is well applied, as the principals usually estimate. If a student violates this prohibition, the cell phone is confiscated; In case of recidivism, he can of course be punished. All of this already exists. So, was it necessary to table a new text, on which the Government had even gone so far as to initiate the accelerated procedure? Unless the majority, who claims to be the new world, once again want to use the law as a mere communication operation...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u114	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u115	I will remind you of Montesquieu's often repeated remarks, to which I know you will be sensitive, minister: "Sometimes it is necessary to change certain laws. But the case is rare, and when it arrives, it only needs to be touched with a shaking hand. » [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to discover all the trickery of this operation, it seems to me necessary to read to you now the single article of the bill as it was tabled for its consideration in the Committee on Cultural Affairs. Thus, article L. 511-5 of the Education Code, rewritten by Mr. Ferrand, reads: "With the exception of places where, under the conditions specified in the rules of procedure, it is expressly authorized, the use of a mobile phone by a student is prohibited in kindergartens, elementary schools and colleges. As you can see, it's a legislative big-bang! Well done, the majority! The tour de force was to completely rewrite the bill in committee. That is, if the original text was reflected: a text is tabled to rewrite it in full.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u116	We're working on a commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u117	Admittedly, but here, unpreparation is still extraordinary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u118	The work in committee serves to improve the texts!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u119	Minister, the eminent lawyer you are knows that all this is, alas, only a mockery. I'm surprised you agreed to lend yourself to it. Can we imagine for a moment that the original version of a text of such importance was improvised? The result is a total modification of article 1e r and the addition of two new articles: nice work! Madam rapporteur, you wanted to make it clear that the balance of the text did not change. That's what reassures us! It was a clever way to say that nothing changes – you wonder why you had to change anything. Finally, aware of the fact that the ban on mobile phones in schools existed in fact in the law, you first amended the title of your bill, now "on the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges". At least you were lucid on this point. By Article 1, the prohibition will apply to the use by a student of "a mobile phone or any other electronic communications terminal equipment": the aim is to include connected equipment such as tablets, computers or connected watches, in order to avoid a substitution effect of the devices that students would bring to school. In order not to penalize students whose health status requires the use of connected equipment, such as devices to enable children with diabetes to manage their blood sugar levels, a derogation has been provided for "students with a disability or a disabling health disorder". Nothing to say about this, but, again, all this is a matter of common sense and did not require codification in the law. This is typically a talkative law, exactly the opposite of what should be done. Article 3 concerns training in the use of digital tools and resources. During their schooling, young people currently benefit from "an awareness of the rights and duties associated with the use of the Internet and networks, including the protection of privacy and respect for intellectual property" – this is how the legislation in force is drafted. An amendment in committee provides that this "awareness" becomes "education" – you will notice the difference. And no doubt the devil nests at you in the details: what is now "education" will have to worry about "the freedom of opinion and the dignity of the human person" and contribute "to the development of the critical mind and to the learning of digital citizenship". Here we are again subject to a chatty law: what is the relationship between the primary purpose of the text and this development of Internet-based civic education? There's no connection between each other. If it is still planned to consider a digital school bill in the fall – since you announced it, minister, I suppose that will be the case – why such provisions in this bill? All of this should be treated in a simple and consistent manner when we discuss the place of digital in school. Several questions therefore come to mind. Minister, you have confirmed that the ban on mobile phones at school will be implemented as of next school year. Can you tell us what it is going to do, or at least what you're planning, because we have to wait for the outcome of the bill's review? In this text, there is no framework or sanction for non-execution. Are you going to give teachers and staff the means to implement it in practice? What about a student who was discovered using his cell phone, tablet or connected watch in class? At one point, you had publicly considered the installation of closed lockers outside the classroom so that the students could drop off their phone or any other connected object in the morning – you had a few moments ago. Philippe Vincent, deputy secretary-general of the SNPDEN – the Syndicat national des personnels de direction de l'éducation nationale – wondered whether a college was destined to transform itself into a "giant set-up" and proceeded with the following calculation: "5300 public colleges, 500 students on average, that is about 3 million lockers". Such a financial investment would, of course, be the responsibility of the departmental councils responsible for the maintenance of the colleges. However, everyone is aware of the already worrying financial situation of these communities, which the Government continues to strangle. Despite the existing texts, 30 to 40 per cent of school sanctions are linked to the use of mobile phones during classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u120	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u121	I do not underestimate the difficulty teachers face in enforcing this measure, despite the regulations that some schools have put in place. The problem is real, but it is not with this law that you will solve it, you know it well. In some schools, teachers collect devices at the beginning of the course to ensure that their students are not tempted to open their bags and look at their mobile phones, as Mr. Corbière mentioned earlier. However, in the event of a conflict, a teacher does not have the right to search a student or to confiscate a telephone, as it is not a dangerous object. Your text does not in any way address these daily and very concrete concerns of teachers. The national secretary of the SE-UNSA union – the Teachers' Union – denounces, for its part, "a purely media announcement" and "anecdotal by contributing to other subjects such as the recruitment of teachers, their training or the mastery of digital tools". In her view, the absolute prohibition is impossible because of the "lack of resources" – so it is not a legislative problem, but rather a problem concerning the executive. She said that "teachers are not going to turn into mobile police when they already do not have enough time to complete the learning process." I now come to the authorisation of mobile phones or tablets for educational use. There too, a debate is needed, even if I regret that we have to discuss it now, because we will have the opportunity to come back to it when we examine your text on the place of digital at school. First of all, I think that educational innovation has very many avenues outside the digital field. The screens are described enough as the source of the culture of immediacy so that national education is prudent in their use for educational purposes. I will only recall in this regard that the leaders of two GAFA companies, Google and Apple, choose for their children schools without technology. That should make us think collectively. It is at school that the learning of concentration must take place – I know, minister, how sensitive you are to it. It is at this price that students will be receptive to learning basic knowledge, to which we are collectively committed. Minister, I am very attentive to your remarks, which are generally very relevant,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u122	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u123	...except this morning. Last April you made four recommendations to strengthen the mastery of fundamentals: reading, writing, counting, respecting others. There is still concern about the number of school dropouts: 20 per cent of children in sixth grade do not have mastery of basic learning. However, it is the solid acquisition of fundamentals that gives each student a chance, not access to digital tools. This is the result of a recent PISA survey – the OECD International Programme for the Monitoring of Student Achievements, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – conducted in 2015: "guaranteeing each child's acquisition of a basic level of skills in writing comprehension and mathematics seems much more useful for improving equal opportunities in our digital world than expanding or subsidising access to high-tech devices and services. If we need to innovate, then it is above all about the acquisition of fundamentals to combat early school leaving. And other points in this text deserve our vigilance. The dependence on smartphones is increasingly a matter of concern. Doctors sound the alarm: addiction to tablets and smartphones would be dangerous, especially for the younger ones. In France, at least 5% of adolescents are considered "addicted" to screens. According to recent surveys, the time spent by young people on their smartphone would exceed 35 hours per week. A specialist in digital behaviour states: "The misuse of digital technology leads to the fact that one is always in the same world, isolating oneself and indeed it can lead to depressive aspects. » [[Approvals on the benches of the LR group]] We must not overlook the warnings of the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health, the ANSES, about the danger of mobile phones for our children. According to a report published in 2016, electromagnetic waves emitted by mobile phones, tablets or connected toys can affect the cognitive functions – memory, attention, coordination – of children. Experts, who recommend limiting the exposure of young people, have also identified negative effects on well-being – fatigue, sleep disorders, stress and anxiety – that they attribute not to the waves themselves but to too intensive use of the mobile phone. Some studies also appear to associate intensive use of mobile phones by young people with mental health. Based on these findings, ANSES reiterates a recommendation issued in 2013: sticking to a moderate use of mobile phones, particularly targeting children, who are more sensitive to waves for physiological reasons, because, at the level of the brain in particular, some areas still in transformation would be more sensitive to electromagnetic waves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u124	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u125	In the light of these observations, it is important that studies be carried out prior to the widespread use of mobile phones and tablets for educational purposes in our schools. While Parliament is running under a busy schedule of considering successive bills at an unbridled pace, this bill is totally useless because the legislation in force was sufficient, totally inapplicable, because no clarification is given on its implementation, totally secondary to the challenges facing national education in passing on the fundamental gains. It is incredible that, again, we are concerned with the accessory when we should take care of the essentials. You do not take into account the dangers of addiction and the health hazards associated with the use of mobile phones – even if you were out of the question, you should have gone to the end. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] For all these reasons, of course, we propose that the text be referred back to the committee, which is only a mere act of communication by the majority group and, above all, degrades the current law without giving any appropriate answer, contrary to what you say. This is particularly the case, and I very much regret it, with regard to the problem of student harassment, which is taking place far more outside the classroom. All this is just a tartufferie – but no doubt you want to get us used to Molière. It's not serious. Our national education deserves much better than a debate, in a way, to adopt an already existing text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u127	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u128	Mr. Hetzel, I listened carefully. On several occasions, you have asked for my skills as a professor of law; Since you encourage me to do so, I will answer you on this register before I answer you more politically. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] You have decided to plead the point of the bill. From this point of view, the structure of your speech is exactly the same as that which I noted at Mr Reiss: you devoted your first part to explaining that the text is useless and your second part to explain, in reality – but perhaps without realizing it – its relevance. You have indeed shown us how important it is to act to prevent the negative uses of the mobile phone, which exist in fact. [[Same movements]] My speech will be much shorter than yours, and I may even be more concerned than you at the time of the Members. Indeed, I am a little surprised that, while we complain of wasting time on national representation with a text on a very important social issue, you spent a lot of time on formal issues and finally not much on substantive issues. I will therefore structure my remarks into two brief parts, and the first part will deal with the law. First, yes, the function of the right is to clarify, and that is what it does here. With your arguments, for example, we would not have changed the French Constitution on the question of the French language as the language of the Republic, because we could have used the same argument: it already existed. Yes, sometimes the law has to say things clearly and clearly, and that's what it does here. Secondly, what the law has done, only the law can undo it. Because the current wording of the education code is not satisfactory, we must change it. However, the current measure has been included in the legislative part of the Education Code. Since this wording is not satisfactory, we are amending it. From a strictly legal point of view, it was therefore unavoidable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u129	Except we didn't want to change the measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u130	The only argument you could argue is that the new wording is equivalent to the previous one. But that's not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u131	It's not as good as it is, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u132	On the substance, we can discuss it, it is the subject of parliamentary debates. But we believe that our wording is better because it introduces a prohibition of principle, which will help to correct the problem that you yourself have noted, that is, mobile phones are prohibited in some colleges only. Third very important legal argument: this bill allows us to go further to clarify elements such as the pedagogical use of the mobile phone. If it also causes, as you have hoped, an expanded debate on the public health issues posed by mobile phones, so much the better! It will, in a way, be an additional virtue. In any event, there were deep legal reasons for legislation. There is no point in wasting too much time on the issue. You yourself said, Mr Hetzel, that the time of national representation should be used usefully. Let us use it to look at the concrete reality: many colleges are affected by undesirable uses of the mobile phone. That is what we want to remedy. In addition, we will put in place mechanisms through this law. In the vade-mecum I mentioned earlier, we will clarify how we can not only consider possible exceptions but above all implement the law. You mentioned the lockers, a system that I encourage, and thought the students would be surprised. I don't believe it because they see these lockers permanently in the TV series: the locker room has practically become the virtual commonplace of all the children and teenagers in the world. Moreover, in addition to being useful, it already exists in some establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u133	With the money from the departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u134	Of course, this will be done whenever the departmental councils want to – note that they have taken initiatives in this direction very often. One of the virtues of this law will certainly be that there will be more in the future. I repeat, the presence of lockers will have consequences in the chain: they will allow to deposit not only the mobile phone but also the books, which will lighten the bags. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] To list all the induced virtues that we can expect would take too long. But I understand, Mr. Hetzel, that you consider him very valuable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u135	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u136	In committee, Mr Hetzel, you accused us of cynicism. Now you're blaming us for brewing the wind, that we're chattering. I am surprised at your bad faith because I cannot believe for a moment that you do not understand the stakes of this text and the spirit of what we are trying to propose today. We have a principle of a clear, general prohibition, which will have the merit of providing a legal basis for institutions without, however, going against their autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u137	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u138	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We also open permission to use the mobile phone for educational purposes. As Mr Blanquer has pointed out at the moment, the fact that this issue is made public has already made it possible to free up the initiatives of teachers. This is the only point that warrants us to invite you to debate the text at the sitting right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u140	On the motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Antoine Savignant, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u141	We are debating the ban on mobile phones in schools and colleges in front of schoolchildren and college students who, from the stands, have MPs plunged into their mobile phones in front of them. If mobile phones disturb as much as they say, these Members are likely to be threatened by a future ban. The addictions concern us, too, and I am not sure that we are setting the perfect example for these children. But the subject is not here. Madam rapporteur, you have just said that this text is "bringing the wind" – an expression that you are the only one who has used. We argued not that the issue was not a debate but that it did not have to be dealt with within the framework of the law. This subject has to be dealt with, in particular by the administration, with the educational community, particularly with regard to its greatest concern: to have the means to control, enforce and implement the ban which may be desirable. However, in the course of the debate, the bill, which was intended to be useless, futile or a tool of diversion, is quite worrying, since we have heard in the mouth of the Minister of National Education that the prohibition becomes the principle. If we enter the twenty-first century, into the era of progress, saying that, for national education, prohibition becomes the principle, I am very worried, I am telling you. Indeed, when we ban ourselves, we failed to educate. And this law does not concern itself with the means that we must give to national education to educate our children, including the use of new technologies. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and LR groups]] For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u142	[[Smile]] Mr Savignat, you will have noticed that this morning I had the delicacy of getting up on a perch without my mobile phone, which I thought was best given the subject on the agenda. Mrs Sabine Rubin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u143	This bill has the merit of putting the debate on the relationship between digital communication tools and schools, not on digital communication tools in schools. School is not out of society; On the other hand, while its mission is to socialize young people, it must be socialized for society, both present and future. We all know – this has been mentioned many times here – that digital tools have an impact not only on young people but also on adults. These tools have an effect on young people long before they enter school. A ban will therefore have no impact on the attention of young people or on their malice – which is not in the tool but in the user. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] Referring the text back to committee could therefore not make it possible to adjust the text to the margin, but to ask the real question, that of education: what school do we want in the digital society?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u145	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u146	The law in force provides that "the use of a mobile phone during the entire teaching activity and in the places provided for by the rules of procedure, by a student, is prohibited". The tool therefore exists, but, as you have said, minister, in a large number of colleges, this clear section of the law does not apply or is being misapplied. The problem we need to work on is there, in the application of the article of the code. Why does this measure not apply? Is this a let go of the educational teams? I don't dare think about it, having too much admiration for our teachers and school managers. Is it a lack of resources, training, information, education? We have to ask ourselves all these questions and why it doesn't work everywhere, since the law is clear. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LR and NG groups]] A referral to committee, I think, could allow us to work on these issues, thus improving the law and dealing with an indispensable issue. The addiction to mobile phones, sometimes with children of a very young age, which has extremely important consequences, must lead us to pose the real problems: why does not the legislation, which is clear, apply in all institutions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u147	The next speaker is Mr Cédric Roussel, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u148	The subject has already been dealt with. We have organised more than twenty hearings, including the last one yesterday on the more specific subject of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u149	I was there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u150	Colleagues in your group, Mr Hetzel, were present and were able to ask their questions to all those interviewed. Responding to educational and school life issues, addressing the lack of digital coaching that leads to misuse, preventing our children from accessing violent scenes on their phones, advocating their right to disconnect from school time, all this is, in your opinion, just a communication operation. For my part, I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u151	It already exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u152	If we have amended the bill, it is to better regulate its use. I will not repeat Gabriel Attal's excellent comments on the implementation of the presidential programme. We have already discussed this text in committee, through hearings and by examining its provisions. If you had participated, Mr Hetzel, you would have noticed that we have already discussed everything you have mentioned: we have listened to the protagonists of the field, and it is with them that we have built the version now under discussion. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If this text is to be discussed again, it is here, in the Chamber, not in committee. That is why the La République en marche group will vote against the motion for referral.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u153	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u154	Mr Philippe Gosselin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u155	This is a real subject: no one challenges the difficulty posed not only by the introduction of mobile phones in school but also by their use in everyday life; It can be a real wound. Like Janus, the phone can cause the worst and the best. But, because we are in the twenty-first century, we believe that banning is not the best way to proceed, especially since a text already exists. As you said, minister, we share in a way your diagnosis, but we really differ on the solutions to be made. Of course, the parallelism of forms and competences is worth it: what the law has done, the law must undo it. But, in this case, we are challenging the need to undo the law because the framework offered by it seems to us to be sufficiently flexible. Indeed, it gives the necessary arguments for the rules of procedure to prohibit or not portable and tablets, depending on the institutions, educational teams, their projects. Why want to add law to the law, a right to a right that is already sufficiently clear? In 1992, the Council of State produced an excellent report on the "legislative and regulatory logo." We are here in the midst of logorrhea, while Parliament has so many other things to do. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In addition, an information mission on schools in the digital society has been set up in order to deepen the question of the use of digital technology, its development and its appropriation by the educational community, children and young people. If you wanted to change the law so much, minister, could you not at least wait for the conclusions that this mission must make in September to integrate them into a broader set, including the use of digital technology, the risks of addiction and the other real issues that arise?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u156	Mrs Nadia Essayan, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u157	The whole argument of the group The Republicans aims to demonstrate that this text is of no use.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u159	Why, therefore, want to refer him back to committee and reopen work already done? [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] For the rest, my argument will be the same as for the rejection motion. The text, as amended and as it will be during the review of the articles, will be useful to all teachers, teachers and heads of institutions, waiting for firm support to strengthen their authority when faced with incivility. We are well aware that teachers often have to undergo inappropriate behaviour by children, or even confrontations with parents. In this case, it is essential that we express clear support for the educational community. We will therefore vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u160	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u161	The next speaker is Mrs Béatrice Descamps, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u162	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For the same reasons as before, our group will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u163	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u164	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u165	I ask for a suspension of the meeting on behalf of my group, since the explanations given to us by the Government merit reflection. Since they are absolutely unsatisfactory, members of my group want to discuss them together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u166	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u167	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u168	In the general debate, Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u169	This morning, the majority presented us with a text on the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges. We too consider it unnecessary and do not understand its inclusion on the agenda – but it seems that we do not understand each other. This proposal from you is useless because, as we have said for almost two hours, the use of the mobile phone in class is already regulated. Article L. 511-5 of the Education Code, which everyone has mentioned, states: "In kindergartens, elementary schools and colleges, the use of a mobile phone during any teaching activity and in places provided for by the rules of procedure, by a pupil, is prohibited. This provision, adopted in 2010, within the framework of the Grenelle 2 Act, was then part of an approach to protecting public health, in order to reduce the exposure of children to electromagnetic waves emitted by radio apparatus. Since then, we have all been able to observe how high the risks were and how the intensive use of the mobile phone resulted in relationship problems, problems with concentration, memory and learning, and made the teaching reality of our teachers even more complex. It is a fact: all these uses create isolation, which we are trying to fight against. This is probably why about half of the colleges have already included in their regulations the prohibition of mobile phones in class or even in all or part of the playground. In order to improve the school climate, you want to reverse the logic that prevails in the law in force: instead of a principle of authorisation, with exceptions, the text proposes a principle of prohibition, accompanied by exceptions. You will agree that this change is purely cosmetic, or rhetorical, and that it does not give any practical tools to school leaders, teams and teachers to deal with the countless conflict situations created by the "fulgurant breakthrough" – as it is written in the report – of the mobile phone and its addictive uses. We believe that your proposal for a law is unnecessary because, as is already the case, it will be up to the management team of each institution to specify, in its rules of procedure, the places of prohibition and the sanctions, and above all to implement the practical modalities of this ban. It is not with the principle that adults fight tirelessly in our institutions, but with the difficulties of implementing it, of having it accepted and respected by students and often even by families. Because the use of telephones and screens asks us all about our own contradictions. A former teacher in a vocational school, I know the difficulty of introducing new teaching practices while guaranteeing serenity in the place of teaching. Thus, this text does not solve the logistical problems faced by the establishments. Currently, at a minimum, it is requested that the cell phone be locked in a backpack or bag, a rule that is difficult to enforce. A maxima, it is forbidden to bring the phone to school, a rule that can be problematic for college students dependent on school transport and which is far from being admitted by the parents themselves, often connected to their phone from morning to evening. You also mentioned, Minister, the possibility of installing lockers in which telephones can be placed at the beginning of the course. But let's imagine a college of 1000 students: for example, in the one my daughter attended, in Tournon-sur-Rhône, the head of the school had to deal with the problem of lockers for books and bags on a daily basis, insufficient in number, regularly degraded, unmanageable for supervisors. Are we going to ask the students to put their phones in a box when they get to college? How to store them, secure them, differentiate them and then return them to their owner at the end of the courses? Who, in the institution, and with what additional time allocation, will be responsible for this follow-up, while supervisors are already insufficient to perform their duties on a daily basis? Moreover, if confiscation is allowed as a preventive measure in schools, it is only allowed for dangerous objects, which is not the case for telephones, in any case not until the Government redefines new priorities for health risks. Finally, if the rules of procedure provide for confiscation as a punishment, it may be annulled by the administrative court if it exceeds a certain period of time, on the ground that it is contrary to the right to property. This is a precise and concrete clarification to which you do not provide a new answer. However, you want to go even further, an amendment proposing to extend the ban on mobile phones to teachers. If adopted, the entire educational community in schools and colleges will be prohibited from using their mobile phones in schools except in "places where, under the conditions specified in the rules of procedure, it is expressly authorized". You justify this by the need to "return to our young people an image of exemplaryness." It would be an act of distrust of the educational community. Putting teachers and adults on the same diet as underage students reinforces the confusion of each other's roles. In an institution, ladies and gentlemen, the example is not to put adults on the same footing as children or adolescents. The regulations are made to define the rights and duties of our students. What dictates the conduct of our teachers, beyond their commitment to becoming public servants, is their own moral commitment, the awareness that everyone has of the importance of their mission to young people, the sense that they give to respect for the rules of life and that they try to share with their students. In fact, are we, as parliamentarians, exemplary when we have our eyes on our phones rather than on the speakers of this House? Are we, as parents, when, through exhaustion or neglect, we derogate from our own rules governing the living together family and let us lay our arms on the sacrosanct injunction "no phone at table"? I'm not so sure. In addition, if adopted, this amendment would pose a safety problem in institutions. This would mean depriving school heads, CPEs – the senior education advisors – and their teams of the possibility of using the telephone in cases where safety is at stake, in more or less serious circumstances and where the mobile phone is a working tool. This is obviously much more of the good use, of a rational use of the mobile phone, on which we have to work and make our students think. If we can join you on the need to help young people fight against addiction to the mobile phone and all that this leads to as impoverishment of human relations, as a risk of harassment and harm to the psychological integrity of children, we do not wish, once again, to bring to school the responsibility of the drifts of our society. At the time of the widespread dematerialization of our services and of entire parts of our practices – you support it, moreover, in many areas – your text asks the institutions to operate out of daily realities, without allowing the prohibition set out as a principle to be implemented. The role and place of parents in school architecture; the use of the mobile phone, as well as the development of pedagogical use and new ways of teaching in relation to the emancipatory role of the school; These new dependencies, which we all denounce but for which we are also responsible as adults and educators; the social inequalities that this use can generate: all these absolutely essential social issues deserve first a deep reflection, a substantive debate, and then only legislative or regulatory measures taken in consultation with the entire educational community. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, on Tuesday the President of our Assembly asked the Government to "put order" on the agenda of the National Assembly. We have just sat two consecutive weekends, our sitting this Thursday interrupts the ELAN bill during its consideration and we will sit next week on the reform of vocational training, apprenticeship and unemployment insurance. That is to say, if the parliamentary agenda is sufficiently busy not to come and burden it with an unhelpful bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u170	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u171	... which fundamentally does not change the existing law or solve any of the problems that institutions face. We will have to explain how these three articles – or more – could strengthen republican values within the school, in what way they would provide an answer to the height of our responsibility and the societal challenges we face: our legislative landscape is already under the weight of inapplicable measures and texts that give us a good conscience. So let us take the time to enrich our conclusions on this issue and to open a real discussion with all those who work for the cognitive, psychological and psychological development of our children; Let us find real solutions but, I ask you, let us stop wasting our energy on producing useless energy! [[Applause on the benches of the NG and LR groups]] We will therefore abstain or vote against this text if Amendment No 24 is adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u172	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u173	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking part in a debate which I said earlier was a matter of communication and which, therefore, for those who lack vigilance, is trapped. How? By the binary system I mentioned earlier: are you for or against the cell phone at school? Some newspapers have already dealt with the issue this morning and I have no doubt that news channels will organize debates, that our country will discuss and perhaps even be overwhelmed by a completely absurd discussion. I say here in this gallery that except for a few illuminated ones that it would be good, minister, that you call to order, I do not know a teacher, a principal, a principal or a principal who finds the use of the mobile phone normal in the classroom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u174	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u175	No one finds this useful. In fact, a teacher's first mission is to ensure that silence occurs during the course, that the student is concentrated and that things are done at best. Everything that disturbs must be fought – if you allow me this warlike expression – or at the very least we must find the necessary force of conviction to say to the student: "Now you stop, you put this away and you listen to me! "
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u176	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u177	This is obvious, indeed, which is already enshrined in the Education Code and in most of the regulations of the school boards – I think even that, when this is not the case, such a rule exists everywhere. The problem, as has been said, is how to really put this into practice when you find it difficult to get listened to. The one who talks to you, teacher in professional high school since 1995, has some experience. I am not the only one here – we are a few to have taught and that is what makes your quality, minister: you know the subject, you are also a practitioner. How, for example, when a student refuses to take off his cap early in the morning? I have sometimes had a conflict of almost twenty minutes, at eight o'clock in the morning. I have to say that between eight and eight and twenty, "take your head," as they say vulgarly, with a 17- or 18-year-old boy who refuses to take his hat off, it makes you feel like you're out of school. How, then, can we actually do this? After a while, the tone goes up and you need a supervisor to help you arbitrate or get that student out. That is a concrete situation. [[Smile]] [[Laughs]] Are you planning to legislate against wearing the hat? Don't tremble, Minister! I'll tell you one thing: the Swiss little jet in the canteen is a problem. Have you planned in the coming days a great law to ban the jet of little Swiss, or even fruit in the figure of comrades? It's not good to throw food away! I'm kidding, but it's serious, and it's highly disruptive. Teachers face many challenges. To be respected requires very concrete teaching resources. As I can tell you frankly, your bill does not help our teachers, our teachers, to enforce a provision that already exists. Do we afford the means to have in all schools an adult, a supervisor able to support a teacher faced with a difficulty to be respected? I say here that this is not the case. For example, in the first degree, do a teacher, a teacher facing a violent student, a disruptive student or who uses a mobile phone have the means to call the director – they are usually the ones who take care of this – to intervene in the classroom? As in many schools there are no, or few discharge hours for the latter – they themselves face a class – this raises a whole series of difficulties. Your text does not answer all these problems. But we understood that the debate was trapped. The real question is: how can we ensure that our children, the students, are entitled to disconnections, have a real education about the dangers of the mobile phone? The one who talks to you – like all of you, I have several caps – is a former teacher, but is also a parent of a student. Nothing is more fun than having children whose nose is permanently stuck to the screens, including at home and everywhere else. Does national education – in particular – provide for the development of real education so that teachers themselves know what to do about it? Will there be time to do this? It's important. However, this essential dimension is completely absent from your text. I'm afraid we're content with a simple reaffirmation – that's why I joked earlier. "The great Jean-Michel Blanquer said! Of course, you have some authority that can be effective, minister, but it is not the passage of a bill that will solve the problem of a teacher, a principal of a school, a principal of a college who is in difficulty in the face of parents – because it also happens, as was pointed out earlier – who accuses him of having confiscated a cell phone. I talked about wearing the hat: I was confronted with a conflict with parents because I had asked a student to remove his hat and, after a while, it came to a terrible proportions. In short, we will abstain from this text unless certain amendments are adopted. [[Smile]] To continue in irony, do you make the commitment that, on a forthcoming visit to a school of the President of the Republic or yourself, Minister, you will tell a student who would take out his cell phone to make a selfie with you that it is forbidden?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u178	Well done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u179	Not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u180	[[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] We will then see how effectively you use this law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u181	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u182	Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law submitted to us today by the Group of the European People's Party makes the ban on mobile phones the rule in schools, except where the regulation expressly authorizes it. Is that not already the case? In its current version, the Act provides that: "In kindergartens, elementary schools and colleges, the use of a mobile phone is prohibited during any educational activity and in places provided for by the rules of procedure, by a student. What, moreover, is the usefulness of a law that merely recalls what the regulations of schools can already establish? According to this bill, the telephone will be prohibited even outside the teaching hours, except in the places defined by the rules of procedure. It merely reversed the wording of the ban: before, the rules of procedure provided for the prohibition of the mobile phone; From now on, he must provide where he is authorized. I do not believe that this new wording will solve the problem of the effective implementation of the law, which requires education, pedagogy, training and means. However, I would point out the few contributions that have been made in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, with the inclusion of an educational component, even though the bill does not include any compulsory training, which is why I pleaded in committee. The proper use of the mobile phone is indeed a subject that deserves our full attention. We know the dangers of addiction, but amending an article of law – while the ban was already possible with the previous wording – without any additional measures is not a solution and it is a little bit, as the Federation of Parents' Councils of Pupils – FCPE – points out, to leave the care of families alone to accompany children and, above all, adolescents, in the use of digital tools. This text is therefore very limited in scope by not offering real new tools to school directors and directors and, above all, by taking into account the practices that are already common in institutions: in fact, mobile phones are already often banned in buildings and, in many cases, in the courtyard. By intervening at the legislative level, this suggests that there are gaps in the regulations of the institutions and it would not be necessary – even if I know that this is not what the majority wants – to give the impression that we do not trust the teaching teams. Our objective must obviously be the opposite: the affirmation of their authority; In order to do this, especially in colleges, the use of mobile phones must be supervised, adapted to the age of the students and accompanied by an educational component. In addition, it should be noted that article 1 of the draft law is intended to prohibit the use of telephones in all schools, from kindergarten to college. No distinction is made between a 5-year-old and a 14-year-old, whereas their use of the telephone is obviously not the same. For example, it is normal – it is even obvious – that a child in kindergarten or primary school does not have a telephone: the total ban is justified. In college, the situation is a little different and a 13 or 14 year old can, I believe, by being accompanied in an educational process, use his phone in a reasonable, responsible and not excessive way in the college yard without the need for a total ban. The role of the school is also – and above all – to participate in the education of students. As with drug-related risks, for example, annual training should be provided to students, adapted to their age groups, to explain good digital practices, especially on social networks. The bill will be incomplete if it is not accompanied by a concrete part in educational matters because the use of the mobile phone does not stop at the door of the school. I would add that a total ban on the use of the telephone, poorly understood by college students, could prevent an effective approach by teaching teams to define the conditions of use of the telephone according to the needs and expectations of the students. The challenge is not to ban – apart from school time and wherever its use is the most problematic – but to empower the use of the telephone. The text therefore lacks ambition. The amendments voted in committee gave it a little more content, but the GDR Group wants to go further: this is the subject of the amendment which we are proposing and which is perfectly in line with the education code. Since I have time left, I'd like to go back to cyberharassment. Teenagers and adolescents need to be aware of the issues associated with the latter, both to prevent risks and to support potential victims. Six per cent of college students are victims of cyberharassment. With the continued use of new communication technologies, student harassment continues outside the school premises. The term "cyberharassment" is defined as "an aggressive, intentional act perpetrated by an individual or a group of individuals through electronic forms of communication, repeatedly against a victim who cannot easily defend himself or herself." "E-bullying is done via mobile phones, instant messaging, forums, online games. It must be integrated into the policy of prevention and anti-harassment in schools." These comments, taken from the website of the Ministry of National Education, confirm our position with regard to this text. There is a need to promote a constructive approach based on learning good behaviour on the Internet. This is all the more important because the news is full of topics that put in perspective the drifts related to the use of social networks and data that we leave on the Internet. Do I need to recall the case involving the British strategic consulting company that acquired the data of millions of people registered on Facebook? It is therefore essential to raise awareness among adolescents of the risks posed by social networks. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] For all these reasons, the GDR Group will pay particular attention to the follow-up to its amendment in order to decide on its vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u184	Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u185	Mr President, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, tabled by our group – The Republic on its way – aims to regulate the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges. This is a commitment made by the President of the Republic during his campaign, which we wish to implement. First of all, I want to make it clear that this bill is part of a much broader perspective. While its purpose is to frame the use of telephones in schools and colleagues, with the exception of teaching practices, this text is inextricably linked to a strengthening of digital education and responsible use of the Internet and social networks. This framework recognizes the crucial societal challenges of children's use of mobile phones. According to a survey published in 2016, sixth grade students spend six hours a day in front of a screen, whatever it is – TV, computer, phone, tablet. The use of the phone is multiplied and the simple call function is now out of date. Instead, the smartphone is used to download apps, navigate the web, take videos and discuss instantly, via different types of messaging. This limits the essential activities related to the good development of children and adolescents. I will not go back to the adverse health effects that this can have, from sleep disorders to diminished attention and concentration capabilities. You yourself stressed yesterday, Minister, during the question-and-answer session to the Government that the abuse of screens before the age of 7 was very dangerous and could have an impact on the concentration of children. We are therefore convinced that students must have a right to disconnect during school time, in order to encourage exchanges between them. To frame this text is also to respond to educational and school life issues. The lack of supervision of the use of the telephone is at the root of the misuse of digital technology, because our children are too often exposed to violent or even pornographic content. They may also be victims of cyber-harassment: a child filmed by one of his or her comrades during a class or during recreation can be found on social networks. Modestly, I will allow myself to quote Albert Einstein: "It has unfortunately become evident today that our technology has surpassed our humanity. » However, the school must teach the right uses of digital technology and learn to avoid the wrong ones. That is why we must enable children to understand their digital environment and teach them how to use the Internet and social networks responsibly. In short, this first text tends to limit negative, perverse, harmful effects in school. I say "first text", because this is a first step. We fix the first fruits here. In a second stage, it will be relevant that we all take an interest in the pedagogical uses of digital tools, which are a real opportunity in learning methods. It is essential to create and structure the many innovative pedagogy initiatives that are now being carried out in our schools. It is essential to raise students' awareness of the use of digital technology and to deepen their teaching. In this way, we will learn from the fact-finding mission led by Bruno Studer, Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, on school in the digital society. As part of this mission, we work in particular on the training of young people, the responsible use of digital information, the awareness of fake news and the manipulation of information and, finally, the responsible use of networks. We are also working to define the place of the school in the learning of know-how and the construction of know-how. This mission, which will make its conclusions at the end of the summer, is intended to reflect on the school of tomorrow to accompany the teaching teams, teachers, parents, but especially the students, often deprived of the media and digital tools. It is therefore a continuation of this bill, which aims to promote a more peaceful school climate. This law regulating the use of telephones in schools is an opportunity to raise awareness of the upheavals caused by digital technologies. If the supervision for pupils is clear, one point is debated within the public opinion and therefore logically within the Parliament: of course I want to talk about the extension of this supervision to the educational community.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u186	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u187	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister, we look forward to having a discussion with you this morning on this bill, which has emerged from many consultations, both on the ground and during the hearings. This question must be asked and be everyone's business.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u188	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u189	Mr President, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill tabled by the Republic on the move aims to ban the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges, which is in line with Emmanuel Macron's campaign promise – as we have already said and you have confirmed. However, as you know, there is already the law of 12 July 2010, which states: "In kindergartens, elementary schools and colleges, the use during any teaching activity and in places provided for by the rules of procedure, by a student, of a mobile phone is prohibited. » In considering the text in committee, I also expressed to you my feeling that the bill did not introduce a ban but instead created the conditions for authorizing the use of mobile phones as part of the teachings. As such, the rewriting of Article 1e r in committee confirmed my sentiment, and I thank the rapporteur for at least trying to clarify the text a little, which, given the size of the bill, could have been done from the outset. It now appears that telephones are allowed for "pedagogical uses". The ban on the use of telephones during lessons, which has been in force since 2010, is therefore well removed. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LR group]] Therefore, apart from teaching, the use of telephones in institutions will now be prohibited, except where permitted, whereas until now it has been permitted except where prohibited. I'd almost lose my Latin, as complicated as it gets. The Republicans Group remains sceptical about this amendment to the law, which, unfortunately, looks in reality like a communication operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u190	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u191	Indeed, I do not see what this rewriting will change to the problems of the practical application of the ban faced by teachers and managers. Apart from this revolutionary rewriting! The proposal has been supplemented by two additional articles on digital teaching, which I consider unnecessary. Article 121-1 of the Education Code states that schools, colleges and high schools "contribute to civic responsibility education". What needs to be added: "including in the use of internet and online public communication services"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u192	It's a display!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u193	The concept of "civil responsibility" is already understood broadly. What will be the next step? Should it be specified: "including in public transport" or "including in public places"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u194	This text is absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u195	As for the new article 3, he said that teachers would now train students to use digital tools and resources in a "responsible" way. I am sure that the teachers who, so far, trained the students in an "irresponsible" way, will appreciate this clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u196	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u197	As for "digital citizenship", it is a vague concept, without a legal basis, which has nothing to do with the education code.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u198	And when it's blurred, there's a wolf!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u199	You really have the art and the way to use complicated words to give the impression of 3D where it's flat. Let us now turn to the central point of your bill, the authorization "for educational purposes". You said, Madam rapporteur, that no other legislation was foreseen on this issue, but you also said that this text was the "first floor of a rocket". You added: "We are waiting for the findings of the information mission on the school in the digital society. So a parliamentary reflection is under way on this subject and will be the subject of conclusions in the summer or autumn which will probably make it possible to build a broader reflection on the educational dimension", which is very much like the announcement of another text. We would therefore like the majority to be clear. Either another text is planned, in which case there is no point in legislating now without a comprehensive approach to digital at school, or there is no one, and then this text misses all the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u200	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u201	Firstly, at the pedagogical level, the report does not at any time mention the pedagogical advantages of lifting the ban.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u203	We just say that the phones are there, and so we have to allow them, which seems to me to be a poor justification. For example, the prohibition works well in private, to my knowledge. Then, what is meant by "pedagogical uses"? If it is a question of being able to use telephones in French or history classes from now on, we clearly lack information on the benefits of digital at school. Minister, with the support of the state, all departments have just invested millions of euros in digital tablets: what are they for, if you want to use the phone?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u205	This was the case in Corrèze, since we were lucky enough to have Mr Hollande – and besides, if I remember correctly, Mr Macron was then part of the government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u206	[[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] All right? I don't remember!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u207	Mr Hollande has invested EUR 10 million in our department for tablets. What are they for today? Before you want to add smartphones or connected watches, you may need to do a survey of the initiatives underway in the territories and have a look at the educational benefits of the tablets. I'm not even talking about the practical issues, which are not settled. What about parents who don't want their children to have or use phones? Will the classrooms be equipped with a sufficient number of sockets to be able to recharge them? Should a 4G package be included in the school supply lists?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u208	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, let us show some common sense before we legislate. The Republican Group would like explanations from the majority as to whether to discuss this bill now, for the beginning of 2018-2019. The ban that has been the rule for eight years seems to have never been a problem. We therefore do not understand the urgency of legislating to rewrite the law with a view to implementing it as soon as next fall. Finally, as the parliamentary shuttle is expected to take several months, this text is likely to come into effect when the boards of directors of schools and colleges have already voted on their rules of procedure, so they will have to rewrite and reissue them. The other major issue, and it is essential, is public health. The Republicans Group believes that the use of mobile phones in education needs to be seriously studied before it can be authorised, which is not the case to date. While the addiction of young people to smartphones and social networks is the subject of alerts, giving the green light to national education for the use of telephones during teaching, without serious long-term study, can have serious consequences for health. We have been informed that this last issue will soon be the subject of consultation with the Minister of Health, which confirms that it is a question of allowing it even before it becomes aware of the risks. During the hearings, to which you and I were present, the rapporteur, the officials of the Ministry of Health informed us that the International Centre for Research on Cancer considered that radiofrequency electromagnetic fields could be carcinogenic to humans. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to allow the use of mobile phones at school, when we do not know the danger that this may pose to the health of our children. Knowing this, and in the absence of definitive studies, the Republican Group cannot endorse the use of mobile phones in schools as part of the teachings. Madam rapporteur, your report contains an entire page on these health risks. I know that the question matters to you; Also, before lifting the ban, don't you think we need to ask the right questions about the long-, medium- and short-term effect? Yesterday, at 17:30, we heard from the agents of the Directorate-General for Health, who told us that they had referred the matter to the High Council for Public Health so that a study could be carried out on the consequences – positive or negative – of the addiction of our children to screens. I'm going to be a bit of a cartoon: we do prevention on road safety, on drug use, without students driving or smoking. Your bill is about the prevention of the use of mobile phones. So I think we can do this without allowing mobile phones in school. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Therefore, to the extent that no evidence has been provided to us as to the benefits and the absence of danger of the teaching use of the telephone in classes, the Republicans Group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u210	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u211	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President of the Committee, Mrs LaREM, ladies and gentlemen, by placing this text on the agenda of our committee, the LaREM Group has allowed exchanges to take place during its examination, which we consider to be perfectly constructive and interesting. The text that came out of it proves this, since it has evolved substantially by incorporating various clarifications and proposals from our colleagues. The starting point of this text – the framework for the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges – has in fact given rise to important debates about what each of us meant by "supervisors" and more broadly about the place of the digital tool in schools and the contact of students. What, at first glance, appeared to be a slight modification of the existing system – we agree – allowed us to discuss the subject, which is often raised by the minister himself – we thank him – of the use of digital tools and screens by the students and a fortiori by the youngest of them. Indeed, both the explanatory memorandum to the bill and the report by Mrs Racon-Bouzon rightly point out that there are many reasons for the ban and for the removal of persons from the country and that they relate to educational, health and social issues as well. From a strictly formal point of view, the new wording will provide establishment directors with greater legal certainty in their day-to-day monitoring of the misuse of the mobile phone. While there were few problematic cases, there was a need to address a situation that could sometimes give rise to concerns and difficulties. The framework is thus strengthened. In its new wording, the text introduces new provisions, making it clear, for example, that the prohibition does not cover cases of use for educational purposes. In this case, it is up to the teacher to determine the circumstances in which this use may be useful. Articles 2 and 3, for their part, concentrate all provisions relating to education and the use of such materials and tools. There is an urgent need to act on this side so that students make reasonable and measured use of digital tools, in order to reap the greatest benefit and avoid the pitfalls. From an educational point of view, the documentation is now sufficiently provided to enable us to state that we need to be vigilant about the impact of screens on students. Whether it is memorization, reflection and cognitive development, it is obvious that the light on these screens influences these qualities, which are known, through the teachers, to be increasingly degraded. As you often recall, minister: education does not need screens before the age of 6, the time for the child to develop harmoniously. Serge Tisseron's studies stress the importance for the child not to be constantly stimulated by screens. Cognitive damage, as well as physiological development, is proven. Public health is another issue that we must be aware of. We know that the reduction in physical activity due to monopolization of free time by mobile phones exacerbates the problems of overweight, which are growing among younger generations. Similarly, myopia affects 47% of the 25-29 age group in Europe, twice as much as it did 40 years ago. Sleep is also affected, with a delay in falling asleep and consequences on each of the points mentioned above. Finally, in addition to public health problems, it should be recalled that the measure is also educational. Many teachers complain about the intensive use of telephones in the classroom, despite the instructions and sometimes even the prohibitions mentioned in the internal regulations of the institutions. Giving visibility to this text in the media should send a clear message, both to teachers, to provide them with political support, and to parents of students to raise awareness of this initiative and allow them to interact with their children as needed. Phones also lead to an increase in violence and incivility in institutions because of the desire they can create in each other. The increase in incivility has also been confirmed by the school principals' union, according to which 30% to 40% of school sanctions are now linked to the use of the mobile phone in the classroom, if the incivilities in the playground are not taken into account. All the reasons given for the prohibition in principle lead us to justify the measures voted in committee and supported by a large majority of Members. National education, and more broadly society as a whole – the family, parents, the media – have a role to play in educating our children's media. The amendments to the Education Code are clearly in line with this, and it is important that we ensure that they are properly translated into national education programmes. The work is already largely done by teachers, as we know perfectly well, both in civic education and in raising awareness of the dangers of the Internet, but there should be learning in the use of these tools. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we can see, this proposal for a law on the prohibition of mobile phones calls for developments that go far beyond this mere device. The school must remain a place where one learns to behave in society, to develop one's faculties and to learn, without interference of any kind. It is also appropriate that, on this subject, we should take ambitious action to make our children citizens ready to exercise their critical spirit. The use of the Internet and the means to access it requires both practical and ethical learning, so that our children can be concerned about their freedom and respect for human dignity. On all these issues, you can count on the support of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, which will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u212	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u213	Mr President, Mr President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing in open session a bill aimed, if not at prohibiting, at least to further regulate the use of mobile phones in schools. For historical and symbolic reasons, the school plays a fundamental role in our republican pact, of which it is one of the most sacred pillars. Because the school trains the citizens of tomorrow, its proper functioning, the quality and the content of the teachings given there, the possible deterioration of the school climate – in short everything that affects the school from close or far – acquires a particular resonance. So it is the place of screens: whether it is televisions, mobile phones or digital tablets, screens occupy an ever greater place in our lives, not only in the workplace but also in the home. So we are constantly solicited and ultra-connected, with beneficial consequences – we are better informed and sometimes closer to our families – but also harmful – our attention is constantly caught up and distracted by multiple demands, sometimes at the expense of concrete reality. If questions about our dependence on this third hand, which has become our mobile phone, affect society as a whole, they are of particular importance in the context of the school. The challenge is first of all that of student attendance and its corollary, the school climate. It is known how the use of mobile phones during classes affects the concentration and attention capacity of students. At the same time it obliges the teacher to a constant discipline, to the detriment of the conduct of his course. The unreasoned use of mobile phones leads, moreover, to phenomena of self-absorbing and a fadious sociability. During recreation, children are now focused on their smartphones instead of exchanging and playing with their peers. In extreme cases, the use of the smartphone can lead to situations of cyber-harassment, in which a student can make the expense of the mockery of his comrades, sometimes with dramatic consequences. Finally, it is a public health issue, as the potentially harmful effects of radio frequencies emitted by mobile phones remain unclear. A 2017 study highlighted a connection between the intense use of a smartphone and the risk of mental health among young adolescents. Their sleep is disturbed by the blue light of the screens, which slows down the production of melatonin – the hormone of sleep – and their sight deteriorates as the screens dry up their eyes and aggravate latent disorders like myopia. Other studies have also reported the links between the intensive use of mobile phones and the loss of certain cognitive functions such as memory and attention capacity. In a 2016 study, ANSES recommended reducing exposure to radio frequencies for the most vulnerable populations, including children. The operative part of the bill rewrites the education code to make the prohibition of the use of mobile phones in schools the norm and to specify its authorized uses. In this sense, it replaces the current text, introduced by the 2010 Act. The Committee on Cultural Affairs has, moreover, usefully clarified its scope, excluding persons with a disability or a health condition from the scope of application and for whom the use of such an object is an absolute necessity; We are of course in favour of it. Any freedom is left to the school to determine places within the school where the use of the mobile phone is permitted and thus to regulate its use according to the habits and needs of the students, allowing them, for example, to make necessary calls in certain clearly identified places – while knowing that colleges and schools have always allowed students to call their parents from the fixed lines of the administrative services where necessary; This is how the world worked before children had smartphones at such an early age. The Commission also added several provisions to the original single article. On the one hand, they aim to strengthen the education of children on the use of the Internet, but also to train them more for responsible use of social networks. It is indeed fundamental that they bear in mind that the words that are offensive or hateful, racist or sexist spoken online, if they can have an unreal appearance and without apparent consequences on the Internet, nevertheless affect very real people; The unfortunately too many examples of adolescents who have ended their lives illustrate this. What is sent on the web in three seconds and a slide of thumb can have irremediable consequences on others, on oneself and on his future. The Commission has also added another purpose to this digital education, that of developing children's critical thinking in the face of online media. It is about learning how to better detect false information and conspiracy theories, which flourish on the internet and erode confidence in our democratic institutions. We can only subscribe to these additions. It is very sensible for the school to deal with these issues, in close contact with families, as much as the question of our relationship to screens is of interest to society as a whole and not just to the school. However, we would like to make a reservation, without prejudging, of course, what will happen to the debate planned for the new school year on digital education, when we are aware of the conclusions of the fact-finding mission on school in the digital society. We are not convinced, in fact, that the use of mobile phones should be encouraged in the context of school teaching, because today not all parents have the financial capacity to offer a smartphone to each of their children and because it seems to us to be in contradiction with the will you have expressed, Minister, to put the fundamentals at the heart of learning. Rather than embarking too much on the path of digitization of teachings, perhaps it would be better to strengthen in our children the taste of reflection and of reading – to read to learn, but also to read beautiful stories, those of books with beautiful illustrations that enrich their literary culture. This appears to be difficult to reconcile with the promotion of mobile phone use. As we know, the economic model of social media applications is based on the attraction of mobile phone users, who often receive fun notifications. However, this permanent and, in some respects, grim state of fun is far removed from the imperatives of concentration, learning and patience of successful school education. It would also be welcome – and this is the meaning of an amendment that we will submit to the Assembly's wisdom – to strengthen the operational dimension of the bill by including in the text the possibility of confiscating mobile phones. We are well aware of the legal difficulties that this measure poses and of the need to keep it temporary and proportionate in nature, in order to ensure that it does not undermine the constitutional principle of the right to property. However, its inclusion in the law would secure the action of school principals wishing to include the measure in the rules of procedure, give weight to the authority of teachers by giving them that opportunity, and prevent any temptation to reoffend. It would also be highly desirable for the return of the mobile phone to take place, if possible, in the presence of the pupil's parents, in order to increase its educational reach. Indeed, it is necessary to involve parents in the scheme in order to make it more effective and to discourage children from contravening the ban. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Our group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u214	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, MODEM, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] As the honourable Member goes up to the rostrum, I greet our young public, the young citizens who have come to attend these debates which are particularly relevant to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u215	[[Laughs]] I hope they applaud me because I'm gonna defend the cell phone at school. Had it been up to me, I would have told you that I am not responsible for establishment and that, had I been, I would have felt that the law was largely sufficient, but that I need means to enforce the mobile phone ban. However, since the problem is more serious – it is true, it cannot be denied – I will elaborate on my point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u216	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u217	This has been said many times: the law guarantees school principals – school principals, college principals – the power to prohibit the use of mobile phones. Why therefore propose a law that reverses logic by prohibiting such use in all establishments unless permitted by the rules of procedure? I thought that it was very likely that in eight years the presence of mobile phones in schools had increased exponentially and that, in the face of this explosion, school officials who had chosen to ban the use of mobile phones were deprived when it came to enforcing the ban. But how would a general ban allow for better application than a rules of procedure? This seems to us to be very paradoxical, coming from the majority, rather inclined, in general, to disengage the State from all fields of society. If institutions were to be helped to enforce their rules – and that would really be the role of the state – rather than passing a law, we would give them the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u218	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u219	We would increase the number of staff in school life, including education assistants – AED –; we would give them a real status and we would train them – because it is now necessary – to enforce this famous regulation and explain its meaning. What kind of penalty will offenders face under a law that cannot already be applied in the rules of procedure? A ticket? Once again, repression is preferred to pedagogy. In our view, this law is not necessary; It's more like a gadget or even demagogy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u221	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u222	However, the text has the merit of asking a number of questions which go beyond the legal framework, but which it is legitimate to raise. This is first of all a reflection – which you are leading very well, Minister – on the digital transition in education. Here, a flash mission is dedicated to this subject; I imagine that, in its conclusions, we will see the need to properly equip schools with adequate facilities. I am echoing the words of a teacher who recently asked the minister for computers that took less than five minutes to turn on. Obviously, you remember that, minister. The second question would be: which school in the digital society? This question, of course, opens up an even wider debate, since a new technique is never neutral: it always involves social, environmental and even anthropological effects. The technical upheavals we have experienced for twenty years have produced such effects, beyond the mobile phone and beyond the school, even if they question this one. Macron reminded him that school is a reflection of society. [[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] In fact, it's not just at school that we're beset with various messages that prevent us all from being focused, attentive and really listening to others. This is also our case, adults. All we have to do is look at us on these benches: everywhere screens, mobile phones – and chatter, by the way. Thank you for listening!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u223	We are listening to you, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u225	And you don't have a cell phone?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u226	We listen to you with passion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u227	Good, then I'll keep going! You will tell me that the effects on attention are more pronounced in children and adolescents, especially when it comes to learning; But, in terms of attention, the problem, as you know, goes beyond the phone. Neuroscientists, pedagogues, all specialists highlight the problems of attention and concentration that can result from screens or the saturation of information of all kinds – especially visual and auditory – that children can hardly escape. How, in fact, can we put an end to the incessant stimuli of television, computer screens and even posters that pollute the streets – such as, from now on, advertising screens? This is for attention and concentration – a real problem, indeed, in school, but not only.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u228	I will ask you to conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u229	With regard to sociability, it is also apparent that mobile phones and other digital communication tools have very quickly changed the modes of sociability throughout society, far beyond the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u231	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] As for malice, it is due, it seems to me, not to the use of the phone, but to its user.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u232	You see, dear colleague, we applaud you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u233	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u234	First of all, I would like to congratulate my two colleagues from the La République on their excellent work, Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon, rapporteur, and Mr Cédric Roussel, spokesman for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u236	This text, which may seem to some to be of little or no importance, is actually full of great pragmatism, a lot of common sense, and responds to a strong expectation from the educational community. It aims, as a first step, to frame the use of mobile phones by kindergarten-to-college students and, as a second step, to strengthen training and raise students' awareness of the use of digital resources. Studies and figures describing the evolution of mobile phone use among young people are non-appealable. In 2017, 86% of young people aged 12 to 17 were equipped with a smartphone. This number has quadrupled in six years. The first telephone is obtained at the age of 11, i.e., little or no at the entrance to sixth grade. Originally, the phone is certainly a reassuring tool for parents, since it allows children to contact them in the event of a change of schedule or transportation problem, but with the technological development and arrival of smartphones, our phones have become sophisticated tools that allow us to surf the internet or connect to social networks. Our children are, moreover, very fond of these networks: they register more and more early and spend more and more time there, which ultimately harms their schooling. This technological development raises many questions about the effects that the development and widespread use of the telephone can have on educational and disciplinary aspects and on the school climate. Although the mobile phone can be a great educational tool, its use poses real difficulties in the school environment, mainly during classes, where the constant exchange of messages, for example, undermines the pupils' ability to pay attention and concentrate, but also disrupts the teaching provided to them. In this regard, the Act of 12 July 2010 is no longer sufficient. It is only to approach the subject with teachers, especially college teachers, or with heads of institutions to quickly realize the difficulties they are encountering. This small object represents, for a very large number of teenagers, a mythical object, a little like a dudo for a young child,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u237	A cuddly? Maybe we shouldn't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u238	... a magical object, which replaces many others: the diary, the television, the radio, or the hi-fi channel. Above all, it is an object that allows you to keep in constant contact with your comrades. So don't touch it: it's an object you refuse to separate from, even in class. Let me briefly mention some concrete cases encountered during my teaching career. What to do when Louis, in class, takes pictures of his comrades and posts them on social media? What to say when Justine sends text messages by tens while the teacher is on the board, his back turned? How do I react when Jonathan surfs the internet pretending to use his cell phone calculator? These examples show the need to provide a stronger legal basis for the supervision of mobile phone use, while leaving room for manoeuvre to establishments through the rules of procedure. The latter will expressly define the location and conditions of use of the telephone. It will also define penalties for non-compliance. It is necessary, in fact, to clarify the legal framework in order to reassure teachers and school heads, and to protect them so that they are not deterred from applying sanctions such as confiscation. The legislative path is to secure this use. In addition to school issues, there are public health issues. The effect of radio frequencies on children's health is still poorly known. Exposure to screens can create a high dependence on children, leading to attention and concentration disorders. For the record, it has been proven that when children under the age of 3 are regularly exposed to screens, this creates delays in their development and language. In addition, with the growth of social networks, teachers, heads of schools and parents have to deal with cases of cyber-harassment against some students. The effect of the measure would be to limit, during school days, these threats that can be fueled during school time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u239	On the contrary, since you allow the mobile phone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u240	For these reasons, and with the hindsight that we have today, it seems necessary to include in the law the framework of the use of the mobile phone, with exceptions essentially affecting the teaching use. This will allow students to focus on the teachings, but also to interact with their peers through real exchanges, rather than through interposed screens. In making this campaign promise, the President of the Republic wanted to recall that it is indeed the role of the school to educate children and adolescents, especially regarding the good and bad uses of the telephone,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u241	I will ask you to conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u242	...that it is at school to protect children, especially from addictions, and that it is also within the school that one can develop his critical mind and respect for others. By voting on this bill, as Members of the Republic Group will do, I invite you to protect our children...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u243	They're already protected!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u244	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] ... and to seize this opportunity to offer them a right to disconnect during school time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u245	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u246	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, is really the subject of the text that you are presenting to us today. Every week, you say you're turning our country into a deep one, like no other government before you. Once again, what you are proposing is already enshrined in the law. You only increase the number of prescriptions that are perfectly clear. Don't mind, and even if the provision is certainly too little applied in French schools, the ban on mobile phones in schools has already been enshrined in the law, since the law of 12 July 2010 on national commitment to the environment. Our group had supported this proposal at the time, because we are, of course, quite in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u247	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u248	It is therefore not the proposal for a law introduced by the Republic on the move that introduces a ban, as provided for in the original title of the bill. Your text is to be classified among what our citizens exercise in each legislature more: normative inflation that has no meaning. How, in fact, can we make sense of the addition of Article 2, since civic responsibility is already understood in the broad sense, unless it is also specified in transport or in public places – and the list would be very long? How can we make sense of the addition of Article 3, since teachers already train students in responsible use of digital tools? As for the concept of "digital citizenship", it is a vague concept, without a legal basis, which has nothing to do with the law. You know the expression: when it's blurred, it's because there's a wolf. That is why our colleague Frédérique Meunier, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, will defend deletion amendments which seem to be a matter of common sense. Beyond the fact that the text that the parliamentary majority is submitting to us today is so questionable and contested, we can be surprised at its blatant lack of consistency. First, there is a lack of consistency on form. I will move quickly on to this first point, because it is obvious and the question is settled: how can the word "prohibition" be included in the title of a bill, whereas it is not, and it is much more, in reality, a conditional authorization – which will lead me to my second point? Words have meaning; That is why the title has been changed to a commission. There is, then, a lack of coherence on the substance. Colleagues, how can we, on the one hand, advocate the ban on mobile phones in schools and colleges to combat school harassment, allow for a better concentration of students in class and limit the exposure of young people to malicious and shocking content and, on the other hand, allow mobile phones for educational purposes? How can we make students understand this approach, especially since we cannot turn our backs on the danger of excessive use of the object on the health of our children? While the addiction of young people to smartphones and, via them, to social networks is the subject of increasingly frequent and worrying alerts, you will give the blank of national education to the use of phones without serious study in the long term.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u249	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u250	Finally, there is a lack of consistency on the method. Once again, you want to go fast, but you're going too fast. I want to point out that the bill, which was completely rewritten when it was examined in committee, would be the first floor of a rocket consisting of a set of texts on digital at school. Far from sending us to the moon, this legislative machine can only collapse, if all its floors are made so. Why not wait for the main text to consolidate your proposals and take the time for analysis? I am not even talking about the rafistolage which consists of giving weight to the text by means of amendments which are all legislative riders. It is nevertheless surprising that you reject all our initiatives by invoking a revolutionary text to come when you do not apply the same rule, when it comes from your side.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u251	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u252	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] What a dogmatic and outdated way of doing things, which is that not of the new world that you claim to embody, but of the old. Do not fall into the trap of permanent communication, as was the case in the old world, which you claim to free us from. Abandon these political practices, and you will find us at your side, to really change things and move forward a country that will not wait for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u253	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u254	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Madam rapporteur, as a pupil's parent, I am very much in favour of the possibility of dispelling the screens of primary and secondary school curricula. Your text would therefore be a symbolic step, but it should be welcomed. However, it raises a number of questions that we cannot exclude from the general discussion. First of all, it raises a general question on educational freedom. I have tabled amendments to remind you that if, in my personal capacity, the measure suits me perfectly, I do not think it should become a norm. In fact, it should be primarily for parents, in an elementary framework of respect for the fundamental principles of our country, to decide what pedagogy and regulation they want for their children's school or college. That is why I propose to change the wording of the text from comminatory to incentive. The freedom of schools and colleges must be that of regulatory practices, of flexibility in the sanctions and rewards regime. For example, students' anger and violence between themselves do not date from smartphones. It certainly has much more to do with the degradation of authority and the disappearance of a certain verticality in the transmission of knowledge. I am particularly interested in other aspects of the report. You note with relevance the disproportionate costs of the devices in question and the social segregation generated by student comparisons. Who could make you wrong? In another aspect, how can we not greet the courageous struggle of those who recalled that the uniform, the order, the traditional methods constituted a treasure of pedagogy whose spirit of May 68 unfortunately deprived us? It is this freedom that is lacking in our national education, a freedom that is applied in so many schools, including those outside the contract, that must constantly fight against Jacobine ideological passions. The first part of the report notes that the student is likely to lock himself in a "bubble" because of his concentration on his mobile phone. Everyone knows how addictive these little things can be. However, I would like to go further in our debate. In fact, mobile phones and their disorderly use are part of a complete picture of the relationship between the school institution and the student. Because of their desire to make students self-reliant subjects of education, rather than members of a whole that needs to be taught, it was the schools and colleges themselves that made individualism flourish in primary and secondary education. Let's not blame the instruments instead of the causes. When the explanatory memorandum of the bill also states that "the use of mobile phones is responsible for a significant part of the incivilities and disruptions of establishments: breakage, racket and theft", one can only worry about it. It is not the telephones that are the cause of violence, but the laxity, the enslavement of society and the depreciation of the place of adults and holders of authority. Nokia or Apple have nothing to do with these phenomena. We can't do anything if we try to turn a lithium battery into a scapegoat. It should be borne in mind that children belong to their parents, that they are responsible for their education and that they only agree to delegate part of them to the school institution. In order for them to continue to agree, I think it is good that the school and the college stay as far away as possible from ideologies and biases. I must therefore confess my fear of Article 2, introduced by way of an amendment. In my view, there is nothing more troubling than to make our children believe that the State is the provider of the truth. It has no truth to provide: it is only the official of society and the ideas, debates and disagreements that go through it. Will the instructions provided by national education take this neutrality into account? Given what we need to hear in this House on Fake News, we have a right to be concerned about it. What is to be said about the possible tools of this learning? It is now known that the GAFA paid directly the persons responsible for issuing notes and opinions on the relevance of the information sites. Is that what we want to drive our children to? The explanatory memorandum to the bill rightly cites the ravages of consultation and dissemination of pornography via telephones. Everyone knows the word of Soljenitsyne on the question: "We enslave peoples more easily with pornography than with mirrors. But everyone also knows that the issue will not be resolved at all with the end of the telephone in schools and colleges. It is to a real judicialization of this business that we must call it, to preserve children who begin to watch such content from the age of 10. Finally, I think that this text calls for another one. Indeed, there would be no sense in the majority's laudable attempt to exclude cell phones from school, while investing in more screens or so-called connected programs. Digital is sufficiently present in society not to overload classrooms. I therefore imagine that, after this text, you will present a policy of rationalizing the presence of screens in the classroom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u255	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u256	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mrs La République, ladies and gentlemen, by placing this bill on the agenda today, the Group of the European People's Party is demonstrating its willingness, recalled by many of us, to respect the campaign commitment of the President of the Republic. We heard earlier, at the time of the motions for procedure, that, according to our opposition colleagues, there was clearly no need for legislation. Is it not paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, to have deployed your talents to table hundreds of amendments, which were mostly satisfied or were in the field of regulation? But let's talk about it. Should the mobile phone be banned in school? Obviously, the answer is yes, and everyone agrees. As you said, minister, it is the function of the right to set principles; It's ours to legislate. In this debate, we affect the daily lives of the educational community, our fellow citizens and our children. It is in schools, in families, in society as a whole, in fact, that the question and place of the mobile phone must be understood. In carrying out my duties as a lawyer, I was able to measure how much the mobile phone could be an issue in the painful divorces between two parents in the midst of tears. Parents, in fact, did not hesitate to make this object an issue of power, seduction and attachment of the child to their own destiny. Frédéric Reiss described how the subject had been dealt with in the colleges of his constituency. For my part, when I was in charge of colleges and investments in the department of Eure, I met most of the principals. The vast majority of them explained to me that the cell phone had a virtue: when they called the parents of a disruptive student, they too often had a great deal of difficulty in freeing up time to come and meet teachers and the educational community to talk about their children. It was then enough for them to confiscate the mobile phone so that parents could find time to pick it up and exchange information on the behaviour of their offspring. In our society, mobile phones occupy a clearly disproportionate place among children. It is therefore necessary to do pedagogy within the framework of parenting. This text must help us. I have raised the issue in the context of divorces, but it arises in a much broader way. The mobile phone has become an element of stability – apparent or supposed – in relations between parents and children. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] The bill allows for a debate as important as it is symbolic. By adopting it, we will demonstrate our commitment to the presidential commitments, but also and above all our ability to legislate on a topic of public health and society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u257	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u258	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic announced during his campaign that he wished to prohibit the use of mobile phones in nursery and primary schools and colleges. Let us go back to the main reasons for such a proposal. The mobile phone is now in all hands, and we are the first actors in this situation. It's an object of everyday life. A recent study by the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques et des postes revealed that 93% of 12-17-year-olds own mobile phones and 63% of 11-14-year-olds are registered on a social network. If it is an indispensable tool for adult work, it is a means of socialization and safety for the younger ones, since it binds them to their parents on their way to school. However, giving a smartphone to a child also means putting it at the fingertips of platforms and a digital world of which it does not necessarily have the keys. Children are therefore confronted very quickly through mobile phones and can be exposed to online violence, due to inappropriate content or cyber-harassment. The risks of addiction are also a very strong threat. It is now widely known that the intensive use of the mobile phone causes behaviour that is not compatible with school life – loss of concentration or lack of sleep, for example. The mobile phone is, for children, a window directly open to the violence of the contemporary world. The school must be the place for learning and personal development, and concentration is essential for activity, understanding and memorization. Our primary duty is to protect children from the dangers of uncontrolled use of digital tools; but the school is also the place for a collective experience. How can we not recognize that the screens of our smartphones too often become a barrier to communication with our immediate neighbourhood? It is therefore both a matter of protecting younger generations from the uncontrolled use of this tool and of freeing human interactions within the school environment. Should we then ban the use of the mobile phone in school, as the 2010 law does? If in May 1968 it was forbidden to ban, fifty years later, in 2018, it is forbidden not to accompany, not to help to emancipate. One cannot content oneself with a simple ban: it would be futile or even counterproductive to demonize this object without offering an accompaniment that prompts students to consider its advantages as the disadvantages. The bill does not prohibit an object – this aspect is inherited from 2010 – but regulates its use. It encourages, on the one hand, in its Article 2, the responsible use of objects of communication and, on the other hand, recognizes the pedagogical use which can be made of them. In fact, teachers admit themselves to using mobile phones: not all of them have tablets made available by departmental advisors, so they use this tool to search for or verify the information. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] The mobile phone has thus become a learning aid that serves the cross-cutting skills so much required by our contemporary world. As has already been pointed out, it allows us to exercise our critical mind, to deepen our ability to seek and verify information, but also to communicate with our entourage – close or located on the other side of the world. Digital is also a sector of the future, with many jobs at the key; Understanding digital tools and knowing how to use them is essential. This is why the bill prohibits the personal use of the mobile phone, but not its pedagogical use in classrooms, in a supervised manner. This framework should enable the emancipation of the younger generations. They look at us, so let's go in that direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u259	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u260	I welcome the discussions that have just taken place, the wealth of which shows that there is good scope for legislation. [[Smile]] To deconstruct an argument that is wasting time, I would like to point out a contradiction that affects some objections. Since this morning, some have been trying to tell us that the bill is useless and useless, being redundant in relation to existing legislation. Ms. Frédérique Meunier stated that she did not see any difference between prohibiting unless permitted and authorizing unless prohibited. The difference, however, is enormous: go to a beach where it is forbidden to bathe except when permitted and a beach where it is allowed except when prohibited, and you will see that you will not bathe with the same frequency. There is indeed a paradigm shift, and if I do not share your conclusion at all, I very much liked your formula because it sums up our action perfectly. The usefulness of the measure is also attested by the debates: everyone has recognized the reality of the problem and the need to act. I was also struck by the contradictions within the groups. Not all of you have said the same thing, which is why you have to decide and assume some direction. Mr Hetzel and Mr Gosselin, who are sitting on the same benches, have thus said two completely different things: Mr Hetzel considered that the bill, redundant, was of no use; Mr. Gosselin explained that the 2010 text was much better than the one we were about to adopt because it allowed institutions more freedom. Indeed, we do not want establishments to be able to allow the development of mobile phones, so we prohibit their use except for the exceptions provided for in the text. There are therefore different views and the law needs to make a clear decision. We heard equally diverse things on opposite benches. Mr Corbière explained to us, like Mr Hetzel, that the bill was redundant and unnecessary, and that we were only brewing wind. Ms Buffet, on the other hand, felt that the current situation was better than the one we were looking for, since it allows establishments that wish to do so to allow mobile phones. According to Ms Buffet, it was especially necessary to organise the educational supervision of their use. These two deputies have therefore said two extremely different things and the law has to decide on these positions. Members of the LaREM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups rightly stressed the need to make the law clear and clear; That's what we're proposing. The debates show that legal action was possible, and the law will do so. Indeed, what one law has done, only another law can change it, and we believe that the law of 2010 is not as good as the one we are defending. In substance, the problem of society, which has been widely stressed today, is real. When Cédric Roussel spoke of the possibility of banning the mobile phone also for adults at the establishment, he raised an issue that is important to address because – many of you have said – it affects us all: the use of mobile phones in our world, even on the benches of this assembly. The question refers to the society we want to build; It is therefore good that the bill addresses these issues and allows French society to question, through the education of children and adolescents, the use of mobile phones by adults. I do not think, however, that it is appropriate to go so far as to prohibit the use of mobile phones by adults in schools, firstly because, in general, it is important to draw a clear distinction between the rules that apply to pupils and those that apply to adults...,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u261	At last a sensible word!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u262	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... and then because it would be necessary to act not through the law, but through awareness-raising. It is also important to avoid the perverse effects of a possible ban of this type because in some situations adults need to use the mobile phone. I therefore understand the spirit of this proposal and I think it is a good idea for us to debate it, but I do not think it should be adopted. It would be beneficial if, in our society, adults too had a reasoned use of mobile phones, but that could not always come under the law – and that is quite normal in democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u263	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u264	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u265	We can all agree that the mobile phone is likely to disrupt the smooth running of the teachings. Every teacher has, in recent years, been confronted with this problem, especially at the college where use is much more developed. In addition to an inconvenience to the teacher, the use of the mobile phone can cause inconvenience to other students, as well as to the student himself, for whom it becomes very difficult to follow the course carefully. Currently, half of the colleges have banned it in their rules of procedure; with the adoption of the bill, the ban will be effective by default and will legally strengthen the heads of establishment. It is more than necessary to make schools more secure in the event of disputes with parents because, as everyone knows, a provision of law is better than a provision of a regulation of procedure before an administrative court. I am also pleased that, in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, we have been able to extend the ban to activities related to education that take place outside the premises of institutions, which, for example, allows for physical and sports education courses to take place in a gymnasium or stadium. I would like to recall here that some heads of institutions have decided to anticipate this law. This is particularly the case at the Puy-en-Velay College where mobile phones have been banned since 2016. And it works: teachers indicate that students are better able to receive lessons than when they were on their mobile phones. In Britain, too, dozens of schools have successfully chosen to ban mobile phones throughout school life. A survey by two economists published by the London School of Economics has shown that schools that apply a strict ban on mobile phones have better results. These researchers found that school results progressed after the ban, and that this progression was much greater among the students most in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u266	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u267	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] According to them, allowing telephones in schools would mainly handicap the most disadvantaged students. It can therefore be considered that the provisions laid down in Article 1 e represent an additional measure in favour of the most difficult neighbourhoods and pupils, complementing the duplication of CPs and EC1s within the priority education networks, REPs, and reinforced priority education networks, REP+, as well as the "work done" arrangements in the college. To conclude: yes to students connected in class, but with both ears rather than an earpiece.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u268	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u269	My point of order is based on Rule 19(7), Rule 49(6) and Rule 91 of our Rules of Procedure. I wonder whether a Member who is not registered can, as I have asked, register on a motion to refer the whole text of the committee to the committee. I would therefore like to alert you once again to the condition of the non-attached in this House: their speaking time is strictly limited, as is their overall participation in the work of the National Assembly, as the groups have structured the entire parliamentary life of our chamber since 1962. Yet we can fully contribute constructively to the discussions; I would have liked to speak on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u270	Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u271	Section 1 is the heart of the bill as it amends the Education Code to make the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges a general principle. This principle will be an indispensable prerequisite for the pedagogical and controlled use of the telephone in the context of digital education. Contrary to what has been said previously, the modification is not anecdotal. Article 1 of the law allows for a complete change in the legal paradigm, since the ban on mobile phones becomes the norm in schools and colleges, whereas today it is an exception left to the free appreciation of the rules of procedure with regard to use outside classrooms. However, the freedom of schools will always be respected since article 1 explicitly allows internal regulations to allow students to use mobile phones in specific places and conditions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The supervision is of course aimed, first of all, at the students, but also – as you mentioned, Mr.Minister – the educational community as a whole, which must be exemplary. This example does not have to be imposed by law, but must be the subject of strong reminders and awareness-raising, as you have just pointed out. We heard it; I also withdraw Amendment No 24 from our group on Article 1, which dealt with the extension of the framework for the use of mobile phones to the educational community.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u272	What about the deputies?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u273	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u274	Ladies and gentlemen, guiding the use of mobile phones in primary schools and colleges is a commitment to the good education and well-being of children and adolescents. The use of smartphones in schools – including primary schools – is becoming commonplace. This phenomenon is accompanied by harmful changes in the behaviour of children and adolescents. Studies show the side effects of telephone use in schools. On the one hand, wave emissions can cause health problems; As of July 2016, the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour had advocated reducing the exposure of children. On the other hand, the presence of these devices disrupts the concentration, as demonstrated by the study conducted in 2015; loss of attention related to telephones in classrooms is detrimental to learning. In addition, the use of telephones in schools and recreation classes exposes children to the dangers of cyber-harassment and inappropriate content: violence, pornography, etc. However, the fight against gender-based, sexual or moral harassment is our priority. Finally, these disturbances also affect socialization processes and live together. The school must remain a central place of openness and knowledge of the other, a place where each one experiences others and enriches himself with his wealth. However, cohesion is called into question when students lock themselves into the world of their smartphone by preferring virtual exchanges on social networks to real interactions. By remaining in this microcosm, some give up discovering others and adopt attitudes that affect the learning of life in society. The construction of citizenship, which requires respect for oneself and others, is weakened. With Article 1 of the proposed law, the use of mobile phones will now be clearly regulated by the teaching team. Supervising the use of mobile phones, including during activities outside the school, such as school outings, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u275	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u276	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...is promoting a healthy environment for our teenagers. This will also draw the attention of families to this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u277	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u278	Minister, we must pay attention to the education of our children, to the values we pass on to them: the law must provide for them. But to read the bill, one cannot fail to wonder: is it really useful for the law to regulate in detail all aspects of life? Is the problem of the use of mobile phones not covered by the rules of procedure of schools? These fundamental questions have been asked by several of our colleagues. It is true that we can do another reading of the bill. To the extent that the Education Code already explicitly provides for the prohibition of mobile phones, this could, paradoxically, be seen as a relaxation, since an exception is provided for the "pedagogical uses" of electronic equipment, for example digital tablets. In any event, it will be difficult to assess the practical application of this law. With regard to Article 2, on civic education, we understand that it is a matter of guaranteeing the dignity of the person, freedom of opinion and the development of critical thinking. But things are more complicated with Article 3, which completes the list of rights and duties related to the use of the Internet listed in Article L. 312-9 of the Education Code and mentions "learning digital citizenship" – a rather mysterious concept in our eyes. In any event, we would like this teaching to serve at least one thing: to teach students to take on their words and actions, without hiding behind pseudonyms to carry out all kinds of irresponsible attacks. It is the basis of civic life and therefore of democracy. In short, if we were to retain one aspect of this text, it would be this one: we have to teach the kids to take on their actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u279	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u280	In recent years, the number of young people with mobile phones has grown exponentially. The explanatory memorandum to the bill we are considering mentions that in 2016, 93% of young people aged 12 to 17 had a mobile phone, an increase of 20% over ten years. These phones accompany teenagers everywhere, including at school, where they are supposed to remain extinct in their bags. Many studies have shown that children suffer from an increasingly strong addiction to screens, which has a negative impact on their attention and learning abilities. I therefore believe that it is necessary to monitor the use of mobile phones: I am in favour of the objectives set out in the text. However, in order for supervision to be fully effective, and to ensure the rational use of devices, more means of coercion would have to be given to the teaching staff – in this I agree with my colleagues in the La France group. I would have liked to speak on the motion for referral to committee. I believe that all members of this House agree on the objectives of the bill. We must now find together the means to make these measures effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u281	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, although we legislated in 2010 on the issue of mobile phones at school, we still face them regularly. When the legislator has to intervene over and over again on the same subject, it is because he has chosen a wrong path. Neither the a priori ban nor the a posteriori ban will solve this problem: it must be considered more broadly, taking into account access to networks, the digitisation of life. The average age at which children receive their first telephone is now 11 years. However, children do not understand the issues related to privacy and personal data – the latter are inseparable from the use of a mobile phone, even outside the course schedule. They are victims of digital harassment, attacks on their privacy. And because of the digital divide, which also plays in the area of privacy and data control, parents are deprived, unable to help their children acquire the codes necessary for the proper use of the mobile phone and – more generally – of all digital terminals. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is the role of national education to train young people in these technologies, which are now an integral part of our lives. It's not just about learning how to manage your data and protect your privacy, it's also about knowing what a computer code is. Young people need to be able to understand all digital issues, which are of vital importance – including, in the future, national sovereignty. This must be the role of the school: it is not just a question of banning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u284	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u285	I feel that once again, as usual, we focus on the consequences without tackling the cause. It is better to prevent than to heal, says the adage. All schools have rules of procedure: perhaps we should ask ourselves why we can't enforce them. Why, despite the penalties – hours of glue, temporary exclusions, etc. –, do teachers not manage to enforce the rules of procedure? That is what we should be thinking about, rather than still adopting a prohibition law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u286	Yes! It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u287	At present, in national education as in all public services, there is an ever greater demand, with fewer resources. How do you want a teacher, alone in front of a class of thirty-eight students, to enforce the ban, while the phones pass from hand to hand, to be hidden? Teachers can't even teach: how can they also watch over mobile phones? If there were only 20 students in the classroom, not only could teachers attend classes, but they would also be able to visualize what is happening in the classroom. They could spend their time not hunting phones, but doing prevention, education on the dangers of mobile phones, and more generally screens. Students remain human beings: if we explain to them the why of how, they can understand! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In the current situation, while the classrooms are overloaded and teachers are no longer doing it, you will try to ban it, but it will not work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u288	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u289	This essential article represents the core of the scheme: strengthening the legal framework for the prohibition of mobile phones in schools. Amendments have been made in committee, so that the ban is not total: pedagogical uses will always be allowed. Improvements have also been made for students with disabilities: this is very important. It is not a revolution, but it is a welcome development, which has two merits: to strengthen the legal certainty of heads of institutions and to open a broader debate on the use of digital tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u290	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 5 and 13, to delete Article 1. I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u291	As a follow-up to the previous motion of rejection, which I defended earlier, it is a question of enforcing the current law in the development of the rules of procedure, and of accompanying the educational communities that would have difficulty in doing so. The vade-mecum you have distributed in schools will be very useful from this point of view. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I interviewed a Quebec collaborator yesterday about the use of mobile phones in Canada. As everywhere, this has led to debate: the authorities are part of a prohibition principle, and then regulate the use of mobile phones in each facility. We, too, should trust the ground: that is why I propose, by this amendment, to delete Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u292	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u293	As I said a few moments ago, it does not seem to me that the task of the State is to oversee all aspects of everyday life. The ban on mobile phones in schools and colleges is not a problem on which we should legislate; It is up to the institutions themselves to decide. Similarly, parents and educators are responsible for raising children's awareness of the healthy and responsible use of the mobile phone. That is the message we want to pass through this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u294	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u295	I will not go back to the reasons for the usefulness of this text. Mr Castellani, I share your view on the responsibility of parents: it is in fact up to them, in the first place, to educate their children for the responsible use of digital tools, but I think it is also the role of the school to build dikes to protect our children. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u296	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u297	Mr Reiss, Mr Castellani, I shall be brief, because I have already developed my arguments on the issues that you have raised. Your comments show that we have a fundamental difference. You have both concluded that the initiative must be left to the actors on the ground on these issues. In some cases, this is indeed a relevant conduct, but as far as this problem is concerned, a national ban seems more appropriate to us. I repeat, the ban will not be in its pure form. We want an effective ban on mobile phones: there is a real difference in approach between us. That is the lesson we can learn from our debates. The Government is obviously opposed to these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u298	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u299	We will abstain from these amendments. As we have already said, the bill takes the problem through the little bit of the lorgnette and will not solve anything. I bet you that in five years or ten years, our assembly will be meeting again to discuss the issue of mobile phones at school.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u300	You don't take a lot of risks by saying that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u301	Perhaps, then, we will take this problem from the right side, namely education for good digital hygiene, by abandoning the idea of a ban a priori or aposteriori, which will not solve anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u303	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u304	Our discussions show that, since 2010, it is already possible to ban mobile phones in schools. It is therefore surprising that in one year the Government did nothing on this issue. You're telling us that you're going to solve all the problems with the law: it's pretty embarrassing, because in a year, you could have done something. We deplore this inaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u305	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u306	Minister, there is not really any substantive difference between us: we all agree on the objective, we believe that all levels – the law, schools, parents – must contribute to digital education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u307	That's why we need a real digital law at school!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u308	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1258.u309	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the proposed law on the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges; Discussion, after the accelerated procedure, of the draft law and the proposed organic law on the fight against the manipulation of information; Discussion, after the accelerated procedure, of the proposal for a law strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos. The meeting is adjourned.
