ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrecy (No. 984).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u2	Mr Raphaël Gauvain, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u3	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are approaching the final stage in the drafting of a text which has mobilized, for the past four months, within Parliament and well beyond. This text comes after five unsuccessful attempts, just in the National Assembly, to give business secrecy a definition in French law: in 2004, in 2009, in 2012, in 2014 and in 2015. It operates, to the best of my knowledge, the transposition of a European directive without going through a bill. I shall dwell for a moment on the very particular genesis of this bill. Its development was based on broad co-writing, the initiative of which belongs to the majority group, with the support of the services of the Chancery. I would like to thank Mrs. Keeper of the Seals for the availability of her services. The text was submitted to the Council of State, which was considering its first bill since the beginning of the legislature – two more have since followed. I welcome the work done by the rapporteur and the members of the Internal Affairs Section of the Council of State within very limited deadlines. It has been the subject of rich parliamentary work, in particular thanks to Mrs Christine Hennion, draftsman of the opinion, and to our colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs. On the substance, the text submitted to you carries out a faithful and accepted transposition. We have stuck as closely as possible to the directive of 8 June 2016 and, where possible, ruled out unnecessary adaptations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u5	In the Committee on Laws and then in session, our Assembly adopted fifty-six amendments, in part editorial but also substantive, in most cases on my initiative. In order to define the information protected by business secrecy, in Article 1 we have adopted a definition more in line with European law, opting for the notion of commercial, actual or potential value. We have also extended measures to protect the confidentiality of cases in judicial proceedings to all civil, commercial and administrative courts. I have also proposed a new mechanism to protect journalists and whistleblowers more effectively from "bag procedures", in the form of an autonomous civil fine regime, with an increased ceiling. The fine may be imposed by the court concerned in the event of unfair proceedings or a disproportionate claim for damages. This work then continued in the Senate. Our honourable senators have worked to clarify the legal procedures that have been introduced to ensure effective protection of the confidentiality of cases. They further reinforced the conformity of the text with the Directive, in particular as regards the definition of the legitimate holder of the secret, the characterisation of the unlawful acquisition of secrecy or the legal scope of exceptions to the confidentiality of cases concerning journalists, whistleblowers and employee representatives. Inevitably, some differences have emerged, affecting the exact scope of business secrecy, the new civil fine or the usefulness of a criminal component. Despite these differences, we have reached an agreement with the Senate rapporteur, Mr. Christophe-André Frassa, whom I want to thank here. With regard to the scope, in order to define the information protected by business secrecy, we have adopted in Article 1 the definition we adopted in the House: a more restrictive definition, based on the notion of commercial value rather than economic value, a more vague and, above all, more extensive legal concept. With regard to gag proceedings, we reinstated the civil fine, which the Senate had abolished because it feared its unconstitutionality and a censure by the Constitutional Council. On this point, I do not agree with his analysis or with the arguments underlying it. The Council's other decisions in this area concerned provisions of a different nature: these are quite subjective assessments. Above all, we in the House have adopted this system unanimously, considering the civil fine to be necessary and indispensable for the balance of the text. Finally, the creation of a specific criminal offence, adopted by the Senate, was ruled out. We had discussed it at length both in committee and in session. This specific criminal offence seemed useless to us. I remain convinced that, in the case of industrial espionage, the prosecutor has the opportunity to prosecute on the basis of theft, concealment, abuse of trust or intrusion into a computer system. That was not the opinion of the Senate, which was very attached to the creation of this specific criminal offence. However, it agreed to withdraw it in order to allow for an agreement. We have committed ourselves to continue and deepen together on this issue in the coming months. The debate on business secrecy is long-standing in France. He has suffered many failures, regardless of the majorities, on the right or on the left. As in many areas, we could not get out of the caricatures or go beyond our partisan divisions, while many countries have built up such a legal arsenal many years ago. Today, we have reached an agreement by bringing together a large majority of government parties. We obviously agreed on the essentials: to protect the know-how of our companies and to fight effectively against the plundering of our industries, without sacrificing press freedom. I remain very committed to the continuity of the State and to our European commitments. I would therefore like to associate with this success the previous majority, recalling that this proposal for a law is the transposition of a European directive due to an initiative by France in 2013, when Mr Cazeneuve was Minister Delegate for European Affairs. The directive was adopted in 2015 and voted by almost 80% of French parliamentarians in the European Parliament. For better transposition, we have enriched the text. We must repeat this, and be pedagogic about it. Because this text is the subject of a lot – really a lot – of misinformation. The purpose of the law is to provide a legal framework for the confidentiality of cases. We have adopted a clear definition of business secrecy, with particularly strict cumulative criteria. We have given procedural guarantees and strengthened them. The scheme has thus been extended to all judicial and administrative proceedings. Above all, even if the company could avail itself of a characterised business secret, the text cannot be applied to journalists, whistleblowers and staff representatives. No action may be taken; and, even if it is, the civil fine will allow the company to be punished in case of unfair or delaying proceedings, up to EUR 60000 or 20% of the amount of damages claimed. Recently, a French industrialist attacked a journalist from France 2 for breach of business secrecy, claiming 50 million euros. Now, thanks to our mechanism, the judge will have the possibility, in such cases, to punish the company for unfair proceedings to the tune of 10 million euros. To provide a legal framework, a protective framework, by means of a strict definition, and procedural guarantees, all to better protect companies, journalists and whistleblowers: this is what we are doing. You, ladies and gentlemen, have yet to confirm the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee. I would like to point out that paragraph 78, i.e. the second paragraph of the proposed text for Article L. 153-1 of the Commercial Code, will give rise to a joint amendment by the two rapporteurs. This is the use of evidence by the judge in the event that a room paid is likely to involve the secrecy of the cases. The time frame within which the CMP was held did not allow us to reach a common drafting; That's what's done. I would add that a second amendment corrects a reference error identified in the Senate text. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u6	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u7	Mr President, Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws – dear Yaël Braun-Pivet – Mr rapporteur – dear Raphaël Gauvain, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to warmly welcome the enthusiasm of the rapporteur and the conviction that he is defending the bill before us, as well as the collective work done on the text over the past few months. The secret of business is a difficult subject which required a subtle balance, within a constrained European framework, and which raises concerns and questions – as we saw yesterday when we read a great morning's daily –. By definition, all these issues are obviously legitimate because they have to do with democracy. The debates on the proposed law will have had the merit of setting out all the difficulties, but also the answers given very concretely by the text that has been submitted to you. That is one of the essential functions of Parliament. And I believe that, collectively, we can be satisfied with the way these issues have been brought to the public square. At the end of these discussions, a consensus was reached between the two assemblies. I really thank rapporteur Raphaël Gauvain, who has worked very hard in this direction and found ways of a very fruitful dialogue with his counterpart in the Senate, Christophe-André Frassa, whose involvement and sense of listening I must also pay tribute to. After a first examination of the bill in both chambers, some very important issues were discussed. The first – as you recalled, Mr rapporteur – was the adoption of a precise definition of the concept of business secrecy, in compliance with our European commitments. The wording adopted by the Joint Joint Committee guarantees this. The terms used, which are those of the directive, will not give rise to unnecessary controversy over the scope of protection granted to business secrecy. It is clear from now on that all economic data held by a company cannot be kept confidential. Only those who are the subject of reasonable protective measures and who are of commercial, actual or potential value to the holder will be able to do so, and the holder will have to prove this. Your chamber also disagreed with the Senate on the advisability of introducing a new criminal sanction for misappropriation of protected economic information. The Government was not in favour of it. I would point out that the transposition of the directive did not require this, since the European legislator had chosen, taken over, a purely civil scheme. The text proposed by the Senate faced the same legal obstacles as those raised by the Council of State in its opinion of 31 March 2011, in particular that of a definition that might seem imprecise – which, of course, is absolutely not possible in criminal matters. However, if the proposed answer was not satisfactory, the concerns expressed were fair: our companies must have the means to defend themselves against industrial espionage in a context of globalisation and heightened competition between economic actors. That is why the joint work between the two chambers will continue on this sensitive and important subject of obvious topicality. The Government has decided to entrust to Mr Gauvain and Senator Frassa, rapporteurs of this bill, a mission to analyse the legal measures for the protection of French companies faced with extraterritorial judicial or administrative proceedings. In this context, the interest of a reform of the Act of 26 July 1968, known as the "blocking law", relating to the communication of economic, commercial, industrial, financial or technical documents and information to foreign natural or legal persons may be examined. Finally – and this is an important subject – it was particularly appropriate for the Joint Joint Committee to decide to re-establish the provision on the civil fine introduced by your rapporteur, in order to respond to the serious concerns expressed about the risk of "beading procedures". It should be recalled that the aim of this measure is to prevent and, where appropriate, punish abusive procedures which, in this respect, may be particularly severe in the exercise of the fundamental right to freedom of expression. Journalists and whistleblowers should not be prosecuted solely on the basis of intimidation. It is a concern that your rapporteur and the Government have always had in mind. The aim of the bill is certainly not, as I have heard, to restrict the legal protection afforded to whistleblowers, to give additional weapons against press freedom or, as I read in Libération yesterday, to re-establish "a form of censorship a priori of the judge, abolished in 1881 by the law on freedom of the press". It is not a text that would violate the most essential freedoms, in particular freedom of expression, in that it would allow companies to conceal illegal acts, expose journalists or whistleblowers to sanctions in the event of disclosure of business secret information and would ultimately make it impossible for investigative journalism and the disclosure of legally or morally condemnable facts to the general public. All these situations are expressly provided for in the text and are subject to explicit derogations. It is therefore not correct to say that the bill establishes secrecy in principle and reduces the exercise of freedom of expression to an exception. I have already said this and say it again before you, with the same force and conviction: the text that is presented to you again does not constitute a step backwards for public freedoms. The challenge is to protect companies from the looting of their innovations. It's about fighting unfair competition. It is still to encourage research and development, which are the source of many jobs. To do this, economic actors need legal certainty. This is the only objective of the proposed law: to define the information which falls within the scope of the secrecy of cases and to regulate the requests made before the judge for the protection of this secrecy. But this protection of business secrecy is obviously not absolute. The particular interest of a company to keep certain information secret will always give way to the need to preserve the general interest. The courts will take care of this. Thus, a company will not be able to rely on a business secret to oppose the judicial or administrative investigations to which it would be subject. Nor will it be able to oppose the revelation of a business secret, when this revelation is necessary for the exercise of the trade union right – it is obvious. Nor will it be able to obtain from the judge that it prevents the dissemination to the general public of information of general interest on the ground that this information would constitute a secret of cases. Finally, it will not be able to obtain damages against an employee who, in good faith and for the purpose of public interest, has brought to the attention of a journalist an illegal activity, fault or reprehensible conduct. In the event of the disclosure of a business secret, journalists and whistleblowers will always be able to claim to have acted within the framework of the legitimate exercise of their freedom of expression and information. These principles are very clearly set out in the bill before you. Freedom of expression remains fully guaranteed by article 11 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen. I recall that the Constitutional Council has repeatedly stressed that it is a fundamental freedom "all the more valuable since its exercise is a condition of democracy and one of the guarantees of respect for other rights and freedoms". The Government obviously does not, in any way, wish to reduce the scope of this principle to protect particular economic interests. Protection of journalists' sources, the cornerstone of freedom of expression and communication, will always be granted under article 2 of the Act of 29 July 1881 on freedom of the press. Moreover, not only will an employee be able to benefit from the protective framework defined by the law of 9 December 2016, known as the "Sapin 2" law, but, more importantly, he will benefit from wider protection, because of the very text of the directive that we transpose. In this regard, I welcome the fact that French legislation has served as a frame of reference for the development of the next proposal for a European directive on the protection of whistleblowers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill before you today, which has been the result of extensive reflections over the past several years, is a real improvement in our legal system. This improvement was built without, however, an unjustified and disproportionate infringement of fundamental rights and the protective legal framework of whistleblowers. Freedom of expression will always prevail in our democracy. I would like to thank you once again for all the work that has been done collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u8	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is with some seriousness and responsibility that I put forward a motion for a preliminary rejection of the draft law on the protection of business secrecy, by speaking on behalf of the Communist Members, but also of all those who have mobilized against this retrograde initiative. I am the voice of an unprecedented citizen mobilization: while a petition has gathered more than 500,000 signatures, associations of all walks of life are standing up against a project that presents a risk of liberticide; journalists, whistleblowers, trade unionists, citizens are concerned, worried and even shocked by this unprecedented decline in the freedom to inform; demonstrations in Paris and in the province attest to an unusual mobilization to say the least. Yet, to the legitimate challenge, you oppose the brutality of silence and the brutality of the method. To questions and concerns, you are opposed to the unsuspecting consequences of a sloppy text. This motion is one of the last weapons we have left to keep our country's business secret. This is the result of the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee between the parliamentarians of the Republicans and the Republic groups on the move. Let us observe in passing that the same alliance was made yesterday on the reform of the SNCF – there are sometimes majorities of ideas that say more about it than political majorities... This incredible agreement between conservative forces thus tries to seal the fate of a text full of opacity, from its genesis to its conclusion – opacity for a text relating to "business secrecy": the loop is closed. The opacity has been present from the outset, with the European Commission and its proposal for a directive on manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u10	Always the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u11	According to the argument put forward, large European companies and SMEs would be subject to industrial looting by international competitors; industrial and commercial secrets would be hijacked. Therefore, protection should be provided to these enterprises, in a harmonised way throughout Europe, in order to protect our economic sovereignty, employment and competitiveness. All this argumentary, all these elements of language flew out after the revelations of the NGO Corporate Europe Observatory showing that the European Commission had acted less in accordance with these motivations, in all praiseworthy terms, than following intense lobbying by large multinational companies. The result is very clear: the proposal for a directive on business secrecy effectively leads to the protection of internal business data, in line with the wishes expressed by the European Commission; But the level of protection granted is such that it undermines freedom of expression, the right to information for the public and, in plain terms, the public interest. The European Parliament's vote on this directive two years ago was based on strong protests and a powerful transnational citizen mobilisation. Then, when the time came to transpose it, opacity regained its rights. First of all, this transposition is the subject of a proposal for a law. This is just as singular as it is baroque! It is customary to transpose the guidelines through bills. What difference will you tell me? A proposal for a law avoids the obligation to carry out an impact assessment, the content of which could have been embarrassing. Without an impact assessment, it is impossible for parliamentarians that we are to take an informed stand. It is a very difficult snake to swallow for anyone who is committed to democracy and freedoms in our country. Another crude string, the use of the accelerated procedure: in addition to having to decide without impact assessment, Parliament must legislate in very short time frames. At a time when the majority is calling for a strengthening of Parliament's evaluation capacity, such a process makes us sadly smile. Definitely, the great powers have found in this executive and this majority an ear to the least attentive. This is indeed the red line of the first year of this legislature. After a work law "XXL" largely inspired by the MEDEF, after a finance law to reward the support given by the first circle, after a law on agriculture and food where the leg of the agri-food industry was recognised, after the bill on housing, planning and digital development, where the influence of some lobbyists has resulted in a clear decline in access to housing for people with disabilities, it is now the directive on business secrecy that needs to be transposed into catimini, out of debate, away from light, in hiding, and as soon as possible. The unpreparation and haste that led to this work naturally reflected on the heart of the text, on which I would now like to dwell. This proposal for a law, ladies and gentlemen, is now deeply flawed and its consequences are completely uncertain. On the substance, let us ask ourselves about the effectiveness of the current regulation in the face of industrial espionage, as we have said. And we are prepared to engage in a debate on this point. But positive law already offers guarantees to companies, which can assert their rights as soon as they consider themselves injured. Intellectual property law, commercial law or contract law already protect innovation and creation. But with this bill, protection goes far beyond that. The scope of information protected by business secrecy, defined by the first subparagraphs of Article 1, is extremely broad and its contours are particularly unclear. The spectrum of protected information becomes so wide that almost any information internal to a company can be protected by business secrecy. The secret is therefore established in principle. The provision, possession and disclosure of information relating to tax, environmental and social practices harmful to society will be subject to the exception, since it may give rise to legal proceedings by companies which consider themselves to be injured. The rapporteur is trying to present us with the definition finally adopted by the CMP as progress. It is true that the Senate had gone even further in defining the scope of the bill, but it is difficult to rejoice when the worst is the worst. The definition finally adopted symbolizes the imbalances of this bill. It is the source of a broad challenge on the part of all those who are committed to the freedom to inform, and who are aware that opacity will become the rule and transparency, the exception. The criticisms also relate to the weakness of the provisions in the section entitled "Exceptions to the protection of business secrecy", which cannot be compared in terms of strike force with those which ensure the protection of business secrecy. Our fear is that this text will act as a weapon of mass deterrence against anyone who is tempted to reveal internal information. Companies will be more frank when they feel they are harmed: in addition to discouraging, your proposal will allow them to initiate proceedings before the courts, to increase the number of appeals and thus to put pressure on the person who has contravened its provisions. In a way, this legislation legalizes judicial harassment against all whistleblowers who try to legitimately inform the public. It will now be up to them to bear the burden of proof and to prove that they acted in good faith and within the restrictive framework that you have defined. In view of the retrograde measures in this bill, we find it disrespectful, if not hypocritical, to pay tribute to the whistleblowers and to shed crocodile tears on their fate while putting sticks in their wheels. Ladies and gentlemen, behind every alert, there is a launcher or an alert launcher, there is one person. To launch the alert is often to embark on a perilous path to the uncertain conclusion, it is to begin a crossing of the desert. Launching the alert means putting at risk his professional life but also his personal life, his family, his loved ones, his children. It is to deal with the pressure, recourse, legal and financial power of the other party. As part of our proposal for a law on tax havens, defended last March in the Chamber, we had met one of the whistleblowers of the UBS case. His testimony was poignant, drawing our attention to the difficulties he faced, as well as to the still numerous obstacles that whistleblowers still face today: isolation, tensions, fear for security, lack of financial and legal support from the public authorities. We say this straight away: Sapin 2 was a significant step forward, defining an innovative framework...,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u12	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u13	...but this protection which the nation must grant to all those who act for the common good is still insufficient. As this text is about to be voted, I want to have a special thought for Nicole-Marie Meyer, Irène Frachon, Antoine Deltour, Hervé Falcini, Olivier Thérondel and all the others who have sacrificed a lot and often lost a lot, and whose drafters of this law should have been inspired rather than yielding to the mermaids of the lobbies. I also want to have a thought for all the associations that organize their defense – such as the MetaMorphosis collective which develops a citizen tool to accompany the whistleblowers and information of the general public, and whose action I wish to relay. I want to have a thought for all the NGOs that have joined together in the collective "Stop business secret", who are fighting today so that the particular interest of some do not impose the law of silence on all others, and I would like to relay to you their final inquiry of the President of the Republic, yesterday in the columns of Liberation. Ladies and gentlemen, are you really going, despite all the calls from civil society, despite the unanimity of the editorial rooms, to let us move towards censorship? In any case, this bill goes back to all these battles driven by the general interest that should drive politics. It is akin to a self-defense reaction of the system in the face of a just and legitimate movement of society towards greater transparency. Citizens hold all actors with social responsibility accountable: elected officials, public actors, but also companies, among them multinational corporations. Their practices are now rightly scrutinized, given their impact on the world around us. Public decision-makers try here or there to accompany this movement, but in this case, the system, aware that its fundamental interests are at stake, defends itself and tries to erect a dam, a wall behind which it could take refuge, free from the eyes of citizens, journalists, politicians, researchers and trade unionists. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Delphine Batho and Mr Dominique Potier also applaud]] For these reasons, considering the unpreparation and uncertainties of this bill, considering the authoritarian use of the accelerated procedure, considering the absence of an impact assessment on such a fundamental issue, considering the retrograde measures proposed here, considering the threats that this project poses to freedom, democracy and our fundamental rights, I ask you to vote on this motion of rejection beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u14	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the groups of unsuspecting France and the Democratic and Republican Left of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u15	Of course, we are asking that this motion be rejected. As I explained in the general discussion and in the report on the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, the subject is the subject of a great deal of misinformation. You cite citizen mobilization and petitions. I'll just take one example: the petition, signed by a number of journalists and posted by Le Monde, included inaccurate information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u16	So the reporters can't read?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u17	In particular, it stated that our bill provided for a specific criminal offence; She was trying to scare us by saying we were going to send the journalists to the correctional court for breach of business secrecy. That's not true! Yesterday or Monday, the decoders of the World – of which one might think that they are reasonable people who seek to analyze the texts in order to unravel the truth of the false – wrote that we had removed the device from the civil fine and had not provided a balancing device to protect journalists and whistleblowers from gag procedures. That is not true, it is incorrect: it has been withdrawn by the Senate and we come before you to restore it. As has been pointed out at length Minister, this debate is very old and has evolved a lot. In particular, there has been a lot of discussion before the European Commission. At the end of this process, which began in 2008-2010, we came up with a balanced text that would better protect our companies, as well as journalists and whistleblowers. Today, legal proceedings against the latter for violation of the confidentiality of cases already exist; the law intervenes to give them a more protective legal framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u18	In the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, the floor is for Mr Christophe Naegelen, for the IUD Group, to act and to be independent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u19	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, it is a matter of philosophy: our group has a habit of always voting against motions for rejection. We are starting from the principle that Parliament has its role to play, that it is here in this House that we need to debate the various texts. The same applies to the latter, which has also been the subject of long hours of discussion. We do not see the need for prior rejection and will therefore vote against the motion. My colleague Paul Christophe will shortly explain the group's position on this bill: a balanced text, which has been mentioned on several occasions, responds to the need to bring itself into line with European law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u20	The next speaker is Mr Dominique Potier, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u21	We have no definitive philosophy or dogmatic position on motions for rejection, and I will support it, perhaps as an exceptional matter in the political culture of our group. I will speak of the substance earlier, if the motion is not adopted, but on the form, I would like to repeat what Marietta Karamanli and several other colleagues in the New Left Group have already said: we regret the absence of an impact assessment, the refusal to refer back to committee, when the committee had found stalemates in the semantic and legistic interpretation of several essential points, and the use of an accelerated procedure in the case of a law which was clearly intended, like others at the time, to reach consensus. The question of the hierarchy of norms is constantly being raised; In a nation like ours, consistency with the European directive is certainly an imperative, but it does not exempt us from the need to exploit all the room for manoeuvre. In the hierarchy of norms, the Constitution and public freedoms must prevail. Not only will we support the motion of rejection, but in order to avoid any suspense, I am already warning you that, if it is rejected, we will vote against the bill itself. If political conditions are met, we will arrange a referral to the Constitutional Council in order to restrict the interpretation and scope of this law. It will be a way for us to exercise our role as whistleblowers in an opposition that, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen in the majority group, does not do so to challenge you. We do not make you a trial of intent; Our entry into this debate is not to assume that you have been manipulated by a lobby. The fundamental reproach that we are addressing to you is not to succumb to the pressure of any opinion, but to not have created the conditions for a dialogue to get out of the impasses where this text leaves us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u22	Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u23	[[Ms. Elsa Faucillon, Ms. Delphine Batho and Mr. Adrien Quatennens applaud]] We will of course vote in favour of this motion to reject. When I hear the rapporteur say that in essence this text better protects whistleblowers and the press, I wonder what universe we live in. On the part of the majority, what a taste of sophistry! The tens, the hundreds of journalists, the companies of journalists, the unions, the associations, all these people can't read a text, do they understand anything? Do you think they are unable to see the gap between what you're talking about here and the arms in the service of Bolloré and company that they are already suffering and that the additional text you're adding will only strengthen? All of this they know; They see the difference between the words you speak here and the life they have to live when they decide to exercise their function, to play their democratic role! Rather than rushing to draft a text that favours multinationals, a law on whistleblowers should first have been drafted. Or – second possibility – adopt the many amendments that we have tabled to provide this bill with a second part to strengthen the rights of journalists, whistleblowers and NGOs. All these amendments were rejected; Not a single one has been adopted! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] Finally, I hear that we are talking about lobbies; Of course, it was the same – Bayer, Monsanto and DuPont – who acted on glyphosate and who were at the initiative of this directive on business secrecy at European Commission level. But I see a limit to this term of lobby: to talk about it is to consider that there is still a need for external pressure; Given the composition of the Government and the identity of our President of the Republic, there is no need for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u24	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u25	By strengthening the protection of business secrecy, this bill violates the constitutional requirement to extend the area of public freedoms ever more. Because of its very broad definition, this protection infringes the right to information and favours the powerful, particularly the managers, owners and shareholders of multinationals. This text will therefore increase the protection of private interests. What we want, on the contrary, is to extend the possibility of making the general interest prevail. We want to make democracy grow: in the company, there are employees who fight every day for information; In society, more generally, there are citizens who intervene wherever it is necessary. We are for the sharing of knowledge and powers. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We know how strategic information is to influence the course of the world. That is why we will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u26	Mrs Christine Hennion, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u27	I shall repeat once again the explanations already made by the rapporteur. This bill has come a long way before it is submitted to us for final adoption today. This path has been shaped by several initiatives aimed at the construction of a legal definition of the secrecy of cases, which have encountered sometimes justified and often exacerbated polemics. But once the fantasies and the strategies of manipulation of opinion are removed, we realize that it is a necessary and balanced text. It is necessary, first of all, because in an innovation economy in the midst of a digital transition, the added value of a company, i.e. its ability to be competitive and to create wealth, is increasingly dependent on its assets. However, we know that industrial property and copyright are no longer sufficient to effectively protect the sensitive information of our companies. The framework harmonised by Directive 2016/943 of 8 June 2016, voted by France, allows us to respond to the actions of our competitors which make economic influence the main focus of their foreign policy. We must appropriate this framework – and I will not confront you, on this point, with reminding you that the transposition of European directives is the result of a constitutional requirement. It is balanced, then, because it does not grant anything in the field of the defence of fundamental rights and freedoms – I am thinking in particular of the issue of whistleblowers. To say that the law of 9 December 2016 known as "Sapin 2" would be affected by this transposition bill is false. On the contrary, it complements it, in order to make our right more protective. That is why the moving Republic Group will take a responsible decision and will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u28	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u29	The Republican Group will vote against this motion of rejection in a consistent and responsible manner. We voted at first reading on this proposal for a law transposing a European directive. Finally, we believe that it is time to take action, by adopting a common legal framework that protects both the know-how and confidential information of our companies from looting, and the fundamental freedoms of freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of opinion. It is therefore a balanced text, which is the result of a very long work at European and national level and which must be adopted urgently: we shall therefore vote against this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u30	The next speaker is Mr Philippe Latomb, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u31	We will vote against this motion to reject...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u32	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u33	Perhaps, Mr Jumel, but there are many reasons for not voting. We have already had many exchanges on this subject both in committee and in committee. As we have already said, we would have preferred this transposition to be done by a legal vehicle other than this bill. In any event, exchanges in the Assembly and the Senate were prolonged by interesting discussions in the Joint Joint Committee, which led to an agreement. We believe that we must now go to the end of the process. Mr Potier, I have heard your reservations. But I will reply to you, as in the case of the draft law on the protection of personal data, which was intended to draw the consequences of the general regulation on data protection: please enter the Constitutional Council!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u34	We will not fail to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u35	This will allow this text to be purged from any constitutional problems, after which it will be fully applicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u36	It will be done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u37	Do it, it's very good, it will stabilize things!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u38	You're gonna sign the referral with us, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u39	As we have already said when it was called upon by senators to rule on the Personal Data Act, the Constitutional Council is not a threat. On the contrary, his intervention makes it possible to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u40	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u41	Therefore, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr. Few and Mr.Ruffin cited examples of cases – the Mediator, the ruling against Challenge magazine – in which, they say, things would have been different had the provisions of this bill been in force. I will come back to that in the general debate, after this motion for a preliminary rejection has been rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u42	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u43	We come to the general discussion. May I remind you that statements may not exceed five minutes. Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I in turn welcome the Joint Joint Committee for the work it has done. It has managed to reach agreement on a text which now balances the protection of business secrecy and reparation of damage, and the exceptions necessary to ensure respect for fundamental rights and freedom of information and expression for journalists, whistleblowers and employees. The whole issue of this bill was precisely the determination of the balance: it was all parliamentary work that allowed, in a short time and in the absence of a genuine impact assessment, to correctly transpose a European directive strengthening our legislative arsenal a little more for the protection of know-how and commercial information. This issue has long fuelled public debate and led to various attempts to reform, all of which have so far failed. As a result, the Community level has emerged as the most relevant in addressing this problem, where there are many issues at stake. Finally, this European directive allows us to take into account in the law the reality faced by French and European economic actors. In a globalized, digitized and open economy, our businesses must have an effective legal framework to combat the illicit acquisition, use and disclosure of information available to them. This challenge will only increase as companies increasingly invest in research, development and innovation to gain comparative advantages in economic competition, and are also increasingly exposed to illicit intelligence and spying practices. It was therefore up to the legislator to transpose the Directive, to clarify the concept of business secrecy, to lay down the conditions under which protection is granted and the cases in which it is possible to derogate from it. Of course, our room for manoeuvre in transposing the directive was reduced. However, the European Parliament and the Council have left it to the Member States to clarify the contours of this sensitive concept. After constructive discussions, the definition proposed by the National Assembly was finally adopted. Refocusing on the commercial rather than economic nature of business secrecy, this definition guarantees the balance of the text. In the face of the mobilisations and concerns that may arise from the adoption of this bill, there is a need for pedagogy to ensure that this new legislative arsenal is understood, assimilated and respected, both by companies and by journalists and whistleblowers. It is not a question of promoting the protection of business secrecy at the expense of freedom of information, nor of the other way around, but of reconciling these two principles by regulating them by law. This bill thus simultaneously strengthens the protection of business secrecy and that of whistleblowers: in the continuity of the provisions introduced by the law "Sapin 2", it strengthens the protection granted, by exception to business secrecy, to citizens who are often subject to considerable pressure, and sometimes sacrifice their family, social and professional life for a noble cause. Investigative journalists who conduct investigations to draw the attention of public authorities and public opinion to the scandalous practices of certain companies will also be protected. In addition, the UDI, Agir and Independents Group is pleased that the Joint Joint Committee has chosen to reintroduce the civil fine against delaying and abusive procedures. This major innovation will deter the use of gag procedures, which aim to stifle judicial cases by exhausting financially and morally those who have revealed them. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood this: the IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote in favour of this bill as drafted by the Joint Joint Committee, which has the merit of presenting a fair and balanced solution, with respect for freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u45	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u46	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, to make our rights fairer is the task entrusted to us with our mandate as parliamentarians. I will not go back to each of the stages of drafting this text. In particular, I have an emotional memory of a debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs on the following paragraphs of Article 1: we spent an hour and a quarter discussing the advisability of replacing the phrase "including" with the conjunction "or" – a debate that some might have found surreal. If we have insisted, if we have fought every word, if we have defended amendments to improve this text, then we have experience in this area, which I want to testify to today. The Government paid tribute to this, as well as to the deputies sitting on the benches of the majority and to our communist colleagues: I am thinking of the Sapin 2 law. We have then overcome obstacles that were at least as important as those related to the application of this European directive, and we have done so – I would like to remind you – almost unanimously. I am thinking of the provisions on whistleblowers, and the measures I have defended to fight against vulture funds. I am also thinking of the provisions – unfortunately overturned by the Constitutional Council – on the transparency of holding companies, built on the model of the provisions we had adopted under the law of 26 July 2013 on the separation and regulation of banking activities. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. On all these issues, we managed to move forward, we reached agreements, even though the Assembly was structured by a dual opposition between the left and the right. Together with the other co-rapporteurs of the Sapin 2 Act, we took the time to engage with the opposition and civil society in drafting constitutionally compatible provisions. These provisions have raised France to the level of the best European standards, and certain innovations – I am thinking of the law of 27 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies – are taking shape around the world. I am pleased to have used this method, to which all experts, the press, the legal world and NGOs paid tribute. We worked with a form of humility: we were not sure we had the right answers. That is why we have been looking together for the most relevant formulations. I do not believe very much, Mr rapporteur, in your argument that people who oppose this bill are misinformed or ill-intentioned. Nor do I give full credit to the thesis of manipulation that would give power to the great capital on the European Commission. Of course, there's some truth in this, but I don't want to sink into manicheism and cartoons. In any event, in this particular case, in order to reconcile freedom of enterprise and public freedoms, we could have found ways of dialogue, in order to arrive at other texts, allowing us to overcome all obstacles. I shall say with humour that the press which denounces what you are doing today does not seem to be otherwise, in view of our general legislative activity, necessarily hostile to the daily lives of this majority. We even have the feeling, on the left in our diversity, that it is the opposite: the press is rather benevolent with the President of the Republic and with your majority. But she stood up to say that she disagreed because there was a risk of drift. I found a comparison, Madam Minister, in an area in which you are expert and recognized, that of closure and openness: the same dilemma is found when it comes to protecting the dignity of people, but also the privacy of a home. One does not enter a house or family without having major reasons to do so because intimacy is a part of freedom and dignity. Nevertheless, we know that sometimes, because of wrongdoings committed within the home – domestic violence, crimes against children – this privacy must be violated to avoid rape and other violence. In the face of this difficult architecture, which must harmonize closure and openness, we believe that the reality of today's enterprise is that they are superpowers and that States and nations are, like international law, fragile, and we believe that if there was a risk, it should be taken on the side of freedom to denounce and announce. I would like to pay tribute not only to associations such as Sherpa in the Lafarge case, but also to Dorothee Myriam Kellou, who obtained – ex aequo with the international consortium of investigative journalists for Panama Papers – the first Trace Award of the investigative press for the Lafarge case. This young journalist who comes from my region and whom I am happy to know has shown extraordinary courage, and I hope that what our Assembly is about to vote would not have minimized her ability to denounce the shame of a group which, as a legal person, could be put under investigation in the coming weeks. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] In conclusion, I would like to warn you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: if you do not engage in dialogue with the opposition better than since the beginning of this legislature, you may give the impression – see how far I take precautions – of being gentle with the powerful and, in the CAPTE reform – the action plan for the growth and transformation of enterprises – which is announced in terms of the company's raison d'être and of opening up to other purposes than profit, only appears to be declamatory. I really invite you, in the context of this new law on the protection of business secrecy and the future law of the PACTE, to be attentive and to listen to the opposition of the left in order to avoid the profound drift of our republic and the rule of law that would be to be gentle with the powerful and hard with the democracy and the use of the weapons it has acquired.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u47	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u48	"I do not agree to sell products that give cancer. That's what Alexandre Berthelot, former Europe sales manager of the American giant Haemonetics, a medical equipment specialist, told me on Tuesday at the Labour Exchange. One of the devices he sold was a centrifuge used to donate blood, and he discovered that his resin or ceramic joints, when used, freed carcinogens that were found in the blood. In front of what was at least a big risk, he rang the alarm inside his company, but the consequence, for him, was his dismissal for disloyalty. Guylain Cabantous, CGT delegate of the French Blood Establishment, and he – I like to quote the names of the men who, discreetly, advance democracy and protect it – filed a complaint and handed over to the prosecutor 1600 pages of internal documents, or 1600 pages of confidential documents. Obviously the question arises today: will this still be possible with this law on business secrecy? You, the minister, the rapporteur, say: "There is no concern, neither for the press nor for the employees. Come on, there's nothing to see. It'll be even better for them. But many NGOs, I think of Anticor, Friends of the Earth, and all or almost all the unions – the CFDT, the CGT... –, the journalists' associations, the Albert-London Prize, the mediapart, La Vie, Radio France and the Agence France Presse, say no, it will no longer be possible. Here is what they wrote in a forum: "From now on, the law will give companies the power to sue all those who dare to reveal sensitive information in the public interest. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u49	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u50	You say "no"; They say "yes." For my part, I am more optimistic, I believe that something resists in man, in his heart: it is the desire for justice and truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u51	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Delphine Batho also applauds]] And despite the obstacles, threats, censorship and new constraints that you impose with this business secret, there will always be Alexander Berthelot who will rise, and other men to support and relay them. But that is not the question asked today. The question is, who do we want to help and who do we have to help? In concrete terms, who will you and President Macron, the European Commission and you, Madam Minister, colleagues in the majority, help?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u53	The rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u54	The question arises all the more as you offer an additional legal weapon to multinationals. But you have chosen. You chose Goliath against David! You chose the Servier labs against Irene Frachon! You chose Sanofi against Marine Martin! You chose Clearstream against Denis Robert! You chose PriceWaterhouseCoopers against Édouard Perrin! You chose Vincent Bolloré against Jean-Baptiste Rivoire! You chose UBS against Stephanie Gibaud! You chose Monsanto against Marie-Monique Robin! You chose Haemonetics against Alexandre Berthelot! You chose the Pacific Gas and Electric Company against Erin Brokovich! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] You chose money against people. Whether it's business secret or glyphosate, I said earlier, we hear a lot about lobbies. It was the same people who spoke in the Assembly on glyphosates who laid down the directive behind this bill: Bayer, Monsanto, Dupont de Nemours. They had a deal with the European Commission, including Michel Barnier,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u55	And Juncker!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u56	...to obtain this directive. [["Ah! » on the benches of the FI group]] But speaking only of the lobbies, it would still be optimistic about the state of democracy because that would mean that there is still a need for external pressure to get this type of text. Unfortunately, endogamy, the merger between economics and politics is such that there is no need for external pressure. When one has a president of the Republic business banker, when one has deputies business lawyers, when a prime minister is himself a lobbyist, one finds that such social endogamy leads very logically to a law on business secrecy. I will not say that you are tearing the Declaration of Human Rights apart, but I think you are putting the Declaration of Business Human Rights above it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u57	What a formula!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u58	"What's good for General Motors is good for the United States. And I think, minister, that your slogan, that of your government, of your president, is: "What is good for multinationals is good for the general good. You operate a confusion between the two, a confusion between the interests of the multinationals and the general interest. We are inhabited by the opposite conviction, by the conviction that these multinationals are modern monsters who can crush men, ruin health, destroy the planet in their quest for profit;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u59	Please come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... while we, we must be obstacles on their way, grains of sand in their wheels!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u62	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Potier was given five minutes and forty-five seconds without you interrupting him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u63	Mr Ruffin, I have invited you to conclude and I do not need to be pointed from the rostrum,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u64	He's entitled to his speaking time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u65	...the strength of your remarks must be sufficient to convince the House. On the other hand, I do not see any business bankers here: there are only Members who have been elected, like you, by universal suffrage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u66	Sometimes bankers are elected too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u67	Mrs Elsa Faucillon now has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u68	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the words of En march and their justifications less and less in line with their actions and with their texts, I always think of this sentence in 1984 in Orwell: "War is peace; Freedom is slavery; Ignorance is strength. Today, with this text, you are again using a well-understood language to explain that the freedom to inform is censorship. I will not dwell on the method since my colleague Stéphane Peu has done so. It should be borne in mind that the transposition of a directive is traditionally the result of a bill and not of a bill. It is true that this choice allows the Government to avoid producing an impact assessment, as in the case of the proposed law on combating false information. Moreover, the choice of the accelerated procedure is not justified since the timetable for transposition of the Directive has been known since its vote in 2016. You remain deaf – and even accusers – to the oppositions of the national representation and above all to the engagement of the 550,000 citizens who signed the petition in the collective "Stop business secret", carried by an extremely broad and unprecedented unity of personalities and associations. It becomes a leitmotiv on your part. The official objective of this bill is to combat industrial espionage. You all know here that theft of documents, non-compliance with intellectual property or defamation are already punishable by law. The scope of information now protected by business secrecy, in the definition proposed here, is broad, far too broad. Thus, almost all information internal to the company can be considered to be protected by business secrecy, which means that whistleblowers are likely to be hit by criminal sanctions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u69	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u70	...representatives of staff, NGOs and press organizations. In fact, you are legalizing judicial harassment against them, which already exists, as my colleague François Ruffin has just pointed out. Worse still, the burden of proof will be on them. It will therefore not be for the fraudulent company to justify itself, but for the whistleblower, the journalist or the citizen to prove the truthfulness of his statements in court. Thus, Lacordaire's beautiful formula loses all its meaning: the law no longer frees but oppresses the weakest. The text makes it possible to muzzle all counter-powers and to curb the pressing and perfectly legitimate demand for transparency on the part of citizens. Yes, citizens have the right to be informed about matters which, moreover, concern them directly, their health being at times at stake; Yes, citizens have the right to oppose the insolence of financial oligarchy: it is a right that we, the legislator, must confer on them. With this text, you are stifling the major tax and medical scandals. Let's just say: all investigations into tax evasion are a matter of business secrecy. You question the possibility of scandals such as the Mediator, bisphenol A, Panama Papers or Luxleaks being revealed. No one will be able to uncover health or social scandals within large groups, except for their own bosses: if it were not so serious, the thing would be laughable. The latter will therefore have considerable room for manoeuvre in order to produce and then disseminate, because they have the means to do so, false information intended to safeguard their market share. Ladies and gentlemen, we can see the logic that is emerging. This bill is part of a series of measures aimed at weakening information, the press, criticism and denunciation. It would be crazy not to see, for example, the link between this text, the proposal for a law on combating false information, which is being examined, the breakdown of the public broadcasting system or the threats made by ministers at the beginning of the legislature against officials. This series of reforms and announcements fundamentally upsets the information ecosystem in France; It aims to unblock the great law of 1881 on freedom of the press. In the face of this legislative arsenal, the major risk is self-censorship. As we say: this bill, which aggravates the directive it transposes, is the result of a strong political will: to protect the powerful at the expense of the weakest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u71	Your time has expired, Mrs Faucillon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on some benches of the NG group]] Again, congratulations to the 550,000 signatories of the "Stop Business Secret" petition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u73	Clear word!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u74	Transparent! She has nothing to hide!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u75	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u76	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the final stage of our consideration of the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrecy, at the end of the Joint Joint Committee which, on 24 May, concluded positively. It is certainly a good time to recall the essence of the matter, by means of words which will probably be more flat, but also, no doubt, closer to reality than those which were held before me. The protection of business secrecy is finally entering our legal arsenal: this entry is the result of the failure, since 2011, of two bills. It was therefore time to include it in our positive law. At a time when Brussels' constraints are often vilified, we recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that Brussels has helped us on this subject by obliging us to get out of the deficit situation in which we could have found ourselves and by allowing us to move forward by building a mechanism in line with current developments in our society. The bill defines business secrecy as information that must be known to a limited number of people, that has an actual or potential commercial value – and not economic, as the Senate would have wished, by an excessive extension of the scope that we had set – because of its secrecy, and that is subject to reasonable measures of protection. The inclusion of this definition in positive law – even though it was until then only a case-law – undoubtedly represents a real improvement in the legal certainty of economic exchanges, since it will enable actions to be taken before civil and commercial courts to prevent, stop or redress an infringement of the confidentiality of cases. But, as you know, the fundamental balance of the text is found in the exceptions to the protection of this secrecy, as well as in the penalties provided for in cases of delaying or abusive procedures. They aim, unambiguously, to ensure respect for fundamental rights, by protecting as much freedom of the press, whistleblowers, employees, trade unions and staff representatives in case of disclosure of information on grounds of general interest. To paraphrase our dear colleague Dominique Potier, the risk taken is, of course, that of freedom. Indeed, we do not wish to see the recurrence of situations to which people such as Alexander Berthelot have been subjected, which this morning has been mentioned several times. There is no doubt that there is a real risk that companies will abuse, on the basis of non-respect for business secrecy, the procedures against journalists, particularly those with the weakest means, with the sole aim of hindering their search for information. The same work can of course be done with regard to whistleblowers, as well as with regard to employees and any person acting on the basis of a recognised public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the strength of this proposal for a law that has firmly targeted the Community's objective of economic protection of enterprises while at the same time innovating in relation to a simple logic of transposition to which we could finally have confined ourselves. Of course, reference must be made to the introduction, by way of an amendment by our rapporteur, of civil sanctions, including a fine of up to 20% of the amount of damages claimed, which could be imposed on the perpetrators of delaying or abusive manoeuvres. The figure of EUR 10 million, mentioned earlier by Mr Gauvain, gives a good idea of the risk to companies adopting such practices. The sanction is therefore particularly dissuasive and will undoubtedly make companies or individuals who might still be tempted to wait, through the financial threat, for the freedoms of expression, of revelation in good faith, of communication, more generally the requirements of transparency that are going through our society today. The drafts adopted at first reading by the National Assembly and the Senate were relatively close, with one notable exception: the upper house, for reasons recalled earlier, derived from a constitutional analysis that we do not share, intended to abolish the sanctions provided for in the event of a delaying or abusive procedure. It is therefore an emblematic measure of the bill, a guarantee of its balance that could disappear, which very quickly aroused a profound incomprehension and strong reactions from its potential beneficiaries – proof, if necessary, that the substantive work of the National Assembly is perfectly adapted to the circumstances and protection needs of the authors of revelations. In this context, we must all the more welcome the sense of responsibility and the excellent work carried out by Raphaël Gauvain and Christophe-André Frassa, the two rapporteurs, that he has made it possible to reach an agreement. We can therefore assert with strength and pride, as opposed to sometimes superficial or truncated interpretations of the will of the legislator, that this text is excellent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u77	Thank you for concluding, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u78	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will borrow my conclusion from Montesquieu for whom freedom is the right to do whatever the laws permit. It goes without saying, Madam Minister, that under these conditions, the La République en marche group will enthusiastically vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u79	How eager to be at the service of money!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u80	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u81	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our examination of the bill to transpose the directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure, more commonly referred to as the 'business secret' directive. The expression "business secret" has made – and continues to do – a lot of ink, feeding many phantasms and raising many concerns. I will not go back to the rather inappropriate and inadequate translation of secret trade by business secret. Indeed, the concept of trade can cover both economic value and commercial value: this point has been the subject of intense discussions and exchanges between the National Assembly and the Senate. But in view of the issues we are debating today, our Parliament has been able to demonstrate a spirit of responsibility. It should be recalled that, in a globalised world, competition and competition between economies, which are often fierce and unfair, entails many risks for our companies, including industrial and economic espionage. It is therefore entirely appropriate to define a common legal framework at EU level in order to protect innovation, research and production by researchers, inventors and business businesses of know-how and skills. Indeed, there was no reason why the European Union should remain the only region in the world not to have such a legal framework at a time when other major regions, such as China, the United States and Japan, to name but a few, have been able to set themselves extraordinarily protective standards – to say the least. As you said, the rapporteur, France, on this subject, was very early on: as early as the 2000s, it was considered useful to protect the research and innovation interests of our companies. I have at this stage a thought for our former colleague Bernard Carayon as well as for other forerunners of the reflection on economic intelligence – not to mention Jean-Jacques Urvoas, who, when he was chairman of the Law Committee, had already tried to launch this debate. It turned out that it was ultimately at European level that things could move forward as effectively as possible. As the European Commission holds the legislative initiative, it has come back to Commissioner Michel Barnier to present a draft directive which the Community institutions have subsequently discussed very long, very deeply and very seriously. As I had the opportunity to say at first reading, I was rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs in the European Parliament on this draft directive. I can therefore testify to the in-depth work that has been carried out in the European Parliament on this text, in common with almost all the political groups. This Parliament is also due to the introduction of an explicit reference in Article 1e of the directive to the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information and to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It is also because the European Parliament wanted it to do so that the same Article 1st contains provisions which preserve the mobility of workers or relating to the experience and skills which the latter have little to gain in the performance of their duties. All these provisions have been very widely and widely approved by 80% of the Members of the European Parliament, belonging to very different political groups. They have led to a balanced text that will safeguard both the interests of our businesses and fundamental freedoms, first and foremost freedom of information and expression. This balance is reflected in the bill that we are finalizing this morning. It ensures – in the words of our rapporteur – that both the spirit and the letter of the European directive are faithfully transposed, even taking into account the very interesting additions that have been made and on which I will not come back.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u82	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u83	In particular, the careful work of the two rapporteurs, Raphaël Gauvain and Christophe-André Frassa, is to be commended for articulating the provisions of the Sapin 2 law with those of this bill. It is therefore in a spirit of responsibility that the Republican Group will vote for the text before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u84	On the whole of the draft law as it follows from the text of the Joint Joint Committee, I have before me a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u85	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes the fact that a compromise text could be found with the Senate on this bill transposing the directive of 8 June 2016 on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. In a world where trade has increased in recent decades and where innovation, the acquisition of specific know-how and real adaptability remain the key to success for our companies, we in turn stress the need to protect – more than ever – the full secrecy of business, in order to enable them to dispose of and retain the competitive advantages acquired by their merits. In an economy where the importance of intangible assets continues to grow, business secrecy does not enjoy a type of protection similar to that of intellectual property rights. It is therefore, in our view, particularly necessary to establish a principle of protection applicable to business secrets, in order to give our companies the capacity to protect their know-how and information which have become so essential to their economic activity. This compromise text, which emerged from the Joint Joint Committee, complements French legislation on business secrecy, while being part of an approach favourable to the competitiveness of enterprises. In order to pursue a sustainable development of Europe based on balanced economic growth, price stability and a highly competitive market economy as referred to in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, our country must indeed take its part in the development of national legislation conducive to effective and harmonised protection of business secrecy. Such legislation will form, with the harmonisation of all national and European legislation, a favourable framework for the expression of sound competition. While this bill cannot make it possible to express pure and perfect competition, it does, at the very least, allow for a greater focus on fair competition. Such an approach, favourable to the competitiveness of companies, will enable each of them to protect the expression of its merits, already enshrined in European competition law. The primary objective of the so-called "business secrecy" directive, as well as of the proposed law that we are going to adopt, is to establish uniform protection of business secrecy on European territory. They both propose a harmonised definition, indicate a sufficient, proportionate and comparable level of reparation in the event of a violation and provide for cases in which the protection of such secrecy cannot be opposed in order, in particular, to guarantee freedom of expression, in particular freedom of the press. In this respect, the MODEM and related group, with particular attention to the preservation of all forms of freedom of expression, considers that the drafting of the proposal is, in accordance with the Directive, very clear on exceptions. Indeed, I would like to reiterate with force and vigour, in order to reassure our worried fellow citizens who have mobilized on this point, the secrecy of business is not enforceable against journalists, whistleblowers or employees in the exercise of their right to information and consultation. As such, I would like to point out that the definition of the whistleblower is broad, broader than that contained in the Sapin 2 law...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u86	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u87	Fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u88	... in order to ensure adequate protection for these people whose fighting is necessary for our society. I would also like to go back to some of the examples used by the opponents of this bill, and first of all that of the Mediator: Dr. Frachon's work was initially based on a longitudinal investigation that she herself had conducted, without relying on documents internal to the laboratory. It was later that these famous documents were seized by the investigating judge. It will always be possible; The drafting of the bill has ensured that this is done. Second example: Conforama and the Challenge article: this is no more than the application of a case law of the Court of Cassation of 15 December 2015 in which the High Court states that the confidentiality of a procedure for the prevention of economic difficulties must be sanctified and that this does not violate the freedom of expression of journalists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u89	I don't know, I don't know. I don't know, I don't know.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u90	These often cited cases, therefore, do not have the exemplary scope that some want to give them to oppose this bill. Finally, we very much welcome the fact that the Joint Joint Committee has re-established the article, which we adopted in committee, on sanctions in the event of a delaying and abusive procedure. The text thus introduces a civil fine mechanism against any unfair proceedings that companies may bring against persons against whom the secrecy of the cases is not enforceable. Fighting the so-called gags was indispensable to us. We are grateful to honourable senators for agreeing to amend the text to that effect. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] This bill is important to our economy and that of the European countries, given the economic development of many regional powers. This major challenge for the coming years requires us to have the means to protect the know-how of our economic actors, French or European, and simply the expression of their merits. European harmonisation is essential and we are pleased to be part of it. We will therefore vote without fear and with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u92	The general discussion is closed. Mr rapporteur, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u93	I do not want to reopen the debate, but I would like to respond in a few words to Mr Potier on the subject of dialogue with the opposition. You said, Mr Potier, that we did not accept any opposition amendments, but that is not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u94	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u95	In any case, I would like to point out that, in the context of the examination of the text in committee and in the sitting, on the one hand, a number of amendments proposed by the opposition were accepted, on the other hand, other amendments were adopted unanimously. In addition, as part of Parliament's oversight mission, two co-rapporteurs were appointed last week to the Law Committee to monitor the proper implementation of the law. As rapporteur for the bill, I will be one of them; A member of the opposition, in this case a member of the New Left Group, Mrs Karamanli, agreed to be co-rapporteur. Our work will be to examine what case law will result from the law, and whether the concerns expressed by the opposition about possible drifts, in particular the proliferation of gag procedures and the fact that companies would take this arm-to-body mechanism to multiply procedures to muzzle journalists, were justified. We will have multiple hearings in the Committee on Laws and if any corrections have to be made, including a possible strengthening of the civil fine, then we will be able to do so. The majority group – and I have no doubt that the Government – is very committed to dialogue with the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u96	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u97	I will add a few words to reply to Mrs Faucillon, Mr Potier and Mr Ruffin. I would like to express my astonishment on two points. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] First, Mrs Faucillon, you said that the Government and, perhaps, the majority – I don't remember any more if, in this case, you assimilated them – remained "deaf and accusers" in the face of the requests of some members of the national representation and the 550,000 signatories of the petition that you mentioned. I would like to tell you that we are certainly not deaf and in no way accuse of the representatives of national sovereignty. That is not the kind of Government and that is neither our intention nor our objective. I wanted to stress that. Then, and I will stop there, I read with the utmost attention – I insist – the petition published yesterday in Libération.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u98	It was useless, in that case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u99	[["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] I am surprised that nothing in this text makes any mention of the definition that has finally been given – and which I hope will be retained today – to the secrecy of cases, nor of the explicit derogation granted to whistleblowers, trade union representatives and freedom of expression, or even of the civil sanction procedure that has been put in place. I am therefore surprised that a genuine democratic debate can be organised without mentioning the objective elements contained in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u100	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me. Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u101	I spoke about this when the text was presented. In the Joint Joint Committee, we did not have time to find a common position with the rapporteur of the Senate on paragraph 78 of Article 1, but we finally agreed on it. It is a mechanism which, if a document discussed in the course of the judicial debate or before the administrative courts appears to the judge to infringe on the confidentiality of cases, specifies how it may or may not be subject to adversarial proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u102	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u103	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u104	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u105	I would like to take advantage of this amendment to point out three things. Firstly, the directive is a decoy. Unfortunately, neither this directive nor this text will ensure the protection of our digital sovereignty and will not remedy the industrial espionage and looting of France, and other countries of the European Union, by the National Security Agency, the American security agency, in particular. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Secondly, those who sign petitions, journalists and members of non-governmental organizations who protest against this text, can read. I can't believe they're being accused of intellectual dishonesty! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] To put it simple, the problem comes from the incessant use you make of this word, which is also found in the directive: "derogation". This means that the principle is business secrecy and that freedom of expression, freedom of information, protection of whistleblowers are the exception. This is basically what should lead to the rejection of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u106	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u107	This is an editorial amendment. We realized that there was an error of reference in the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u108	I put to the vote the whole bill, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee, as amended by the amendments adopted by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u109	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u110	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u111	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, on the freedom to choose one's professional future (No. 904, 1019, 975, 981). The remaining time for the discussion of this text is five hours and fifty-nine minutes for the moving Republic Group, of which 233 amendments remain under discussion; four hours and thirty minutes for the Republican Group, of which 684 amendments remain under discussion; one hour and forty-nine minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of which 128 amendments remain under discussion; two hours and thirty minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, 114 of which remain under discussion; two hours and thirteen minutes for the New Left Group, of which 129 amendments remain under discussion; one hour and fifty-eight minutes for the Group of the European People's Party, 74 of which remain under discussion; one hour and thirty-one minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of which 64 amendments remain under discussion; Thirty-nine minutes for non-attached Members, of which 58 amendments remain under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u112	Last night, the Assembly continued its consideration of the articles of the bill, ending with amendment No. 1605 to article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u113	The Minister for Labour has the floor to support Amendment No. 1605.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u114	This amendment is to be clarified, since the drafting of the Social Affairs Committee may lead to difficulties of interpretation. It seems to us necessary to draw a clear distinction between the paragraphs which refer, one, to training at the initiative of the employee, the other, to the development of skills at the initiative of the employer. The two points can obviously converge, but the formal amendment seeks to clarify the wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u115	Mrs Fabre, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u116	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u117	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u118	It starts pretty badly: frankly, it's not a formal amendment, but rather a major retropedalage!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u119	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u120	Yes! You were not in committee, Madam Minister, when I tabled with my group an amendment to supplement paragraph 20 with the words "or, for employees whose working hours are fixed by a lump sum agreement in days or hours per year, up to a maximum of 2% of the package". That is exactly the amendment you have just tabled again. Our amendment was rejected in committee in favour of an amendment by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u121	No, you are confused with the following amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u122	No, it's this one. In short, returning to a provision that we ourselves had defended in committee, we lost time and explanations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u124	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor to support Amendment No. 163.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u125	The bill strengthens professional maintenance, which legitimately puts companies in the face of their responsibilities for training their employees. We fully agree with that. However, it becomes clear that this duty of training can only be achieved through voluntary investments, since the personal training account – CPF – can no longer be "internalised" – forgiveness for this rather poorly chosen term –, that pooled funding is reduced and that periods of professionalisation are abolished. In line with the same desire to make the rise in skills of employees, to which we are very attached, coincide with the needs of companies – which are the driving line – in a spirit of co-construction of paths, this amendment tends to make professional maintenance an opportunity to consider a co-investment in training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u127	The discussion on these subjects should not be reserved for professional maintenance: co-construction will have to irrigate the daily relationship between the employer and the employee. I would remind you that yesterday our House adopted an amendment to encourage ownership of this issue of co-construction by company agreement. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u128	Mrs Fabre has the floor to support Amendment No. 834.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u129	The aim of this amendment is to accelerate the rise of the CPF by providing that professional maintenance is an opportunity to inform the employee about the opportunity and the need to activate this account. The idea is to strengthen the communication on this still unknown device of many employees, and to use professional maintenance for this purpose. It seems to me essential to provide for any measures which may contribute to the information of employees, so that they can appropriate this tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u131	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u132	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u133	When you talk about a chatty law... In this case, it is obvious that, in any undertaking, professional maintenance provides the necessary elements of reflection for employees to take charge of their training. Again, we return to the old world with the chatty law. Such a measure indicates a complete lack of confidence in businesses and challenges the competence of human resources managers or the mere direct contact between the employee and the employer in SMEs. This amendment therefore seems to me to be really useless.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u134	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to participate in the vote by raising your hand clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u135	Yes, because that, Mr. President, was more than a limit!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u136	The result of the vote was quite clear, Mr Di Filippo: you saw it by yourself, but I invite everyone to vote even more clearly. Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor to support Amendment No. 1855.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u137	Since 2014, an interview has been compulsory for the employee, following a break in professional activity due, for example, to maternity leave, parental leave or sick leave. The aim of the amendment is to enable the employee to anticipate this interview at his or her request. Resumption of activity after a long stop may be a source of concern or even anxiety. The ability of employees to anticipate maintenance would therefore, in some cases, make it possible to reassure them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u139	To the extent that anticipation would not be systematic but made at the employee's request, the amendment seems interesting to me. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u140	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u141	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u142	I call Mr Vercamer to support Amendment No. 1539.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u143	The Commission has introduced a measure according to which the employee must be informed, during his biannual professional interview, of the existence of the professional development council – CEP. I propose to extend this measure to Article L. 6315-1 of the Labour Code, on summary maintenance every six years. This interview, which makes it possible to take stock of the situation, will therefore be an opportunity to know whether the employee has benefited from the vocational guidance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u145	The amendment was satisfied with the wording of paragraph 8 adopted in committee. I therefore suggest withdrawal; Otherwise the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u147	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u148	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Mr Vercamer?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u149	No, Mr. President. My amendment concerns the second part of the article of the Labour Code mentioned. In other words, the Commission has planned the measure for biennial maintenance; For my part, I would like to extend it to the interview which takes place every six years, which is intended to take stock of the last six years. The purpose of this interview is to verify whether or not the employee had recourse to the CEP. In addition to the information, a review is needed on this subject; That's what I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u150	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 529.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u151	The purpose of this amendment is to re-establish a provision that, while it was included in the original version of the bill, was deleted in committee. Now the possibility for the employer to define a framework, objectives and collective criteria for abundance of the personal training account is referred to collective bargaining of branch or enterprise. From an obligation on the employer to a simple ability to supplement the employee's training rights on a six-yearly basis. Here we have the opportunity to involve employers in the personal training account. The aim is that it is not just an individual tool for the employee, but a result of co-responsibility and co-construction between the employer and the employee, with the aim of securing career paths.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u153	Unfavorable opinion. Contrary to the summary statement of your amendment, Mr Dharréville, the passage that we deleted in committee was not an obligation for the employer. The increased abundance of the CPF is in no way an imperative, verified within six years, at the time of the balance sheet. On the contrary, this means respecting not two out of three items, but two out of four items. Like several trade unions, I have seen the deletion of this provision as a dilution of the obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u154	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 1726 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u155	This amendment, in line with Amendment No 1648 to Article 1, aims to simplify the sanctions system. The penalty which provides for an abundance of the employee's personal training account will be due only if the employee has not benefited from professional interviews and non-compulsory training. This step reinforces the commitment of enterprises with at least 50 employees to implement non-compulsory training measures, i.e. those which are not imposed by the exercise of an activity or function, in accordance with an international convention or a legal or regulatory provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u156	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u157	This amendment is the result of a reflection initiated from the beginning of the hearings, in order to overcome the dissatisfaction generated by the system of the summary balance sheet and the abundance of corrective measures, as foreseen today. These criteria are in fact not fully operational. Today, all training activities, even when they constitute a legal obligation for the exercise of a profession, are taken into account in the criteria. The committee has accepted your amendment, which puts an end to these items, to concentrate all action on the effective follow-up of action other than that covered by a legal obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u158	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 574.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u159	He's being defended, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u160	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 602 and 1306. Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor to support Amendment No. 602.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u161	In the context of the two-year professional interview, the draft law enshrines the possibility, by collective agreement of enterprise or branch, of defining the modalities of abundance of the employees' CPF and of negotiating certain aspects of this interview. In particular, a collective agreement will be able to change the way in which the employee's career path is assessed and the periodicity of the job interviews which take place every two years. These provisions make it possible to customize the arrangements for abundance of the CPF as well as certain aspects of professional maintenance, in particular in order to take account of the specificities of the occupational sectors as regards the evolution of the career paths of the employees. In order to regulate and harmonise the rules relating to this abundance by collective agreement and the arrangements for carrying out professional interviews within a sector of activity, priority should be given to the sectoral agreement on the relevant enterprise agreement. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u162	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1306.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u163	The draft law opens up the possibility, by means of a company agreement and, in the absence of a branch agreement, of changing the periodicity of the professional interviews devoted to vocational training, the methods of assessing the employee's career path, the criteria for abundance of the CPF and certain aspects of the professional interviews according to the specifics of the sector. We believe that it is preferable to give priority to the branch agreement rather than to the company agreement, in order to ensure that the rules applicable to the same sector are harmonized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u165	Unfavorable opinion. The priority given to the company agreement is in line with the ordinances on strengthening social dialogue. This makes it possible to take better account of the stakes of the company and to develop the social dialogue within it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u167	I am somewhat surprised at these amendments, which add complexity. In the 1.3 million enterprises in France, the employer and the employee must be able to discuss without being told exactly what subjects to address, in what order. As I said in the discussion on enabling and ratifying bills, there is a need to have some confidence in businesses and employees. Of course, if no company agreement is reached, it will be necessary to return to the branch agreement. But please let us trust the dialogue between the employee and the employer! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I take this opportunity to greet the young students in the stands, whom we are delighted to welcome. Although the debates must seem a little complicated to you, you see the Government and Parliament making a law for you, because it is you who will have the choice of your profession and your professional life. And we wish you that it is as exciting as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u168	I am also speaking to these students to measure the chance that this direct statement by the Minister of Labour represents. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u169	Madam Minister, I must recognize a form of coherence. You reminded us of what I blamed you in the rostrum, the fact that this reform respects the mould of ordinances when you suggested that this text would open up other perspectives. The foundation of this bill, as we are verifying here, is that of the ordinances. That is why I will support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u170	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u171	[[Applause]] I too would like to greet these young visitors and to send a special greeting to my young intern, a second-time student, who deserves our applause as well. It is good that these young people can immerse themselves in our world: although the debates are sometimes a little lively, I think they will be able to understand why. With regard to this amendment, I do not understand your position, Madam Minister. You know as well as I do, if not better, the weakness of the system and the isolation of companies, which are not always supported by the industry. Opening the possibility of changes by the branch agreement is neither an injunction nor a constraint. Once again, you close the door, especially for small businesses, to the possibility of opening up the professional future of their employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u172	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 625.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u173	Because the branch plays a central role, it is important to rely on the branch agreement. However, a significant number of SMEs and TPEs do not belong to any industry. There is an inequality of employees with regard to the contracts and proposals that can be made to them. In addition, in the years to come, many activities, therefore new businesses, will be created, which will not necessarily be linked to a branch. In order to give everyone the same rights, this amendment provides that an interprofessional agreement will open up the same capacity as the company agreement or the branch agreement, in the event that the company is not attached to a branch.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u175	The inter-professional level does not seem to be appropriate for the intended purpose, i.e. the evolution of the career paths of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u176	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 1153.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u177	Paragraph 11 provides that a company or branch agreement may separately assess the criteria referred to in Article L. 6315-1 of the Labour Code and the periodicity of the interviews. While we are in favour of introducing flexibility, it seems to us important to include in the law that, while the periodicity of the interviews can be reviewed, the collective agreement must, however, provide for an interview every six years at least. Failure to set limits on this flexibility could be detrimental to the employee, who in some cases would not benefit from any maintenance. However, these interviews must be an opportunity for employees to take stock of their career in the company, their professional and wage developments, and their training paths.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u179	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment is satisfied, since, by definition, the periodicity of professional maintenance cannot exceed that of the summary state of affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u181	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u182	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u183	I withdraw the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u184	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 1622.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u185	This amendment, tabled by Mrs Firmin Le Bodo, aims to stress the need for training co-built by the employee and the company. As part of the mandatory two-year professional interviews and the CPF, the company will have to work with the employee to provide consistent vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u187	Unfavorable opinion, as we mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u188	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1931.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u189	The aim of this amendment is to extend the duties of the employer with regard to the adaptation of employees to their workplace. The employee must be able to acquire and maintain an informed and critical view of his working environment, an essential condition for introducing a hint of democracy and, above all, meaning into the enterprise. The employer must inform all its employees about the productive and financial mechanisms in which they participate. Everyone has the right to know the meaning of what he does, in order to better appropriate it. Working in a factory, without knowing the destination of the products; cleaning up in a company, without knowing what projects are being developed there; keeping the entrance to a building without any idea of what is going on there: all this helps to empty the work out of its meaning. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Giving a more comprehensive perspective is a first step towards a necessary corporate citizenship. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u191	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment significantly increases the article on the obligation to maintain employability. This very broad definition will give rise to a new judicialization, as it will be difficult to define the scope concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u192	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1930.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u193	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u194	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1933.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u195	Through this amendment, I return to the burden on the problem of sexism in the company. In the world of work, women regularly face gender-based attitudes or decisions: 81 per cent of non-senior women who are victims of gender-based behaviours at work have already adopted avoidance behaviour so that they do not have to deal with such behaviours and 40 per cent of them have not responded because, according to them, it is of no use. Many media cases have highlighted this well-known scourge of women and very few men. The world of work must absolutely get rid of it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The amendment proposes to oblige companies with more than 11 employees to organise annual training in the fight against sexism. The measures will never be too numerous to combat sexism both in the company and in our society. This training would have the immense merit of putting words on a phenomenon not well known to men and, I repeat, too well known to women.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u197	This topic will be addressed in Title III. Unfavorable opinion at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u198	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1935.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u199	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u200	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1936.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u201	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u202	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 2041.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u203	The amendment is intended to coordinate the competence development plan with the social dialogue in the company on subjects of vocational training where it exists, or to include it in the annual consultation of the Social and Economic Committee on the strategic guidelines of the company, which deals with both the GPEC – forward-looking management of employment and skills – and with guidance on vocational training, as a supplementary measure. A strong dialogue on these issues within the company is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u205	I share your objective of better articulation between the tools at the service of training in the company and the negotiation on the GPEC or on the vocational training orientations. Despite its rejection by the committee, I am personally in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u207	The amendment already seems to me to be satisfactory. I was considering his withdrawal, but I have no objection on the merits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u208	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 626.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u209	I am not going to defend this amendment again, but I would like a clarification. The inter-professional level may not be the right level, but what do employees of SMEs or TPEs who are not part of a branch do, and therefore would not benefit from the same opportunities, thus experiencing inequality between employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u211	It is the whole purpose of the bill to provide for minimum conditions of rights. In addition, it aims to develop co-construction within enterprises in the course of professional interviews and in the day-to-day relations between the employee and the employer. We hope that the CPF in euros will encourage the agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u212	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u213	Unfavorable opinion. Today, 95% of employees are covered by branch agreements. I am enjoying the changes of opinion – 2018 is not 2017! Last year, the LR group considered that the ordinances were too much in the direction of the branches and not enough in the direction of the companies – this did not escape anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u214	We voted them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u215	But it is not forbidden to change your mind! The social partners are not in a position to negotiate for the remaining 5%. The restructuring of the branches should make it possible to extend the scope of the latter so that, in the long run, everyone is covered by an agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u216	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u217	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 243.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u218	Article 6 sets out the conditions for the implementation outside working time of the training measures covered by the competence development plan. Such shares shall be determined either by collective agreement of an undertaking or, in the absence of such agreement, by branch or, in the absence of such agreement and with the agreement of the employee, limited to 30 hours per year and per employee. The amendment specifies the legal framework applicable to employees whose working hours are fixed by a lump sum agreement in days or hours per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u220	Your drafting complements that adopted in committee with regard to the duration of training outside working time for employees on the lump sum. This clarification is welcome. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u221	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha to support Amendment No. 729.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u222	As a result of Recommendation No. 12 of the report of the Delegation to Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, this amendment seeks to introduce a ceiling on training hours which may be carried out outside working hours, including in the presence of a collective agreement. Article 6 limits training outside working time to 30 hours per year, but only in the absence of collective agreement. Otherwise, it is the collective agreement that sets the hourly limit, without any legal cap. In view of the impact of training outside working hours on women's and men's equal access to such training, and in the interests of a good link between work and personal life, it seems necessary to set a maximum hourly limit of 40 hours which should be observed by collective agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u224	The purpose of the reference to collective bargaining is precisely to define a ceiling above the surrogate ceiling. I do not think it necessary to set a maximum limit in the event of collective agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u225	Mrs Fabre has the floor to support Amendment No. 837.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u226	The aim of this amendment is to ensure equal access for all employees to training outside working time by providing for childcare costs. The aim is to encourage training by relieving the financial burden of child care. This amendment is intended in particular for single parents. The aim is to prevent their particular constraints from preventing them from gaining access to training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u228	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u229	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u230	You're asking companies to take care of the cost of child care to allow employees to attend their training, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u231	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u232	It is the company agreement that can provide for the take-over.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u233	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u234	Why is the amendment limited to childcare? You start making lists again, you close the system instead of opening it by restricting it to child care. Other constraints may exist, and these could not be taken into account. I absolutely do not understand the spirit of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u235	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u236	This would imply that other costs could not be covered. It's dangerous. Since the text mentions what can be taken into account, it means that the rest cannot be taken into account. As a result, transportation costs may not be covered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u237	Exactly. The best is the enemy of good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u238	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1641.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u239	This is an amendment of consistency. Its purpose is to change the limit of the duration of non-working training measures for employees whose working hours are fixed by a lump sum agreement in days or hours during the year. Under Article 6, in the absence of a collective agreement, the limit is set at thirty hours against eighty hours previously. In the interests of consistency, the amendment therefore proposes to lower the limit for employees to the package from 5% of the duration of the package to 2%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u240	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u241	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u242	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u243	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We are of course in favour of this amendment because it corresponds to the one we tabled. This is called an amendment of retropedaling. I regret, Madam Minister, that you are putting the rapporteur, who was defending a position to the contrary, in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u244	Don't forget to quote your excellent sources!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u245	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 1307.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u246	The aim of this amendment is to clarify that the refusal of training outside working time, in the case of collective agreements, cannot constitute a fault or a ground for dismissal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u248	This is an unfavorable opinion, because the following amendment that I tabled is an answer to this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u249	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u250	I suggest that the amendment be withdrawn in favour of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u251	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u252	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I can only commend the wisdom of the Government. However, it is extraordinary: we propose the amendment in committee, the Government rejects it and suddenly the rapporteur repeats its content. I regret that the fate of this amendment is less related to its purpose than to its political colour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u253	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u254	Has the amendment been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u255	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u256	Mrs Fabre has the floor to support Amendment No. 1718.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u257	Your amendment was not accepted because it deletes the entire paragraph and, consequently, the reference to the competence development plan which must be retained. I am trying to show integrity in my assessment of the amendments, and I hope you will be grateful for that. My amendment clarifies the fact that the employee's refusal to take training outside working time is neither a fault nor a reason for dismissal, in the case of a collective agreement or in the alternative framework. It thus responds to the concern that you expressed in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u258	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 964 and 1308. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 964.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u259	This is a fallback amendment. Article 6, paragraph 25, repeals three important articles of the Labour Code relating to the development of the skills of employees within the enterprise. It is symptomatic of the Government's commitment to de-responsibility of employers for the training of their employees. These three articles are as follows. Article L. 6321-8 defines the undertakings which the undertaking undertakes as a result of the training of the employee in order to effectively recognise an evolution in his qualification and to take into account the efforts he has made. Article L. 6321-10 provides for the payment of a training allowance equal to a percentage of the reference net remuneration of the employee concerned for hours of training for the development of skills completed outside working time. Article L. 6321-12 recalls that the training allowance and its increase are not of a remuneration nature. Article 6 thus enshrines the rejection of the employer's responsibility over the employee, who will now be responsible for training outside his working time without compensatory allowance, up to a limit of 30 hours per year. In addition, it removes all the commitments that the employer could make for a change in the skills and professional qualification of the employee within the undertaking. Such provisions will reinforce inequalities in access to training, as training outside working time involves costs for employees – transport, childcare – which some of them will not be able to bear. That is why we call for the deletion of paragraph 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u260	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 1308.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u261	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u262	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u263	Unfavorable opinion. One of the aims of the text is to bring the regimes closer to the two main tools, training on working time and training outside working time. Furthermore, as I mentioned earlier, follow-up to training outside working time is subject to the agreement of the employee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u264	Mrs Fabre has the floor to support Amendment No. 1419.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u265	It's editorial, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u266	I have before me a number of amendments containing additional articles after Article 6. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1937.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u267	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u268	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 1309.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u269	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u270	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 1310.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u271	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u272	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 1311.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u273	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u274	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1312.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u275	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u276	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1900.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u277	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u278	Mrs Fabre has the floor to support Amendment No. 2129.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u279	It aims to create an individual right to leave to validate experience and to bring into line the provisions relating to the implementation of such leave with the new provisions of Article 1 of the draft law on the personal training account. The idea is to provide a clear, protective and secure framework for employees who wish to validate their experience. The amendment provides that the employee may apply for leave of absence for this purpose, which may be refused only for reasons relating to the proper functioning of the undertaking, which must be justified. It also provides for the maintenance of the remuneration and social protection of the employee, which is equivalent to effective working time. It sets the duration of the leave at 24 hours, as well as for the assessment of competences. The Commission proposes this step forward in order to facilitate access to validation of experience.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u280	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 1313.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u281	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u282	I call Mr Pierre Dharréville to support Amendment No. 2073, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 6a.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u283	You know our will to strengthen the rights and power of employees to intervene in companies. This amendment is part of this process. Currently, the development of the training plan is carried out under the full responsibility of the employer, after consultation with staff representatives. We propose that consultation on vocational training, when it is separated from consultation on social policy, be subject to the assent of the Social and Economic Committee in enterprises with more than 50 employees. The employer would therefore be required to respect the suggestions made by staff representatives in their notice of the training plan. This would allow them to have real levers for action and intervention on the choice of training measures, which is a fundamental issue. This would help to strengthen social democracy in the enterprise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u284	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u285	The assent you call for of your wishes already exists when a works council has been set up. It seems to me essential to preserve the proactive nature of this approach, as provided for in the Ordinance on Social Dialogue. The extension of the assent procedure to the Social and Economic Committee could, on the contrary, cause blockages, which is not the aim. The committee therefore rejects this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u287	The same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u288	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u289	With this type of reasoning, the rapporteur, you support the employer's power, which runs counter to a number of thoughts expressed during our discussions on the nature and role of the company, particularly in the field of vocational training. You tell us, among other things, that you want to make employees more involved in the training plan. So I don't understand the answer you gave me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u290	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 7. First of all, Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u291	It seems to me important to stress that Article 7 plays a major role in simplifying learning, which, we all agree, is an excellent way of training. The system that governs and administers learning has long been considered too complex. It will now be more readable not only for apprentices, of course, but also and especially for businesses. The aim is to develop this path of excellence by attracting more young people, but also by encouraging companies to recruit through learning. The transformation of learning is one of the ambitions of this text. It goes, of course, through the reform of contractual conditions for apprenticeship work. The filing of the apprenticeship contract will now be simplified; it will be made available to the competent operators. I would like to commend the work we have done in the Committee on Social Affairs: following extensive exchanges, Article 7 has been enriched by several additions. It now specifies the tasks of the consular chambers, whose role will be essential for the proper implementation of the reform. In this way, the consular chambers will be able to assist companies in the preparation of the apprenticeship contract. They will also be able to conclude partnership agreements with skill operators in order to participate in the training of learning teachers – the tutoring function is, as we know, very important. They will also be able to participate in the regional public guidance service. We are fully aware of the expertise of the consular chambers in this area. That is why we wanted to include these provisions in the legislation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I think we all agree here that the reform of learning will require the collaboration of all the players in the system. That is, in any case, our objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u292	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u293	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u294	We discuss the chapter entitled "Transforming alternation". It's a big challenge, a big challenge. We appreciate the importance of this reform in supporting young people towards training and employment. Let us not forget that, at the centre of the scheme, there is, of course, the company, that is to say, all those who will accompany the young people. We do need flexibility and ambition. With a youth unemployment rate of more than 22 per cent or even 50 per cent in some neighbourhoods in our cities or even in rural areas, we cannot afford the failure of this reform. It will succeed, Madam Minister, only if it brings together all the energies and territories, valuing best practices on the ground and taking account of needs. The first challenge to succeed is certainly agility and responsiveness. In my view, therefore, there is a need for both national and territorial leadership, because it is together that the professional branches and the regions will succeed. They must have the relevant levers for piloting and developing learning, as close as possible to businesses and territories. I wonder, in this respect, about your desire to centralise through France competences, and by favouring the professional branches to the detriment of our regions, which are nevertheless totally involved in this matter. The challenge is certainly that of anticipating skills needs at the life-basin level. For my part, I am in favour of co-construction by the regions and the professional branches of a multi-annual regional strategy, with objectives and which can be revised every year. In addition, it will be essential to take up the challenge of orientation in order to attract young people to the jobs of tomorrow, not to mention the balance between the territories. The minister has heard of the possible closure of a number of training centres for apprentices – CFA – in France. Of course, this concern is evident on the ground. Don't worry! Finally, let us not forget that there is an organisation in the territory, with consular chambers doing their work very well. Article 7 deals specifically with their role. I believe that the submission of the contract, the mediation and the training of tutors must be their responsibility, because it is close to the ground that the learning will be successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u295	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u296	Unlike the previous speaker, I would like to warn you about article 7 and articles 8, 9 and 13. I am far from welcoming this simplification for businesses and, to a certain extent, for the territories. These articles, which tend to change the rules governing the work of apprentices, divert the meaning of learning. I would like to reiterate here that apprentices are above all young people in training. They are there to learn, to train and to qualify. They are not meant to be a cheap labour force. With these changes of regulation, being apprenticed to twenty-nine years becomes the norm, increasing the number of hours of work and allowing night work becomes possible, the conditions for breaching the contract are reviewed. It should be remembered that learning must be used to acquire a diploma or a referenced qualification, not to put small skills at the service of companies – as proposed in Article 13. In our view, this regulation therefore makes no sense. Young people who follow an apprenticeship have more difficulty obtaining their diploma than those who are in the vocational sector. I don't think you'll make it easier for them by tightening the terms of their contract. You even make a contradiction: while pretending that you have to train a skilled workforce, mastering broad theoretical and practical knowledge, so that young people can adapt to several jobs – instead of being assigned to a single job, according to the company's short-term vision – you give up valuing the learning industry, simply offering companies a cheap workforce. I conclude by expressing another concern. I fear that you will soon show the same myopia in general vocational education as in apprenticeship. We see the first effects in reducing hours of general education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u298	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u299	Minister, we fervently hope for the success of learning reform. In this regard, articles 7 and 8 seem to us to be moving in the right direction. One of the reasons for blocking the French apprenticeship system is the status, which is clearly inadequate for the needs of companies. There was a need to remove many of the constraints that affected the dynamics of the industry. These two articles will regulate certain aspects and provide relaxation. The provisions contained therein are essential. It seems to me that these were the actions to be taken in order to give learning the important place which it legitimately has in the way of access to employment. However, it was not necessary, in our view, to remove from the regions their competence in this matter. If the status was important, we should not dismember all the players in the industry, as you did. It was enough to relax the modalities and reform the status, without removing their competence from the regions or dismembering the actors of learning, and above all without taking learning away from the territories, which is unfortunately the meaning of the deconstruction that you have undertaken to propose a new answer to the question of learning. Despite these reservations, we look favourably at the device you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u300	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u301	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u302	Articles 7 and 8 aim to facilitate access to and simplification of training. In my view, the first thing to simplify is matter. For spending some time at the Ministry of Vocational Training and Apprenticeship, I can testify that I have never met such a complicated subject. Faced with so many acronyms, it is very difficult for someone to understand what they can do, what they are entitled to, what tools they can use to train. The aim is, however, to enable our fellow citizens, in a life course, to train and gain access to employment. For me, employability is not a big word: we can be at the service of our fellow citizens and employable in the public service. Every year, France invests €32 billion in vocational training. There are more than 75,000 training organizations in our country that reported an activity in 2016. In our societies that go faster and faster, we like to designate things by acronyms at the risk of losing its Latin. These are legion in vocational training: OPCA – recognised joint collecting body –, OCTA – body collecting the apprenticeship tax –, FPSPP – joint fund for securing career paths –, ANI – national interprofessional agreement –, COPANEF – national joint interprofessional council for employment and training –... Matter is unreadable. As Robert Sabatier said, saving time is never another way to lose time. I agree with you, Madam Minister, in your desire to simplify, but let us simplify the subject of vocational training, because it is in great need of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u303	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage in our debates, I would like to share with you a question. A year ago, we were all elected by majority vote in constituencies, that is, in territories. For a year – in my case, for six years – we have been in contact with realities, mayors, departmental or regional councillors, and actors on the ground. This contact leads us all to believe that we need, in terms of vocational training and learning, that the governance of the system is very linked to the field. I am therefore surprised that the Government has excluded regional councils from the governance of apprenticeship and vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u305	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u306	The regional councils are composed of elected representatives, of course proportional, but mayors, presidents of communities of communes, in short, actors living in the territory. But, Madam Minister, I really have the feeling that an extremely technocratic reform has been conceived in the house of rue de Grenelle, which is deeply in line with the logic of Emmanuel Macron's power for the past year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u307	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u308	This reform is proceeding with a recentralisation, so that the Parisian or metropolitan technocracy can define major global patterns by forgetting the realities of the field. At this stage of our discussions, I say it with strength and, I believe, conviction: we need a system of vocational training and learning rooted in the realities of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u309	And simpler!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u310	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, NG and GDR groups. – Mr. Francis Vercamer also applauds]] It is totally absurd that regional councils should thus be excluded from the governance of apprenticeship and vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u311	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u312	I did not imagine that Mr Larrivé could be offended by the fact that the training system was liberalised to make it more accessible to the actors of the regions, in particular to the first players, namely the companies and branches located in the regions. [["The president is not him! » on the benches of the LR group]] Our colleague here is the spokesman of the President of the Regions of France, Xavier Bertrand, pardon, Hervé Morin. My lapsus is quite revealing of the line of the regions on the subject. These have not always been exemplary. I could add to this Renaud Muselier scheme, which provides a lot of advice on learning without achieving the expected results! I am telling you this from a region that has made a considerable effort in this area. This is the Poitou-Charentes region – the former Poitou-Charentes region (Exclamations on the banks of the LR group) – which had established apprenticeship training centres everywhere and which are now being invited to follow a new model. On this subject, I would remind you that the abolition of authorisation, which brings about liberalisation, is accompanied by equalisation between the regions. The state is therefore not the great present, but the one that organizes the logic so that every actor on the ground seizes the model that we build.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u313	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u314	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u315	Our group is not opposed to learning reform. We are benevolent about the fact that the text integrates branches, social partners and businesses into the scheme. It is important that they can give their opinion both for the young person, who will be supervised by employers, and for the learning which, in France – unlike what happens in other countries – gives the impression of trampling. Nevertheless, we are sorry that, in order to bring the branches into the text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u316	...you're getting the regions out of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u317	Exactly! We would have preferred a mixed system in which the regions could coordinate learning in their territory, adapt it to its reality, to its specific professional characteristics. I said this at the beginning of our debate: it is on the territories that the handkerchiefs of Cholet or the lace of Calais are made. It was therefore important for those territories to be involved, and the regions, whose powers included economic development, had an important role to play in that regard. Another problem is that learning is limited – President Mélenchon said yesterday – especially by the number of learning teachers. They, in a number of TPEs, find it difficult to take apprentices either because of lack of time or lack of will. However, it is not by increasing the constraints that learning will be freed up. Given that the post deposit is more in the TPEs than in the larger companies, it would be better to free the role of these masters, who are themselves entrepreneurs, than to make it more complex, as the text does. I hope, Madam Minister, that you will be attentive to the amendments that we will table on the following articles, particularly on Article 7, and that you will give a favourable opinion on them, because learning is a real lever for youth employment. Today, if young people need employment and listening, businesses need the means to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u318	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u319	It's amazing! Yesterday, we were told that the CFAs were all wind up and Mr. Maillard told us that the regional presidents had written to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u320	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u321	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] Today, we're talking about elected officials. It's the land that's talking! If every time you are told that people or the CFAs are not happy, that the regions are the first level and that the elected representatives play an important role in setting up proximity actions, because they know the ground well and that everything centralizing is certainly not a solution... Well, that's it! At some point, the land will remember who it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u322	He did it not so long ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u323	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u324	Much has been said about how the proposed reform undermines the rooting of learning in the realities of the field. Without a review, impact assessment or evaluation, it removes regions and the work they have been able to do. To replace this system, it will put the CFAs in competition through rules which have been shown to eliminate certain sectors and certain CFAs. The branches are not established in the same way in all territories. In short, the text raises objections that need to be addressed. Moreover, the article marks an unprecedented regression in the very conception of learning. Yesterday, I heard the President of the Republic criticise the company for the statutes. The problem is that speaking in this way amounts to tackling the law. However, I am very attached to the defence of a society governed by law, which you are detangling by the proposals that you put on the table. This text understands learning as contributing to vocational integration. You hear him disconnecting from initial training and suggest that this would be the only way to access employment for some young people. Here you show a conception to the least narrow of learning. You lock him in a utilitarian and short-term vision, at the service of the immediate needs of companies, ensuring that he is in line with them. We have discussed it a lot in committee, so that we can finally put an offer in front of a request. So you make an ideological choice, subcontracting the educational function to companies. This concept of learning is, in our view, extremely dangerous. You refer to the German model to justify it, but in Germany, the time spent by the apprentice in the training centre represents 20% of his overall time, compared to 45% in France. Apprenticeship must remain in school status, within the framework of a strong educational ambition, and aim at a high level of training, for all and for all, and must give access to a general culture, a quality professional culture, which will provide a guarantee of long-term development for all young people in training. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and NG groups]] Beyond what has been said about the need to work on in-company learning, on the teachers of learning, it is, in our view, necessary to maintain the educational will, the vocation of initial training of learning. Now, with your text, we are moving away from it. For us, learning must offer, as well as other ways, opportunities to continue their studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u325	Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u326	Yesterday, one of our colleagues on the left side of the House used the term "firefighters". This idea can be found this morning on the opposite benches, with the mention of the closure of 700 CFA, a figure which Regions of France has widely disseminated to the establishments. Of course it creates anxiety! His president, Hervé Morin, to whom, as you may know, binds me a deep friendship, was kind enough to address me the letter to which you referred. I'm holding it at your disposal. By claiming that 700 of the existing 950 CFAs are to be closed, you obviously create a feeling of fear on the ground, since the regions contribute in the first place to the functioning of the CFAs. In the new organization we are proposing, the regions are called upon to play a very important role. First, they will be part of France's competences, which we have already talked about and which we will examine in more detail afterwards. They will also be in charge of the essential subject of orientation. It will be up to them to take advantage of this assignment. They will also have the opportunity to accompany the CFAs and the sectors in the planning of the territory – this is a request that we have heard. The example of wood gilding in the Vosges, which has very few staff, has been cited several times. It is important that the regions can continue to help this type of training, the know-how that we do not want to lose, and they will, of course, continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u327	It's not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u328	It's financially insured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u329	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u330	We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. Our colleagues at La France insoumée explained to us that they were against learning, which has the merit of clarity. You have the right to be opposed to learning, but you have to take it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] France has 400,000 apprentices. The dynamics in this area concern the higher levels; At levels IV and V, the number of apprentices tends to decline. That's the reality of the numbers. However, it is the regions that are in the process of manoeuvring. We do not accuse them, we simply say that it does not work the way it should work, that we do not have the path of excellence to which we could claim. Like many of you, we went to see foreign systems. You have seen that in Europe this works when branches and companies pilot learning. That's how, there's no magic recipe. Let us apply what works in our neighbours while taking into account our specificities. Let's put leadership in the hands of branches and businesses, where learning and jobs are created.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u331	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u332	Contrary to what can be heard, you are undoubtedly moving decision-making away from the ground. Mr Maillard, you mention the 400,000 apprentices trained in the CFA and compare our system with that of Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u333	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u334	We are well aware of the situation in Germany, but there is a very great difference between our two countries. In France, apprenticeship training centres coexist with vocational lycées.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u335	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u336	Training of the same nature is provided in a school setting, in particular for professional baccalaureates and certificates of professional fitness – CAP. You seem to completely deny this reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u337	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u338	The total number of young people in vocational schools and CFA is equivalent to the number of young Germans in the same situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u339	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u340	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] You mentioned the 700 CFAs that will close, but you will also weaken professional high schools. You hide the fact that with your device, it is the whole system of initial vocational training that you will weaken.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u341	It's not good to be scared!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u342	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u343	I have just taken our colleague Sylvain Maillard in flagrante defiance de fake news – even if the law punishing this offence is not yet passed. No, dear Sylvain Maillard, let it be heard once and for all, France is not against learning. You said it twice, so I'm going to repeat it, to make sure you've been heard: no, France is not against learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u344	Your colleague said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u345	I'm all the more comfortable talking about it since I was an apprentice,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u346	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u347	... unlike many of those I've heard a lot about learning, who know little about it, who have not been trained there as well as any of their family members, and who would certainly not send their own kids there. The job I was employed before being elected was a direct result of my apprenticeship. So I know what I'm talking about. Not only are we not against learning, but we know the subject particularly well. What is certain, however, is that we have different visions, but we can discuss them without necessarily saying "for" or "against". You want the training of apprentices to be closer to companies, to match their needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u348	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u349	You say that the regulation of the work of apprentices must be relaxed in order to potentially facilitate hiring. In this respect, it would be interesting to determine what proportion of apprentices were actually hired by the company in which they were trained. In my promotion of thirty-five apprentices, we were barely five to be hired by the company in which, for two years, we alternated a week at work and a week on the CFA benches. You must take this reality into account. Moreover, the company does not always invest in the same way. No, the apprentice is not an employee; He's a young man in training. Many companies wrongly view apprentices as employees, sometimes servile, who perceive them as easy labour. In addition to this – it does not corroborate your remarks, on the contrary – companies play the game of learning tremendously. I have benefited from this, together with teachers, managers, supervisors, who go so far as to peel the notes and appreciations of the teachers, who receive the teachers in the company's offices. To that, I say yes, a thousand times yes, but not to an apprenticeship at the service of the company's wishes. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR and NG]] For us, I grant you, learning is probably less to develop than vocational education. The training of young people must be part of a national framework. In some respects, however, your text, by putting all the powers in the hands of a branch, may lead to some form of house arrest in the company's own competences. Once again, you will understand, if we do not design learning in the same way, we are not opposed to it. We say that we must surround it with many safeguards and, in particular, give the means to the teachers of learning, to the tutors to really invest. Young apprentices are not employees but young people in training. That is an essential point. Before you make the questions and answers, try to find out, next time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u350	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u351	This debate on learning is very interesting. I would like to say to the majority that we are extremely supportive of the development of learning, but we have some concerns about this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This text should be an opportunity to value the work of the hand, to give back their letters of nobility to all the professional sectors, the technological sectors, which are currently suffering in our country. An apprentice can be trained at level V, then pass a professional baccalaureate and reach the level of engineer. This is extremely satisfying and supports us in the idea that it is essential to develop learning. However, we are concerned about the risk of two-speed training tomorrow. For the highly sought-after trades, the trades will not create any problems. It may not be the same for rarer occupations, such as craftsmanship and attracting much fewer apprentices. However, they will also need training, which is also a cost. We must therefore make sure that no one is forgotten in this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u352	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u353	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u354	Mr Quatennens, we fully agree with your observation. Learning is undoubtedly a path to success, and we want to develop it. But we do not agree on how to finance it. When the regions managed learning, the funds were not allocated as a whole to the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u355	This is not true for all regions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u356	This is why we decided that the professional branches would finance apprenticeship. We believe that, in this way, the money will be spent exclusively on him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u357	What guarantees do you have?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u358	For helping my students, in Argenteuil, to reorient themselves, I confirm that apprenticeship hires, but not only five students on promotions of thirty-five. Companies cannot hire all their apprentices, but they train them excellently; seven out of ten, after six months, find a job.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u359	So it works!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u360	We are not five out of thirty-five, but rather seven out of ten, even if they are not quite the same companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, we no longer want to oppose the CFAs to professional lycées. The articles we are going to examine will strengthen partnerships, the links between national education and the business world, by creating the "pre-trades", the UFA – apprenticeship training units –, the CFA agreements with the vocational high schools. All of this goes in the same direction. Our only point of disagreement is the method of financing, because we are convinced that, thanks to our reform, the money for learning will go to learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u361	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u362	I would remind you that our group is very much in favour of learning, with two points in mind. First, regarding national education, we need a paradigm shift. Our colleague Maillard said that the number of apprentices was lower at levels IV and V. This makes sense because apprentices taking these courses are often much younger, and national education tends to encourage the continuation of long-term studies rather than directing young people towards learning, even if they would like to. Secondly, vocational training needs to be in real agreement with the areas of life and employment. Decision-makers should therefore not be completely disconnected from the realities of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u363	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u364	We are entering the heart of the subject of learning. If you had wanted to improve vocational education and learning, you would have had to start by looking at national education – I fully agree with what my colleague has just said – to get out of the stupid goal of having 80% of a bachelor's generation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u365	We don't have the same vision of things!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u366	... and focus resources on professional high schools, before making a reform of the lower secondary school penalizing the most modest. Then we are concerned about the threat of 700 CFAs. You will have to provide us with guarantees on the maintenance of the CFAs in all the territories, because there are high labour requirements for certain functions, particularly in the craft sector. They must not be handed over to the law of supply and demand, and a policy must be developed to ensure territorial equity and training adapted to the needs of the territories throughout France. This fundamental point will be an object of mistrust or even mistrust for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u367	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u368	If we want to know the real reasons why there is still a shortage of candidates for learning, we need to understand the two aspects of the problem. Yes, we all agree on this point, we must allow our companies to participate more in this way to train and hear their difficulties to have teachers up to the task and available. But we must also understand why young people are not attracted by learning. Difficult working conditions in some firms do not encourage them to enter or, at least, remain there. Wages need to be re-evaluated in many occupations, and working conditions improved. The image of many trades suffers from a dwindling gaze of society, this has been said several times. This is the way we look at learning that needs to evolve. We have also said several times that our system is based on two pillars: initial vocational education and apprenticeship. Both are linked to companies, as professional high schools have not waited for today's debate to understand the need to work with them. I really call on you to be careful about this, because young people in training must have a choice. For some, learning can be a solution, but not for others. Since the vocational school is a school of the Republic which welcomes all pupils, it must be given all the means necessary to accomplish a mission which it is already carrying out very well. Many professional high schools produce excellence: go to the field and you will see it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u369	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u370	This debate is becoming more and more interesting, and the terms "trust", "hope", "worry", "insufficiency" and "demand for guarantees" are widely understood. The various oppositions sometimes denounce the lack of ambition of this bill, or the stale table of the existing one. I see a certain contradiction. Beyond this, alternative proposals and projects could have been expected, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u371	You didn't listen to me, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u372	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It must be noted that some look in the mirror and we look into the future. Today, the World Cup begins, and if we were to play this game, your strategy would be to put all players in defense, when we are all in attack to win the learning game.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u373	By buying the referee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u374	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u375	Madam Minister, now that we are talking about the transfer of learning to the economic branches, it is important to mention the overseas regions. You promised us an order to adapt this legislation, but learning is the point of this bill that cannot be adapted at home. I come from a region that has invested a lot in vocational training. Guadeloupe has used the possibilities provided by law to apply for authorization in the context of vocational training. We have created an organization, Guadeloupe Training, which manages vocational training. Some regions have been able to invest outside the transfer of skills and in their own funds in order to establish an effective training system. I don't know how many training centres will be closed here, but, at home, it'll be more than half...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u376	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u377	... because we do not have structured economic branches. Only the region can maintain learning. At the general level, you intend to reform apprenticeship, not by giving the CFA more resources and by developing the offer and support, but by bringing the legal regime applicable to apprentices closer to the common system. But as some of my colleagues have said, the apprentice is not an employee, and it is important that the apprenticeship contract is not, in the long run, a professionalization contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u378	Ladies and gentlemen, we still have 1479 amendments to consider, and over a scheduled time of 30 hours, the groups have consumed only 10 of them at this stage. If you wish to conclude our work at the last sitting on Friday evening, as the Conference of Presidents has indicated, it may be necessary, at the end of this rich discussion on Article 7, to speed up the movement when considering the amendments. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u379	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] First of all, I would like to thank the various speakers, whose comments make it possible to raise the general debate. What's the subject? We have only 1.3 million young people in France who are neither in training nor in employment. Since 2000, the figure of 450,000 apprentices has not been exceeded; We have 700000 young people in vocational high school, but there are still 1.3 million young people who are nowhere. Among the richest countries in Europe, France has one of the highest unemployment rates. The regions have been piloting this policy for more than 20 years, and everything is fine! [[Applause on the same benches]] We will discuss all the proposals and we will not all agree on the solutions; Can we at least share the diagnosis? We cannot leave it to the status quo, otherwise we will not serve young people and businesses. This is the main point in my eyes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] How is consultation developed? Sylvie Brunet, president of the Section for Labour and Employment of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC – coordinated the consultation with the social partners, the regions and many practitioners on the ground for three months. Many people here know what learning is. For my part, for twenty-five years, I consider learning to be one of the most important things, as it is essential for the future of young people. In my private and public functions, I have created several CFAs and contributed to the development of this whole sector, like many of you on these benches. For God's sake, let's avoid legal proceedings! That wouldn't be worthy. In addition to the consultation, I have visited some 20 CFAs since the beginning of the year to verify the assumptions. We have established working groups with centres, practitioners, branches, businesses and young people. So, here too, let us not instruct a trial on the method, but discuss the solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Why did I mention a Copernician revolution? To avoid the belief that the solution lies in defending the interests of the institutions that have a responsibility today, instead of promoting the mobilization of all, each one in his or her role. What is important in this reform is the young man, the company and the CFA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u380	What about the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u381	Because it is the young person, the master of learning and the trainer who make, or not, success. This is where the conditions for success are created, as Mr Mélenchon showed very well yesterday. Everything else – industries, businesses, regions, the state and guidance services – must be at their service to make this alchemy a success. I listened to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u382	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] That's the least I can do, ma'am.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u383	Indeed, but the reciprocal is also true. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] What is learning? This is another educational path, which pursues the same objective of success. We can prepare the same diplomas in France, at least a large part of them, which is an originality of our country, through school, vocational education, or through apprenticeship. It's a wealth! Not all young people are the same and do not have the same maturity at the same time. Instead of opposing these two forms of education in order to gain access to vocational training, we should make this coexistence an asset. Learning is about learning, starting from practice in a rather deductive vision, whereas vocational education is more of a theory before studying its application. There is no better way to learn; the best is the one that suits the young person and makes him succeed. In both cases, companies are needed, but taking a trainee is not the same as taking responsibility for training an apprentice. In the second case, the commitment is much stronger for the company and the learning master. Why does the status quo not work from the point of view of decentralization? Some regions are very engaged in this area, and great things are happening there. But reality obliges me to tell you that not all regions invest so much – it is their freedom, enshrined in the Constitution, and I respect it. Nevertheless, the future of young people is our collective responsibility, and it is in the light of this requirement that we assess the effectiveness of the existing one. As has been pointed out, the qualitative results are rather good, although improvements are desirable, since seven out of ten young people are in sustainable employment seven months after their graduation. However, the number of apprentices has not increased, or very little, for twenty years, and it would have declined if we had not significantly increased apprenticeships in higher education – among the 420,000 apprentices, 150,000 are in higher education. I'm not saying that we don't need apprentices in higher education – I've created courses there and I think that's great – but young people who are nowhere have a bachelor's level minus four, in the best case, than baccalaureate plus four. It is essential to develop levels V and IV of diplomas in order to give hope to young people. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The regions face two problems. They can do nothing against the first, which concerns the rules of financing. They must allocate funding to each CFA in an estimated budget, so that the centre knows its balance grant and cannot exceed it without an amending budget. However, the region cannot make an amending budget as soon as a company or young person wants to sign a contract. The system is thus Malthusian, which is not the fault of the regions. This is why there is a need for a great deal of equalization and, above all, for the funding of each apprenticeship contract to be secured. The bill promises to change the system in this direction. As for the regions, one in two does not use all the money it collects under the apprenticeship tax for the benefit of learning. If there was only one, but it's one in two! We can't pretend that everyone is mobilizing for learning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u384	That's because our regions are too big!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u385	They exercise this competence but decide to invest differently. It's their right, but if one in two doesn't use all the money she collects under the apprenticeship tax – 51% of her product – it's because learning isn't one of their priorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u386	They don't know their territory anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u387	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This finding has remained unchanged for the past 20 years and has not improved in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u388	Sad reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u389	Sad reality, indeed! There is another disadvantage in the exclusive management of regional funding for learning: inequality between territories, which affects young people, businesses and the CFA. Is it normal for a CFA, in a given region, for a cooking CAP, to receive €2,500 a year from the region? How can we provide quality training for a young person with €2,500 for a whole year? I don't know! Another region pays €14,000 for the same CAP, supervised by professionals who are also competent in the chambers of trades. The system is unequal on the territory. It does not follow that it is necessary to centralize it – we will not centralize anything – but that it must be regulated differently. To entrust its administration exclusively to the regional public authorities is insufficient. [[Riressur several benches of the LaREM group]] Tomorrow we'll need everyone's help. In the European countries that have managed to develop learning – let me tell you, it is only common sense – how strange it is, companies are involved! That's very surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u390	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u391	There's work to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u392	What if such a professional branch is absent from the department?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u393	For my part, I do not know how one can succeed in learning without the companies being mobilized, which means that they occupy not a rear seat of the car, but its cockpit. This means that the bill gives branches power not taken from the regions but from the state. At present, only the State decides on the professional content of diplomas. In 2018, the Ministries of National Education and Labour consulted the social partners and professionals, but ultimately decided on the professional content of the diplomas. How does the bill remove power from the regions, if they have never had it or even claimed it? We plan to co-build the diplomas, so that it is up to the professionals to determine their professional part, indicating the needs of their respective professions for tomorrow and the day after. They need to be more involved. Moreover, if you listen to the representatives of the companies – as is the case with some of you – what do they say? That learning has moved away from business. In fact, all apprenticeship training centres in enterprises and territories have been abolished. This is an administered domain, so a little distant: "Is there a place in CFA? It is not certain, only if there is money". Many companies have disinvested in learning, as they no longer feel involved in learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u394	That's not the only reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u395	Our reform project provides for the mobilization of all actors. This is not a reform directed against the regions or in favour of the branches – this is not the subject. This is a reform for young people and businesses. This means that everyone has to play their part. Who has to do what? The region has four main roles to play in reform. The first is based on guidance competence, which is already a regional competence. We're strengthening him. We all agree on the need for better guidance. The Minister of National Education, Jean-Michel Blanquer, has already begun.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u396	By abolishing the IOC?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u397	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] Do you know that the principals of the colleges, so far, are strictly evaluated on the orientation of young people? If they send them to general education, they are well-rated; in technological education, they are averaged; to vocational education, not well rated; and in apprenticeship, very poorly rated! That's deleted! The reform begins with that! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On the other hand, we place all sectors on an equal footing. None is better than another. The best is the one that makes the young person succeed – it's the only truth! [[Same movements]] On this subject, I would like to recall one very important point: at present we live in two separate worlds, that of school status and that of learning. In fact, ideologically, in history, they have opposed each other. I am pleased to see that we have gone beyond this divide on all the benches of the House, which I welcome, because it is a great step forward! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] This is why the reform of vocational education announced by my colleague Jean-Michel Blanquer will promote bridges between school status and apprenticeship status. Perhaps a young person will begin his training in school status and complete it in apprenticeship! Perhaps he will complete his apprenticeship with a diploma of academic or student status! So, whenever he wants it and succeeds?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u398	We agree, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u399	It's very good, but it's not in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u400	If it's in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u401	All this is part of our project, which is to open the field of possibilities. The role of the regions in guidance is essential. We need to help colleges and high schools, all of which will open their doors – Jean-Michel Blanquer will have the opportunity to say so – so that young people can meet professionals, discover trades, meet a young apprentice or a tutor, someone whose eyes shine so much he sees an exciting job, someone who has set up his business – I recall that a quarter of apprentices one day set up their business. All this is human encounter! We can't reduce the orientation to cards! It also requires human encounter. On this point, the regions will play a strengthened role and will work with all colleges and high schools, so that young people can meet with professionals. At present, inequality is the rule. Young people who want to meet an apprentice will or will not be able to do so according to their parents' network. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u402	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u403	Any young person wishing to do so must have access to learning and, of course, it must no longer be a default orientation. The second role of the regions was mentioned earlier, in particular by Mr Aviragnet. It seems to me that we agree. As far as learning is concerned, it is obviously necessary for the branches and regions to talk to each other, because this is at the crossroads of both! All the successful European countries have mobilized the branches and the companies, but they did not, like us, have professional high schools. We have therefore included in the bill contracts for objectives and means to be signed by companies, branches and regions. In addition, they may, if they so wish, draw up non-prescriptive regional schemes with the branches.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u404	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u405	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the case of investment jurisdiction, it is assigned by law to the regions, which will retain it. However, I would like to solemnly say that the few regions that dare to say that they cut investment for lack of money lie and serve young people and businesses alike, which is scandalous! It is important that the regions retain this competence, because they already exercise the investment competence in high schools, thanks to which many regions have created common technical platforms and campuses – which we will encourage, because that is a good thing. In addition, EUR 250 million will be allocated to the regions so that they can complement their land-use planning policy. Thus, in addition to the contract cost, which will guarantee 90% of the financing, they will be able to travel the last kilometre, in a way, to open a rural CFA. Of course, the propaganda that 700 CFAs would be threatened with closure has neither tail nor head, as we will prove with field missions. Finally, I stress that we will succeed if everyone is in their role, if regions, branches, businesses, the social partners, the State – in particular the Ministry of National Education – all play their part. What gives me confidence today is, for example, the words made yesterday by a regional president, that of the Hauts-de-Frances, Xavier Bertrand: "You all know that a law will be passed, which will entrust the steering of learning no longer to the regions but to the world of business and the professional branches" – it was before 400 people gathered for the general states of learning. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] "Usually, an elected man, when he is taken away from his skills, is the first one to grumble. [...] Why don't I grumble? Because I think the new system can be more effective. [...] Starting from the needs of businesses and giving responsibility to businesses, [it] can allow us to have more young people in learning, thus fewer unemployed young people, and to have more businesses that succeed in providing jobs." It's a regional president who says so! Last week, industrialists on the National Industry Council indicated that the reform will allow them to create 40,000 apprentice places. The construction sector is moving in this direction. The Permanent Assembly of Chambers of Trades has announced the creation of an additional 600,000 apprenticeship places. The Companions of Duty plan to double their settlement in the territory and the Rural Family Houses to develop. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups, of which several Members rise, and MODEM]] If you don't believe the actors on the ground, don't vote on clause 7, if you don't, you have to support the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u406	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-14-O1271.u407	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bill on freedom to choose your professional future. The meeting is adjourned.
