ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u1	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u2	Mr David Lorion has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u3	Mr. Minister of Territorial Cohesion, the President of the Republic proudly announced last August that there would be a supply shock, particularly in the real estate and housing sector. We have had the shock, but it has mainly reduced the construction of new housing and social housing. Unfortunately, the numbers are not good. They have not been so for the last six months: with a decrease of 8.2 per cent, the construction of collective housing has decreased by 5.6 per cent and, for 2017, there are expected to be between 8 per cent and 10 per cent fewer sales.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u5	Why are there so many fears, especially about housing construction? First of all, social housing operators: if you take 2 billion euros in their pocket, they will obviously not invest much until 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u6	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u7	Then you have to want to own it. When you have the means and feel that you are a target for the Government, believe me, you are not going to invest much because you are promised to tax your property or increase the costs of inheritance. But the worst part is when you're a helpless family and you want to become a homeowner. At that time, you are being deprived of the only possibility you have: the social acquisition of property that you have removed in a large part of metropolitan and overseas territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u8	Yes! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u9	So, minister, you're probably going to tell me that the so-called ELAN law – changing housing, design and digital – will erase all of this...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Lorion. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u11	Mr President, what is the situation? Today, in France, almost as many housing units are being built as in the early 1980s. However, we have 12 million more French, more and more families divorce, and the pressure on housing is therefore incredibly strong. As we speak, almost 1.8 million households are waiting for social housing. So, what do we do? We're staying with our arms crossed, waiting for this to happen? It would be very bad to know us. What are we going to do, in concrete terms? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] First, yes, we are going to transform social housing. Yes, we're going to allow people and social donors to regroup. Yes, we will allow them to have more financing with 10 billion euros brought by the Caisse des dépôts. Yes, we will create more mobility in social housing through the revision of family situations on the basis of proposals every six years to ensure that housing is well adapted. Yes, we're going to rewrite the building and housing code – I'm going to give it to you, it's harder, we're going out of the simplification that you've undertaken, we're going to rewrite the building code completely to rip one page out of five! Yes, we are going to take steps that no one has ever taken on the benches of this assembly to combat abusive remedies! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] At the same time, we are going to bring solutions to protect the weakest, we are going to fight tirelessly against the sleep merchants – I welcome all the work done, for example, with the MP Little – or will fight against the unworthy habitat, especially in the ultramarine territories, we are going to revitalize the city centers – in Réunion there are four of these medium-sized cities that have been the poor parents of your policy (Protests on the benches of the LR and NG groups) – that will receive 5 billion during this quinquennium. So yes, honourable Member, and this is perhaps our difference, we will tackle the root of the problems in order to bring solutions to the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u12	Talk to Mr. Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u13	The next speaker is Mrs Monique Iborra, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u14	The crisis in residential institutions for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – revealed in the summer of 2017, has highlighted the shortcomings of the policy of older people in recent years, which has focused mainly on the issue of financing, without any of the fundamental choices being decided, although many reports have mentioned the subject. Our model of caring for elderly people who are losing their autonomy is out of date. On the one hand, it no longer meets the expectations of our fellow citizens and, on the other hand, it despairs of staff who are very invested but too few and who are subject to particularly difficult working conditions. This raises many questions and concerns, maintained by a vision of our society that is not very rewarding for those who are growing in age, yet the number is expected to increase. Beyond the demographic and financial challenges, which are very important, there is a real societal and human challenge ahead of us. It concerns all citizens and, of course, the political sphere as a whole, which cannot avoid debate or be content with measures with limited effects, such as those taken in recent years. This government, particularly the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Mrs Agnès Buzyn, quickly took stock of the problems that arise, as early as September 2017, after the flash mission entrusted to me by the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u15	It's inconsistent with the beginning of your question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u16	In addition, as early as December, we voted on a number of measures in the Social Security Financing Act to respond urgently to the situation that this majority has observed. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Today, the Government wants to go further on this issue, together with the Government as a whole, in order to deal not with symptoms but with the effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u17	The Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, spokesman for the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u18	Mrs. Iborra, I beg you to excuse Agnès Buzyn, who is currently in the Senate. Four generations will live together, it is a first in the history of humanity. It is therefore necessary to rethink our social model and, within it, the care of ageing, in order to best meet the needs of the elderly but also those of their families. It is a model that must not only be healthy but must also ensure the best possible quality of life for our seniors and their full inclusion in society. The main challenge is to know what our priorities are and how we can secure their funding, fair and inclusive funding. We are not leaving anything since there are many reports on the subject. But reports and technical measures, as you know, are not enough. I agree with you when you say that the EHPAD model needs to evolve, but the same applies to the home service model. You have to think about the two subjects at the same time, around the elderly person, but also about the caregivers who are family members. That is why the Minister of Solidarity and Health is presenting this very afternoon a road map on the issue of elderly people and autonomy. This is a comprehensive roadmap, which presents immediate measures while mapping out longer-term prospects. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Immediate measures include strengthening the medicalization of EHPADs, including at night, with the generalization of night nurses. Several measures are also aimed at promoting the prevention of loss of autonomy. These measures are in addition to the already announced decision to neutralize the negative effects of the tariff reform for EHPADs. The Government will also pursue two other cross-cutting priorities: better support for caregivers; better training, recruitment and retention of professionals who work with older people every day. As you can see, honourable Member, the Government is extremely determined to act on this issue, which is of major importance to millions of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u19	With what means?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u20	Mr Thierry Benoit, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u21	Minister for Agriculture and Food, the Government has been installed for a year now. There you have the noble mission of leading French agriculture. It therefore seems important that you explain to us your vision of the future of French agriculture and its role in Europe and the world, on the one hand, and that you outline the horizon and the precise objectives that you assign to the agricultural profession, on the other. In a European context of discussion of the new common agricultural policy, while the National Assembly is about to express itself on your draft law in favour of rebalancing trade relations in the agricultural sector, the challenges are of several kinds: the food sovereignty of France, a highly strategic issue; the renewal of generations in agriculture, thanks to a profession that must ensure a dignified income, because every penalty deserves a salary; harmonious planning of the territory; Finally, the necessary protection of biodiversity. France, in Europe, remains one of the main agricultural countries and must remain so! Its export function must be reaffirmed! I would therefore like to know your roadmap for French agriculture, in particular the combination of national policy issues with European and international policy issues. For example, a few months ago, the President of the Republic announced a €5 billion investment plan for agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u22	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] What is your strategy, Minister, to implement this plan? What is your vision for the future of French agriculture?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u25	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u26	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups as well as on several benches of the MODEM and LR groups]] Mr Benoit, first of all, I want to thank you and your entire group for your mobilization during these eight days of debate in the National Assembly. I want to tell you, as I have already had the opportunity to do during the review of the bill – in which we have considered more than 2600 amendments – that it is not all about the law. As I have said on several occasions, we have opened many projects in the field of agriculture: the major investment plan, which you have mentioned; the great organic ambition programme; a reflection on agricultural land: workshops conducted with Bruno Le Maire on agricultural taxation. We have opened these yards to meet the needs of our farmers, particularly with regard to taxation on precautionary savings, as you know. The bill that we have been considering over the past eight days, coming from the general states of food, aims at rebalancing the balance of power between the various links in the food chain, from producer to consumer. To do this, we reversed the logic of price construction, revised the SRP – the threshold of resale at a loss –, framed the promotions, strengthened the role of producer organisations, interprofessionals and the mediator. We must also guarantee to all our citizens a safe, healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, by "boosting" the local supply and organic products in collective restoration, by fighting food waste and by giving us the real means of reducing plant protection products in agriculture. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] This law is the result of a long work, which we have done here in the Chamber, and your political group has brought to it a very important stone, particularly with regard to the fight against the concentration of purchasing power plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u28	Mrs Carole Grandjean, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u29	My question is for Nathalie Loiseau, Minister for European Affairs. Yesterday, the European Parliament finally adopted the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive with 70% of votes in favour. This Europe Agreement is a victory after more than two years of negotiations with our partners. I would like to commend the work of the French MEP and co-rapporteur of the text, Mrs Élisabeth Morin-Chartier. This vote devotes major advances: the establishment of wage rules for equal pay work, the limitation of the duration of secondment to 12 months, the strengthening of the fight against fraud, the clarification of administrative procedures. These rules guarantee equivalent working conditions and rights for all workers in the same country. Ladies and gentlemen, we were leaving a long way: the 1996 directive was no longer adapted, because it was built on a European mobility that accelerated in 20 years. Not less than 16 million Europeans work in another EU country than theirs today, of which more than 510,000 posted workers, and 130,000 French are posted workers in Europe. In ten years, the number of posted workers has increased ninefold in Europe. In France, seconded work sometimes responds to recruitment needs for sectors that are in short supply – BTP, agricultural or wine crops. We are currently examining in the Committee on Social Affairs the draft law on the freedom to choose one's professional future: Title III has national measures to better regulate the fraud of secondment and fight against it. We want to put an end to certain irregularities. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Minister, how can we in the European Union better protect workers and fight fraud?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u30	The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u31	Madam Member, yesterday I was in the European Parliament where success was at hand, since the European Parliament voted by a majority of 70% of Members in favour of the reform of the posted workers' system. This is a success first of all in terms of the timetable, since in one year we put the terms of the negotiations down, which we thought were insufficient, and we managed to convince the European Council and the European Parliament alike. It is a success in terms of method. The President of the Republic has personally been very involved, as has the Government, in particular Ms. Pénicaud. You are right to pay tribute to Élisabeth Morin-Chartier, the French co-rapporteur of the project. When Members of the European Parliament are committed to their mission with seriousness and conviction, they have weight! What is more, we have managed to convince far beyond the camp of the host countries of posted workers. Many countries of origin have understood that there would only be winners to reform this regime with ambition and draw social Europe upwards. As you said, today we have put into practice the principle of "equal pay for equal work" in the same place of work. We have reduced the duration of secondment to 12 months and the transposition will take two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u32	What about social security contributions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u33	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] So we got everything we wanted. But we need to go further. Citizens' consultations show that the French expect progress from social Europe. We are thus in favour of establishing a European labour authority to combat fraud effectively, and we have made numerous agreements with the countries of origin of posted workers to combat these frauds, thus demonstrating what we deeply believe in: a Europe that protects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u34	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u35	Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, you come back from a four-day trip to Corsica, which I hope will not be the last. I regret that you were unable to visit the constituency of which I am the elected one and its central city, Ajaccio, the regional capital, where I would have welcomed you to discuss waste management, even if this competence falls to the community of Corsica, we know. Indeed, it would have been an enriching experience for you in view of the commitment of the Ajaccio country in the search for an effective and lasting technical solution to the iterative crises of waste that affects our territory, this problem which concerns all regions, more acute in our case because of the insularity and the absence of choices that persists... Indeed, since 2015, when I was president of the community of agglomeration, nothing has progressed. The project of a sorting and valorisation unit that we were carrying out, in accordance with the law on the energy transition for the green growth dear to your predecessor, Mrs Royal, a project to serve one third of the island's population, allowing to reduce by at least 50% the share of landfilling, this project is still in the stage of the assistance with the control of the project, even though it could have been operational by 2019. The next crisis is coming in July, in the absence of a short-term solution given the urgency, namely the saturation and the forthcoming closure of the two landfills, storage centres, as is said to be modestly. I do not want to export waste to the continent or Sardinia to be incinerated or, worse, buried. It's a non-solution. Yet we are preparing for it. What do you think, Minister, about waste management, a problem that goes far beyond the Island? Knowing that the need to strengthen the selective sorting at source is unanimous, that the solution chosen, whatever the means involved, will take time, money and that there will always be ultimate waste, what do you recommend in the short and medium term: thermolysis and energy recovery, continued landfilling at all crins, or something else? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Are you ready to initiate a meeting of the relevant regional actors, community of Corsica, intercommunities, to define one or more effective technical solutions, likely to be put in place as soon as possible with the assistance and diligence of the State services?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u36	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u37	Mr President, I visited Corsica yesterday and the day before yesterday to take stock of all the issues relating to the ecological and solidarity transition. Of course, we have discussed at length the crucial issue of waste on the island, which is a worrying situation, an unfortunate legacy of many years of inaction. But I'm not looking for those responsible, just like you're going to try to find the solutions. The dialogue with the Territory's elected representatives provided an outline of an exit from the crisis and I entrusted the regional prefect with the task of implementing it. To resolve this crisis, a strong consensus emerged on the absolute priority to be given to selective sorting, where Corsica is, unfortunately, still very late. It is not, as you have mentioned, because the subject does not fall within the competence of the State that we will remain separate and indifferent. I have therefore decided that the State will support inter-communities in the implementation of practical solutions, including through ADEME funding, provided that the results can be measurable and that clear objectives are set. On the other hand, everyone agrees that Corsica, as you have pointed out, is not intended to export its waste to the continent and that it must find long-term solutions to residual waste. Several options are possible and there should be no taboo. I do not want to substitute for the communities to choose the option that suits them best, but without excluding any hypothesis, I do not think it is forbidden to think that the ultimate waste can participate in the energy mix. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In any case, I am convinced that, as was the case with plastic bags, Corsica can finally take on this crucial subject with the help of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u38	The next speaker is Mrs Sylvie Charière, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u39	Minister of National Education, a society that neglects its youth has no future. How can we accept that every year, 100,000 young people leave our school and university system without a diploma, when, as we know, the best guarantee against unemployment remains the diploma? In fact, 48.4% of young people who graduated without a diploma or only with a college certificate are unemployed. And what about the 1.3 million young people, called NEETs – neither in employment nor in education or training – who are neither in training nor in employment? Equally alarming: 34% of young professional bachelors are unemployed seven months after graduation, while, paradoxically, helping economics improve, many companies struggle to find young people. In fact, we are faced with many problems: the way to work, school or apprenticeship, suffers from a degraded image; If certain career paths are attractive, such as the professional management management baccalaureate, they do not insert; Finally, other ways are very "intrusive", such as the trades of the industry, but they do not attract. Given this complexity, we understand that families and teachers are reluctant to choose the career path during the orientation phase. Yet, how great successes have been built thanks to this path! The vocational path, by focusing its pedagogy on doing so to learn, allows many young people to regain a sense of meaning at school. With more than one in four young people unemployed, there is an urgent need to respond. I call for general mobilization! There is an urgent need for all concerned actors, state, branches and regions, to mobilize and coordinate, to update diplomas and organize bridges between high schools and CFAs – apprenticeship training centres – but also companies, so that they take their societal responsibility for training and the transmission of know-how. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Can you explain to us, Minister, the measures you intend to put in place to transform the career path and give it the place it deserves, that of a direction of excellence that will allow our young people to fit in?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u40	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u41	Mrs Charière, thank you for this question, which concerns one of the most important subjects I have to deal with. As soon as I took up my duties, I announced that vocational education would be my second priority, after primary school, for all the reasons you have just set out perfectly. Last Monday, I announced the reform of the career path that we have developed, following the report by Member of Parliament Céline Calvez and Chef Régis Marcon, and after consultation with trade union organizations and the regions. This reform will respond to the challenges you have raised. Firstly, we will encourage the attractiveness, first of all concrete and physical, of vocational education. Thus, each vocational high school will now be part of a national campus and/or thematic network, linked to the branches, or a geographical thematic network, linked to the regions, in order to offer a wide range of opportunities to students. Students will want to go to these campuses, which will be equipped with green spaces, sports facilities and boarding schools. In the same place, there will be the vocational high school, the apprenticeship centre, the business incubator and part of the university. These campuses will crave because they will be places of interaction between different actors related to economic and academic life. Secondly, we will develop diplomas, in a pragmatic way, adapted to the 21st century, taking into account the digital revolution and the challenges of the ecological transition, which transforms or creates trades. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thirdly, we will also develop the pedagogy, taking into account the splendid and sought-after know-how, in French, of our 50,000 professional high school teachers, a know-how that goes from concrete to abstract and is likely to lead to real jobs for our young people, who will thus find a job.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u43	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u44	"After work he always removes his uniform. But then he left, jumped off a bridge in a working suit. It's symbolic, it means: I jump to show that it's my job that killed me but not the rest. These words are from Elodie, Alexander's companion. "My son is a hero," said his father. Alexandre Gonneau, a twenty-seven-year-old Reunion, chose suicide to draw the spotlight on the fate of his fellow workers. Ten days earlier, it was Natacha, a forty-year-old mother who committed suicide. These two ultramarine officials worked at Fleury-Mérogis. In addition to these two suicides, seven inmates also deserve attention. How much more do you need? [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is well known: working conditions are deplorable in France's prisons. Therefore, these suicides should alert you to the need to unlock resources to enable supervisors to work in dignified conditions. The trade unions keep ringing the alarm. In Fleury-Mérogis, 60% of staff come from overseas. Our young people arrive here because of mass unemployment, but disenchantment quickly arrives too quickly. For the prison administration, overseas was a chance, as was slavery before 1848.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u45	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u46	[[Protests on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEMet LR]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] You have to react! Yes, there is an urgent need to respond and put an end to the colonial management of ultramarines in the public service! Every effort must be made to enable young ultramarines to work on their different territories. In February 2018, the prison administration announced the creation of a working group on the ultramarine issue, a forced and forced announcement. What about now?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u48	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u49	Mr Ratenon, first of all, I would like to express my deep compassion and solidarity with the families of those who have experienced such a tragedy. My solidarity and compassion also go to the staff of Fleury-Mérogis, both to their supervisory colleagues and to the management teams, who have experienced these situations very hard. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, on several benches of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] Mr President, we must be very vigilant about the information that is circulating about such painful events and about what is really happening to decisions that are often very complex and very personal. Reading social networks, which sometimes disseminate unverified information, requires, on our part, a minimum of distance and vigilance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u50	I had Alexandre Gonneau's father on the phone yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u51	To answer your question precisely, I would like to point out that we have taken three steps, which I hope will succeed in avoiding this type of tragedy. The first, which will be included in the justice programming bill that I will be defending before you, will be aimed at reducing prison overcrowding, which is, as we all know, one of the factors contributing to the difficulty of exercising prison staff. The second response is the result of the Memorandum of Understanding signed last January with one of the representative trade union organisations, which contains very valuable security measures for surveillance personnel. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The third answer is the establishment last March of a working group on psychosocial risks; It will also help to find solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u52	Mrs Nadia Essayan, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u53	Madam Minister responsible for transport, you will soon have to take a decision on the draft master plan for the Paris-Orléans-Limoges-Toulouse railway line, known as POLT. On behalf of my group and most of my colleagues concerned with this important axis, and in connection with the president of the association Urgence Ligne POLT, Mr Jean-Claude Sandrier, I would like to draw your attention to the major stakes which exist for our territories in this classic line which connects Paris with Toulouse by the centre of France. It is a line that the State had classified in the three lines of equilibrium trains in the structural territory, the third French radial and the longest, which serves almost 20 per cent of the national territory. It is going through far too long neglected territories, which now hope to reinvigorate themselves with the help and support of the State. We are asking for a relatively moderate additional investment on infrastructure, in order to help put Limoges at two and thirty hours from Paris and to win forty-five minutes until Toulouse. We also call for the renovation of rolling stock, so that it can move on a line of 712 kilometres, at a speed of 220 kilometres per hour, in conditions of comfort and service worthy of our country and our times. The Prime Minister's extended visit to the Cher at the beginning of May shows that efforts are needed on all sides to speak not of the diagonal of the emptiness, but of a beating heart when we look at the centre of a map of France. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, we know your commitment to the modernization of the traditional network and to the development of territorial cohesion. This implies greater ease of movement, as well as greater proximity of our territories to each other and to Paris. We therefore count on you to present us with a blueprint to match the economic challenges that France is facing today, even in the most remote parts of the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u54	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u55	Madam Member of Parliament, I am replying to you in the place of Elizabeth Borne, retained in the Senate. The Paris-Orléans-Limoges-Toulouse line will, in the next ten years, benefit from numerous investments in order to renew its infrastructure and trains. As you know, opening up territories and connecting them to metropolitan areas is a priority of the Government. This is why a quality service will be offered, by 2025, to all the passengers of the axis – quality in terms not only of regularity, but also of travel time. By 2025, we plan to allocate €1.6 billion for the redevelopment of the POLT line and to replace all trains on the line. A call for tenders was launched at the end of 2016 and the tenders have just been submitted; the contract is expected to be signed in spring 2019 and delivery of the new trainsets could take place in 2023. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you can see, the Member of Parliament: as early as 2025, travellers on this line will benefit from a more reliable service, with a renewed infrastructure. Incidents should be halved. The service will be faster – the travel time between Paris and Limoges will decrease by fifteen minutes – and more comfortable, since the trains will be completely new. This is the meaning of the outline of the line that will be proposed to you next July.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u56	The next speaker is Mr Michel Delpon, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u57	My question is to Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. Hydrogen, provided it is green, can meet the challenges of the energy transition while guaranteeing France's independence from the Chinese who will control 90% of the world's battery production by 2030. If industrialists and users are beginning to become aware of the need to get out of diesel and gasoline – I would like, Minister of State, to welcome your determination when you announced last July that the sale of petrol and diesel cars will end by 2040 – we will also have to rethink our strategy for hybrid vehicles and "100% battery" to move on to fuel cell mobility. Mobility is also the train. While only half of the French network is electrified, the other half, or 15,000 kilometres of railway tracks, generally operates on trains driven by diesel engines. Our German neighbours, then Italian and now Austrian, have chosen the hydrogen train. We need to follow them up soon. In order to adopt hydrogen, it must be tried: I therefore propose to you, Mr Minister of State, to move from speech to action by circulating our first hydrogen train on the TER line between Bordeaux and Bergerac and Sarlat. The applications of hydrogen are numerous: power supply to data centers, refrigerated trucks with fuel cell in Japan, hydrogen storage of electricity produced from solar energy in Réunion, prototype elevator to eliminate the use of lead and cadmium, development by the National Centre for Scientific Research – CNRS – of bio-cells replacing the chemical catalyst with bacterial enzymes. I am also thinking of the surprising discovery of Australian researchers who have developed a solar painting that can generate hydrogen, or of the invention of a start-up that I met yesterday, here, in my National Assembly office, and which has developed low-pressure hydrogen capsules that work on the same principle as a sponge. Let me finish my question...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u58	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u59	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group as well as on a few benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] Mr President, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to talk about a subject that is important to me, because I am firmly convinced – and you will help me convince each other – that hydrogen will play an important role in the energy transition. This is a potential revolution for energy systems. Today, in view of the dramatic fall in renewable energy prices, as you said, it is finally possible to produce large quantities of hydrogen at low cost and, of course, without greenhouse gas emissions. Hydrogen can also become a major solution for our energy mix of tomorrow, first of all by making possible the large-scale storage of renewable energies, thus making it possible to make credible a world where hydrogen gradually replaces fossil and nuclear energy to fill the intermittances of solar and wind energy. Finally, hydrogen, if produced with renewable energy sources, can contribute to greenhouse gas-free mobility of trains, truck fleets, municipal fleets and buses, thus providing a response to air quality problems. You know better than I do, Germany and the Netherlands are currently experimenting with hydrogen trains made in France; I believe that these trains will also be used to operate on small French lines. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on some benches of the UDI-Agir group]] In this spirit, on Friday I will present a hydrogen plan that will aim to make our country a world leader in hydrogen technology. To this end, I have proposed setting the share of hydrogen produced from renewable sources at 10% by 2023. Moreover, because we need innovation, demonstrators and economic champions in the storage of electrolysis, I have decided to mobilise EUR 100 million to support the first deployments of these production and transport technologies in the territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on some benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] The entire hydrogen industry exists in France. Let's not miss this energy transition! Let's be the first in this industry!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u60	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u61	Prime Minister François Molins, the Paris prosecutor, whom everyone unfortunately learned to know because of the events of the last three years, alerted us, a few days ago, live on television. He explained that, in 2018, 2019 and 2020, at the end of their sentence, twenty-five, seventeen and twenty-two persons convicted of terrorism would be released, respectively, and that in the following years some fifty terrorists would be released again. He made it clear that, far from atoning, if I may say so, their error, they in prison had probably strengthened in their radicalization. They are, in fact, the precursors of another 500 persons convicted of terrorism who are in prison and will remain there in the years to come, and of 1200 ordinary convicts who have radicalized in prison. This problem is obviously very worrying and Prosecutor Molins explains that it will be necessary to adapt to an unprecedented threat that has probably increased despite the prison. Prime Minister, without doubt that the Government wanted to anticipate, I would like to know what the means are in place to ensure that we are able to follow all those who, coming out of prison, probably become a much greater danger to society than they were before they entered. Second question: has a specific organisation been planned or imagined so that all police, gendarmerie and justice services can, as I would like to do, work together, as well as with mayors and local authorities, who often have early warning elements, even about people who have just left prison and are spread over the territory? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Question 3: Are there any new legal means needed to deal with this unprecedented threat? Indeed, increased monitoring sometimes requires increased fees for our services.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u62	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u63	President Lagarde, France faces a long-lasting, endogenous, diffuse and high threat – as we know, and François Molins, who has distinguished responsibilities in the fight against terrorism and its repression, knows better than anyone else. In a televised interview, he did say – which is the reality – that after the execution of their sentence, a number of detainees will recover their liberty, in accordance with the law and the terms of the sentence to which they were sentenced. You have given orders of magnitude: out of about 70000 inmates, 1500 or 1600 are monitored for radicalization; 500 have been convicted or prosecuted for terrorist-related acts; Approximately 20 individuals will be released in 2018 and some 20 in 2019. The first element of your question is that by two laws, of June and July 2016, the conditions for the execution of sentences and for parole have been tightened and strengthened, adapted to the specific nature of terrorism. In addition, procedures, which I will not expand on, have been put in place so that the prison intelligence services and all the services concerned – prefectures, gendarmerie and national police – can ensure a special follow-up of the individuals who fall into these categories and are, in due course, released. As far as minors are concerned – as there are minors detained or, at least, followed for comparable facts – a specific permanent accompanying mechanism has been put in place. With the very clear strengthening of the operational resources made available to the police, gendarmerie and DGSI – the Directorate-General for Internal Security – as part of the increase in the number of staff voted by the National Assembly and the Senate, this mechanism allows us to put in place an effective follow-up of those in the situation you indicate. It is an extremely careful follow-up, respectful of the law, of course, but devoid of naivety, which must be implemented and for which all the State services have organized themselves. You are calling for better coordination or exchange of information between government departments and mayors, Mr. Member. You know as well as I do, and for the same reasons as I do, that when the state and a municipality have good relations, when their exchanges are fluid, it can bring a much clearer safety net. Prosecutor Molins himself indicated that he considered it necessary to go even further in the quality and intensity of the relations between the State services and the mayors. I think he is right, but you know as well as I do, honourable Member, that this exchange of information is very difficult to implement. It requires trust, which is not decreed, and a will as some elected officials have said – and I respect it – that they do not want to be part of this logic, because they do not necessarily know what to do with information that can be exchanged. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] It is therefore necessary to "protocolize" – pardon for this term – to organize in the best possible way the relationship between mayors, who play a prominent role in security and have access to certain information, and the services of the State. We are ready to do this, but I know – and I do not want to hide the difficulty – that this exercise is terribly delicate and will require lengthy discussions with each of the mayors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u64	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u65	Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, as President of the France-Russia Friendship Group, I had the honour to accompany the President of the Republic during his visit to St Petersburg on 24 and 25 May,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u66	What a lucky girl!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u67	... which allowed real progress on several major topics. [["Hello! » on some benches of the LR group]] Dialogue among civilizations, cultures, economies and religions is a necessity, a sine qua non for peace and prosperity. The President of the Republic, from the beginning of his term of office, wished to place this dialogue – that of civil societies – at the heart of his foreign policy, by setting up the Trianon dialogue. Similarly, within the framework of the friendship group, which brings together parliamentarians from all walks of life, we have endeavoured, instead of our own, to exchange frequently, without overlooking our differences, with our Duma counterparts as well as with other political, economic or academic actors. The visit of the President of the Republic to St. Petersburg, while in keeping with this desire for dialogue, has a stronger and more strategic dimension. While it is essential to mention some complex issues, such as the agreement on Iran's nuclear power, Syria, Ukraine or cyberattacks, it is necessary to place Franco-Russian bilateral relations in a broader geopolitical context, which highlights the place of the European Union and multilateralism in our strategy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In an international context full of uncertainties and uncertainties, France, with its independence and the values it embodies, has a major role to play. What balance can we and should we find with Russia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, where we are currently witnessing a recomposition of regional balances, and with Asia?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u68	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u69	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Same movements]] Madam January, as you have recalled, since his election, the President of the Republic has held to President Putin a demanding language, a language of truth; It was the principles that dominated his official visit to St. Petersburg last week. As you have also pointed out, our foreign policy is autonomous and independent; It is neither subject to the unilateral decisions of the US President nor naive about President Putin's positions. President Macron has also publicly recalled this in St Petersburg, calling on Russia to respect our interests, our sovereignty and the fact that we stand in unwavering solidarity with our European partners. You were right to point out that progress was made during this meeting in the field of international security. We have made progress on Iran, not only in the recognition of the need to continue the implementation of the Vienna Agreement, but also in order to extend it to other security issues. We have also made progress on Syria – this is the most important point – through the establishment of a coordination mechanism between the powers. We have also made progress on Ukraine, with the need to relaunch the Minsk process next June. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We have also made progress in the cultural and economic dialogue: some 50 contracts and framework agreements have been signed, including in the cultural field and in the revitalization of the Trianon dialogue process, all in a follow-up spirit, because the presidents have agreed together that the dialogue will continue to verify the proper implementation of the important commitments they have undertaken together in St. Petersburg.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u70	Mrs Huguette Bello, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u71	Madame la Garde des Seales, Minister of Justice, the emotion is alive, in Fleury-Mérogis and at La Réunion where Alexandre Gonneau wanted to go back to live and work. On 22 May, this 27-year-old man committed suicide; ten days earlier, one of his colleagues had put an end to his days; Meanwhile, a guard had been injured by a radicalized inmate. All three worked at the Fleury-Mérogis prison; All three are from overseas countries and territories. These tragedies refer, once again, to the working conditions of prison guards. An ever-increasing prison overcrowding, chronic understaffing, has led to an unprecedented climate of violence and insecurity. Anxiety and stress have become the daily lot of overseers. These tragedies also raise questions about management methods that are described as toxic by those who are subjected to them and who denounce the unsustainable and blind pressure imposed on them. Before throwing himself from the top of the Tancarville bridge, Alexander gave several warning signs. After a degrading attack by a detainee in the disciplinary district, he did not even benefit from the treatment protocol provided for. No one accompanied him to the medical examination, and he had to report to the hospital alone. He was then given 15 days of sick leave due to burn-out, but he will never finish his first day of recovery. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups, on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, on some benches of the LR group and among the non-attached MPs]] Fleury-Mérogis is the largest prison in Europe. It is also the one where very young civil servants are assigned and where more than half of the supervisors come from overseas. Staff and their families rely on you, Minister, to shed light on these suicides. All of you are asking to learn the lessons of these tragedies. I hope with them that the fate of our young people will not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u72	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u73	Madam Member, your question echoes both individual drama and a collective inquiry. The individual dramas, you have rightly stated, referring to the situation of an overseer who put an end to her days about a week before Mr. Gonneau's disappearance. She was suffering from a long and painful illness and her entourage specifically asked our administration to be silent and to observe the utmost discretion on this subject. Alexandre Gonneau was the collateral victim of an attack on another inmate, who was hit by a jet of liquid. He did not want to file an immediate complaint and it was his hierarchy and colleagues present who had to insist that he agree to report the accident at work. He then received the necessary accompaniment and did not immediately consider it necessary to be accompanied to the hospital. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] In any event, these are individual tragedies, which obviously challenge us collectively, and I am fully aware of them, Madam Member. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond these individual situations, it is certain that the particular difficulty and the risks surrounding the prison professions deserve our utmost attention: this is what we are doing with the utmost vigilance. The management of the prison administration, given the inherent difficulties of the prison context, has been working on the issue of suicides for a long time. Multi-disciplinary support for a network of psychologists has been put in place, information and training tools are deployed and work is being done on working rhythms and quality of life at work. You can be assured, honourable Member, of my personal commitment to ensure that these collective issues do not lead to personal suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u74	The floor is for Mr Michel Fanget, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u75	[[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group]] Madam Minister responsible for transport, you have recently referred to the outline of the new mobility law. The measures you intend to take should lead to the abolition of free motorways, with a view to financing new developments. This would be tantamount to even more privatizing our motorway network, a measure that François Bayrou has been opposed to for many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u76	A sling!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u77	Although the intention to improve the road network is commendable, I wish today to echo many of the territories which are particularly concerned about this decision. The A75, between Clermont-Ferrand and Béziers, was built in the 1990s, at the initiative of President Giscard d'Estaing, to unblock the rural territories of the Central Massif. She is the backbone of my constituency as she crosses it from one side to the other. Every day, almost 80000 vehicles borrow it free of charge, allowing thousands of our fellow citizens to go to work and businesses in our territories to operate. Making this highway pay would put a stop to the opening of our territories, as some municipalities do not have secondary networks to reach the main urban centres. Making this highway pay is encouraging thousands of motorists to use the secondary network, of which we know that, on certain portions, the condition of the roadway leaves something to be desired. I will thank you for the consequences that this can have on road mortality, with secondary networks accounting for most of the accidents. To make this motorway pay is to affect the purchasing power of our citizens in a period when, on the contrary, it must be supported, even beyond the fact that this motorway has already been financed for the first time by the taxpayer. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Can you assure us that the A75 will remain free, as your predecessors had promised, in exchange for an increase in the length of the concessions granted to the autoroutary companies, so as not to penalise the territories of the Central Massif even more?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u78	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u79	Mr President, I would like to reassure you about the situation on the A75 and A20 motorways: as you rightly say, these major areas of land clearing must be preserved – this is the case with the Central Massif. The Government therefore does not intend to subject motorists using these motorways to tolls. However, the Road Traffic Code already authorizes the tolling of roads in the national road network under motorway status. This is why it is used, when necessary, and especially when we have to carry out important development work which is essential for the safety of users or the reduction of congestion in road traffic. The State also conducts concessions when the cost of a large investment is to be insured by the user. Thus, a call for tenders was launched by the State for a concession of the RCEA – the Centre-Atlantic Europe route – in the Allier department: this allowed to speed up the transformation of this road, which is recognised by all as dangerous. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] With regard specifically to the A75 motorway, be reassured: it is a recent motorway, designed to unblock rural areas and especially the Central Massif. There is therefore absolutely no intention of the state to put this highway toll for motorists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u80	Mr David Habib, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u81	I would like to ask the Prime Minister about social assistance. I will begin with a quote: "What I see every day is nothing like what the new advocates of the supposed generosity of our social model describe. Thus spoke the vice-president of the General Council of Saône-et-Loire in charge of solidarity, Benjamin Griveaux, in 2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u82	Back then, he was on the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u83	In 2018, the same Benjamin Griveaux, who became minister evoking the welfare state in the Parisian press, stigmatized "republican alms".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u84	And at the same time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we have noted a slight inflection...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u86	Very light!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u87	Mr Griveaux's comments are in addition to the dance steps taken by Mr Darmanin and Mr Le Maire on the same issue, and the Bercy report which aims to reduce social assistance. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] Prime Minister, it is time for you to speak because, for the gifts to the richest, the French understood: the introduction of flat tax, the abolition of the tax on wealth and soon the exit tax. Even François Bayrou, never misguided with advice, is concerned in South West that Emmanuel Macron is not perceived as the president of the rich. For the French with average or modest incomes, you are more confused. Of course, they know that you have increased the CSG – the widespread social contribution –, reduced the LPA – personalized housing support – and refused to upgrade pensions, especially agricultural ones. However, for the future, depending on whether they listen to each other, they do not know, even if they begin to understand that, on the bonus of activity or unemployment benefits, you are preparing something in catini. [[Mrs. and Mr. members of the NG group rise and applaud]] This is not the question of the efficiency of social assistance: there is agreement on this. It is a question of maintaining a level of solidarity with all the French. On this issue, we hear, Prime Minister, that you are speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u88	The Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, spokesman for the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u89	[[Smile]] Mr Habib, I would first like to congratulate you on the quality of your readings. The Prime Minister had the opportunity to speak this morning and we need to listen carefully to the report of the government seminar that took place. [[Hulls on the benches of the LR and NG groups]] Social policies in this country for 30 years have failed, as you know. Only one figure sums it up: 9 million people below the poverty line, one in five children, and that is also the record of the quinquennium during which you supported the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u90	You too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u91	Hypocrite!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u92	Ladies and gentlemen! Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u93	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and NG groups]] Behind these figures, Mr President, there is another reality, even worse, much more unbearable: the social assignment, the impossibility for millions of our fellow citizens to choose their lives, to build them freely and even to imagine that it is possible to get out of the precarious situation for themselves and even more so for their children. This is the unbearable nature of the failure of the social policies that have been carried out!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u94	What a cynicism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u95	You supported them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u96	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] What are you proposing? From indignation, from good words, to continue as if nothing were, to pursue in the same direction, when we have a clear objective: to end the inequalities of destiny, to end the inequalities because of which, because we are born in a bad neighbourhood or a disadvantaged social milieu, we are condemned to life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u97	Ecoeurant of tartufferie and cynicism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u98	[[Exclaims on the banks of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group. – Hued on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on the banks of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] This is what we are doing, by investing in education and vocational training, by introducing universal unemployment benefit! That's all you didn't vote for, MP, and that's what we do, not playing the next election but the next generation! That's the difference between you and us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u99	Zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u100	The turnaround is now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u101	What wouldn't we do for a job?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, could we listen to the replies of the members of the Government in a calm and respectful manner, regardless of the opinions they give rise to?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u103	The next speaker is Mr Alexandre Freschi, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u104	Minister for Agriculture and Food, my question concerns one of the key steps in the annual obligations of our farmers. From 16 May until 11 June 2018, farmers must report on the characteristics of their operations and the nature of their activities, via the TelePAC digital platform. This declaration will depend on the receipt and amount of their aid under the CAP, the common agricultural policy. However, every year many farmers do not receive the aid to which they are entitled because of technical difficulties associated with the use of this platform. As part of the preparation of my report with my colleague André Chassaigne, 'Sustainable agriculture for Europe', which I will present tomorrow morning in the Committee on European Affairs, I met in my constituency a farmer who, simply for forgetting to check a box of tele-declaration, saw his aid amputated by EUR 10000. Another saw her just canceled. While in France, direct aid represents on average 46% of farmers' income – it exceeds 100% of cattle and sheep farmers' incomes, and 40% of cereal producers' incomes – it is very deplorable that a digital tool has such economic consequences for the profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u105	Are you awake? It's been three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u106	Aware of the stakes of this tele-declaration, the chambers of agriculture offer accompanying services which, if they allow these steps to be carried out at best, nevertheless remain fee-paying. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] My question is therefore: Mr Minister, while the Government carries the requirement of simplification in the exchanges between the user and the administration, what measures will be taken to improve the quality of the services provided and to guarantee our farmers access to their aids without technical barriers?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u107	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u108	Mr Freschi, allow me first of all to welcome the quality of the work that you and President Chassaigne are doing in preparation for the new CAP. Tomorrow, you have just recalled, you will present your European resolution to the Committee on European Affairs; I want you to know that I fully subscribe to it. You're asking me about the TelePAC statements. I am particularly attentive, of course, to the tools developed to enable farmers to have access to aid, to be easily usable and not to penalize it. As such, the tele-declaration campaign was exemplary. I'll give you a few numbers. At the national level, 347252 files were telereported between 1 April and 15 May; the estimated target, of the order of 350,000 files, is thus achieved – this is the first time that such a level has been reached within this time frame. The last day of tele-declarations was important: more than 30,000 files were filed on that day alone. This positive result reflects the good conditions for the tele-declaration campaign. Improvements have been made in the ergonomics of the system, the reporting tools and the setting up of alerts that guide users and make it possible to make statements reliable and thus avoid certain errors. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On 21 June 2007, the Government committed itself to a normal return of the CAP payment schedule for the 2018 campaign. The successful implementation of the declaration campaign concludes the first stage of achieving this objective, which is expected by all our farmers. It remains possible to file files during the late filing period, from 16 May to 11 June 2018; files filed during this period will be subject to 1% late payment penalties per day. In addition, files filed before May 15 may be amended until May 31 inclusive without the application of late penalties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u109	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u110	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u111	[[The meeting was suspended at 4.05 p.m. and resumed at 4.20 p.m. with Ms Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u112	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u113	The next item is the explanations of vote on behalf of the groups and the vote by public vote on the draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and on healthy and sustainable food (No. 627, 902, 838).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u114	The next speaker is Mr Nicolas Turquois, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u115	Madam President, the Minister for Agriculture and Food, the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, today's solemn vote has a particular meaning for those who have long been defending the French farm and are committed to a more competitive, more remunerative agriculture, but also to environmental issues. The first agricultural bill of the legislature, the text has raised new and strong expectations among our farmers and fellow citizens, which we have endeavoured not to disappoint. This bill is the one – I must admit – that struck me the most: eight days and eight nights of intense debate, without interruption. However, despite the length of the exchanges, the debates were laid down, interesting, and I felt a real pleasure to listen to the speeches and arguments of all Members, wherever they come from on these benches. I see this agricultural law as a real turning point, because it leads to a complete reversal of the method: the reversal of the logic of price construction first for a better distribution of added value among the actors, so that each farmer is paid at the right price paid; the promotion of quality food products, especially through collective restoration. However, if I remain convinced that this approach is the right one, it is important to convince our farmers of the validity of the text, without stigmatizing their practices, which have their history and reasons. If we do not take the producers with us, I fear that this bill will remain a dead letter. That is why, in the MODEM and related groups, we are in favour of adaptation times, of drawing up sector plans, of strengthening the role of interprofessionals, of transforming the system, and not of opposition between each other. The questions of animal welfare or plant protection products are legitimate and must be asked. On many subjects, I was struck by the shared awareness on all the benches of the House. Farmers now know that a change in practices is not only necessary, but inevitable. We have, I believe, found a balance on the subjects that have made the media news: know how to say no immediately to neonicotinoids in the face of the dramatic fall of bees populations; know how to say no to the new projects of hens rearing buildings in cages, but to allow the sector time to profit from the investments that have just been made; and remind our farmers of the strong commitments of the President of the Republic on glyphosate, even if we could not, at the same time, affirm our confidence in the farmers who have committed themselves and include its prohibition in the law. We must be collectively, with farmers, guarantors of the commitment of our majority. [[Applause on many benches of MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] I sincerely believe that parliamentary work, whether in committee or in session, has helped to broaden the scope and depth of the text. This enrichment has been possible thanks to your openness and listening, Mr Minister and Mr rapporteur, whose thanks I sincerely thank you, not to mention President Lescure. But I also had great pleasure in listening to good arguments. I will greet here – I pray those whom I will not quote to apologize – Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie, Monique Limon and Célia de Lavergne with whom we have worked well. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] This week, Thierry Benoit and Antoine Herth; many deputies Republicans like Vincent Descoeur, Arnaud Viala or Véronique Louwagie; Dominique Potier, Guillaume Garot, André Chassaigne or Sébastien Jumel – to name but a few – have made me progress in my reflections. I also associate my colleagues in the MODEM group, including Marc Fesneau of course, and especially Richard Ramos, whose verb has convinced us several times. We were all looking forward to this bill, because it is about the future of our agriculture. It's a first step. We are now waiting, Mr Minister, for upcoming meetings on the installation of young farmers, agricultural land, taxation, water storage, the necessary simplification of standards, Mercosur and the reform of the common agricultural policy. For all these reasons, the MODEM and related groups will enthusiastically vote on this bill, but with the demand that it find its full measure with all the actors. Allow me to express my regret at the conclusion of my remarks on the way in which this evening's sitting took place: quality amendments were discussed too quickly because of the late hour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u116	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group, on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the IDU-Agir group]] Some even took the opportunity to distort the debates, thus giving a very poor image of parliamentary work in a debate that had been of good quality and very well conducted. I would like this to be taken into account in the reflections on the evolution of parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u118	Mr Thierry Benoit, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM, LR and MODEM groups]] My dear Minister, my dear Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, my dear rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, from the General Food States to the text of the law, the account is not there. Here we are at the end of a legislative marathon, which ended last night. I would like to welcome the mobilisation of Members on this text for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and for a healthy and sustainable diet. I would like to stress your full involvement in this legislative time, Minister, as well as that of our valiant rapporteur, Jean-Baptiste Moreau!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u120	That's for sure! Even if we didn't always agree with him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u121	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM, LR and MODEM groups]] I also have a friendly thought for Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie. You have endeavoured, Mr Minister, to respond objectively to all the amendments tabled for discussion by Members. Throughout the debate, the members of the UDI-Agir Group took responsibility for their work and supported, during the debate, a modern agriculture, which pays farmers decently and places social and human issues at the top of the agenda. Naturally, the environmental issue is a requirement. Contrary to what some say, I do not know any Member of Parliament who has not become aware of the ecological urgency of our planet. Common-sense elected officials are unanimous in stopping the use of glyphosate and neonicotinoids. The President of the Republic has set the term of 2021; You, Minister, have defined the method: consultation and unwavering mobilisation of all actors, in order to find as soon as possible alternative methods that will resolutely ensure the protection of biodiversity and further increase the criteria of health security. As regards the consideration of animal welfare, it is the same thing: a diagnosis shared with the farming sectors in order to speed up the plans of the sector and to set up programmes for the mutation of farming techniques. The example of the laying hen industry is emblematic of the will of the breeders to improve the conditions of breeding and thus to take into account this reality, enshrined in the law of 2015, that the animal is a sensitive being. Every effort must be made to ensure that, from birth to death, farm animals have as peaceful a life as possible with the least suffering. The quality of French food has always been oriented towards excellence. The text further encourages all actors, from land to plate, to take the necessary measure of the concept of healthy and sustainable diet. Thus, the concept of healthy agriculture and nutrition must be identified and valued. This is due to the good health of the population. The act of feeding, in our beautiful country, which has included gastronomy in the UNESCO world heritage, must remain a noble cultural gesture, which strengthens the social bond between men. Minister, since the beginning of our work, I have kept repeating that the heart of the subject that brings us together today remains the income of French farmers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u122	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] ...for every pain deserves a salary. I doubt that the measures in this bill will allow for a better distribution of value added and better income for farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u124	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u125	It was the commitment of the President of the Republic to reverse the price construction process by proclaiming that farmers, from now on, based on the cost of production indicators, would set the prices for agricultural products. But the text before us does not give producers enough sovereignty to improve the balance of power relations between the various players in the chain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u126	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u127	Trade relations must be moralized. Mr Minister, thanks to the actions of the IDU Group, you have identified the role and place of purchasing centres in commercial relations for many years. The problem of the concentration of large-scale distribution must be solved, while the public authorities have been slow to support farmers in a necessary structuring of the supply of producer organisations and associations of producer organisations. Finally, the debates did not allow us to further highlight the correlation between your text, Mr Minister, and the common agricultural policy under discussion. Indeed, with 28 million hectares of useful agricultural area, France is, and must remain, the first agricultural country in Europe. This exporting function should not be overlooked.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u128	Thank you for closing, Mr. Benoit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u129	What better job than feeding men? I say again, we have the best farmers in the world. The occupation of farmer is certainly the most beautiful one, with that of teacher and caregiver.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u130	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u131	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Mr Minister, I repeat, the IDU, Action and Independent Group will abstain from this text. This is a lack of alert and vigilance, because we are denouncing shortcomings: the cost of labour, the common agricultural policy, land, and the EUR 5 billion plan, which is not sufficiently developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u132	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u133	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr rapporteur, Madam draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, ladies and gentlemen, what are the remaining months of trade within the framework of the General Food States? Farmers, leaders of food companies, trade union representatives, activists, elected officials played the game,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u134	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u135	... formulated proposals, outlined solutions, to contribute to a food policy that can both restore farmers' income and consumer confidence. That was the breath of the general states of food!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u136	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u137	It was also the hope that the law that would follow would provide answers and chart a path for the agricultural and food transition that our country needs. Unfortunately, today, after the eight days and eight nights of debates, often of good quality – in this regard, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister and the two rapporteurs – who have stood under the eyes of the French, it is disappointment that prevails, the feeling of a missed opportunity and a broken momentum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u138	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u139	With respect to farmers' income, the provisions contained in the Bill are in line with the Sapin 2 Act and are intended to rebalance the trade relationship between producers, processors and distributors. We sincerely hope that they will perform their duties. However, farmers should not be fooled by illusions. We are well aware that prices depend, in most cases, on world markets, and that without a tool for regulating these markets and productions at European level, raising the threshold for resale at a loss or reversing the construction of the price will have little effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u141	Let us go further: unfortunately, we are far from the ambitious food policy that the President of the Republic himself called for in his wishes at Rungis last October, talking about a "new agricultural France" and a profound transformation of our ways of producing and consuming. The challenge we have to face is that of regaining the confidence of the French in their diet, after years of food and health crises. The challenge we have to face is that of a quality diet for all, which can really pay those who make the food. I do not go back to the disorder created by the contradictions of the Government and the majority on glyphosate. I do not go back to this curious idea that before you, Minister, nothing would have been done about animal welfare, because it was Stéphane Le Foll himself who laid the foundations for the measures developed today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u142	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u143	Instead, I want to present to you the approach that has been ours: to propose to move forward. In line with the general states of food, we have made very clear proposals to accompany industries and industries towards a healthier, healthier diet. You have refused our amendments to that effect. In line with the general states of food, we have proposed to frame advertising for children and adolescents. It was also refused. In line with the general states of food, we have proposed a real education in food, in school, with a dedicated educational path, to transmit benchmarks, in particular nutritional ones, and to recall the cultural value, heritage of food, beyond its market value. This provision did not find any more echo. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] We have also proposed, at the initiative of our colleague Dominique Potier, urgent measures to combat land grabbing, the adoption of which would have been a strong signal, pending a land law. New refusal. Finally, under the impetus of our colleague Dominique Potier, we have proposed a compensation fund for the victims of plant protection products, who are waiting for reparation. This proposal was voted unanimously by our honourable senators, but you also refused it. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] We proposed, you rejected. We have kept a very simple accounting: 2310 amendments were under discussion, and of the 110 tabled by the New Left Group, you have retained only 7 of them. The promise to work with all, left and right, without bias, is far from being kept. It was a promise obviously without tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u144	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u145	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group. – Excamations on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to propose to move forward, but you leave us no other choice today than to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u146	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u147	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, during the general discussion, I gave two concrete examples, two possible advances for our agriculture and our food, which, for the majority, represented two opportunities to demonstrate its willingness to change things or, on the contrary, its persistence in closing us in the social and environmental impasse in which we find ourselves. These included the prohibition of glyphosate and the end of plastic containers in school canteens. On these two issues, you have refused to make decisions that are in the general interest – and these are not your only renunciations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u148	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u149	Your bill had to radically change the distribution of the value produced by farmers, in order to ensure a decent income for them. It won't be. You have thus rejected the proposal to set up floor prices to guarantee income for farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u151	[["Yes! » on the benches of the FI group]] Above all, you refused to sanction the purchase of a product below its cost of production. There will therefore be no guaranteed decent income for farmers. These will always be the turkeys of the farce. [["He's right! » on the benches of the FI group]] The title of your law reflected the desire to promote a healthy and sustainable diet, but what reality lies behind such a discourse? Of course, Article 11 provides for the inclusion of 20% of organic products in collective restoration. I recognize this timid progress, even if its application is suspended from the publication of a decree. However, you refuse to ban plastic containers in canteens, allowing endocrine disruptors to pollute our children's meals. You refuse our proposal to make Nutri-Score labelling mandatory, yet it is a simple and effective way to make nutrition information available to the entire population. You make no effort to introduce vegetarian meals into the canteen, or to reduce animal protein consumption by 20%. But the most symptomatic of your renunciation is probably your refusal to frame junk food advertising for children. Moreover, your project does not meet a strong societal demand, shared by many citizens and MPs: the consideration of animal welfare. In this area too, you have rejected our amendments, whether it be the end of factory farms, the ban on live castration of piglets or the crushing of male chicks – to name but a few examples.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u152	It's all horrific.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u153	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Of course, the Assembly has voted against "the introduction into production of any new or remodelled building for the rearing of laying hens reared in cages". However, it has been a long time since such farms were created, as no one chooses this method of production. It was therefore necessary to ban all cage farms from now on, and to accompany the producers. Last Friday, Minister, I heard you, live on the radio, fustiger "the little Marquis of ecology, those who have put political ecology on the ground for ten years, those who have made sure that nothing advances in the field of ecology".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u154	I'll take care of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u155	[["That's not true! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let's look at the ecological provisions of your bill. First, glyphosate will not be banned in three years, or even in five or ten years, contrary to the promises of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u156	Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u157	It's a posture! It's disinformation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u158	Populations will still not be immune to carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic chemicals that are widespread near their homes. In addition, you are agreeing to a step backwards: the bill provides for 15% of the agricultural area to be used for organic farming in 2022, while a law in 2009 provided for 20%. Minister, after eight days and eight nights of discussion, we are tired. We are tired of your refusal to understand the major issues, environmental, social or public health, that are currently being played in our meadows and plates. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Many of us are angry because the influence of the lobbies has once again inspired an empty law of meaning. This text has succeeded only in one thing: to waste time on all of us, from the general states of food to today. Yet we have no more time, neither you, nor us, nor farmers, nor consumers, nor citizens, nor children, nor even industrialists – for when the land, our resources and our own bodies are exhausted, there will be no one left to vote on your laws or to buy their poisons. [[Applause on the benches of the FI groups and on several benches of the NG and GDR groups]] For all these reasons, the La France insoumée group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u159	On the bill as a whole, the vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u160	Madam President, Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur, the rapporteur for an opinion, Mr President of the Committee, I too want to stress the quality of our debates – on the form at least – but this is a very fragile text, which deeply disappoints the farmers of France, the same farmers who were waiting for it with great hope after the hours of co-development in the framework of the General Food States. The Communist deputies discussed this bill with certain priorities: to enable farmers to live with dignity from the fruit of their work, to give hope to the younger generation, to put an end to the race for expansion to the benefit of an agriculture made up of small and medium-sized farms, which provide jobs, and to recognize the specificity of the overseas. In the end, your text does not meet the deepest expectations and concerns on the issue of the remunerative price. There is no reason to say that farmers will have a hand in setting prices and will get a decent income tomorrow. You have once again made the choice of favouring the law of the market and not the law that protects. While, like all the groups in this House, we have come with a constructive will, your majority has once again demonstrated its dogmatism by rejecting the principle of a law that regulates, both at national and European level. When we proposed protecting farmers in the negotiations by creating public indicators, you shouted at the administered economy, sometimes falling into the caricature. The Paris-Brussels arbitrations had the upper hand, with some adjustments, as on the sanctions regime. The large distribution and the processing industries can rub their hands: no measure actually upsets the current balance of forces between the large distribution and processing giants on the one hand, and the hundreds of thousands of atomized producers on the other. Raising the resale threshold at a loss for promotions will not change anything, except that consumers' bills will increase without any benefits to farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u161	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u162	The good intentions that drive you, Minister, are not enough. Our farmers are now the prey of the deadly logics of free competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u163	Colleagues, can you win your seats by making less noise, because it is difficult for Mr Jumel to speak?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u164	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group, as well as on a few benches in the UDI-Agir and NG groups]] Respect those who attended the debates! The negotiation of free trade treaties such as CETA – the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, to which you have trinched – or the agreement between the European Union and Mercosur aggravates the threat, while the common agricultural policy is gradually being reduced as a matter of grief. You call for patience and consultation, but our farmers no longer have time. They are caught in the throat: 30% of them earn less than 350 euros per month. On the second part of the text under discussion, the Government and the majority offered us a florilege of display measures that were not accompanied by any accompanying provisions. The text sets the laudable target of 50 % of organic or local products in canteens by 2022, but the law does not provide for any accompanying arrangements for municipalities and disadvantaged families. This is also the case for measures relating to animal welfare and plant protection products. Yet our peasants are trapped in the logic of social and environmental dumping. These difficulties cannot be overcome with symbolic measures, without European harmonisation and better protection of Europe's borders. To discuss plant health, not to mention the way in which our farmers are actually accompanied, is a matter of gesticulation. We are convinced of the requirement to leave glyphosate within three years. This deadline must be kept, but the law we debated and the amendments proposed in the middle of the night...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u165	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u166	... do not foresee an exit plan for farmers that will facilitate the transformation of farming methods or a support plan for the National Institute for Agricultural Research. At the end of the day, this law does not provide the means for this release of glyphosate in three years, and we deplore it. [[Mr. Jean-Yves Bony applauds]] Our peasants and our fellow citizens expect concrete, not positions of principle without tomorrow sustained with great reinforcement of communication. We expect the Government to submit to national representation the plan for the release of the promised glyphosate, in line with the challenges of the agricultural world, and we will vote on it provided that it provides for support for farmers and basic research. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Jérôme Lambert also applauds]] One thing must be said: on the farmers' side, as on the NGO side, you have failed expectations, you have failed expectations. Where's the law that protects? What has become of the will that animated the general states of food? Why this obstinacy not to hear the frustration and anger of our farmers? Minister, the promised revolution is obviously not on the table; You have replaced it with a package of marketing measures, a smokescreen intended to camouflage the sufferings of rural France. All these reasons will lead us to vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u167	Mrs Monique Limon, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u168	Madam President, Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur, the rapporteur for an opinion, Mr President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, after eight days and eight nights of unparalleled work in committee and in this House, I must admit that it is with a little fatigue, but above all with great pride and great happiness that I am defending today the vote of the La République Group in favour of the bill for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy and sustainable diet. I would like to highlight and commend the quality of our debates on various and complex subjects, as well as the mobilisation and commitment of Members on all sides of this House. Our debates have been passionate because agriculture is at the heart of what France is. Agriculture feeds us, it is a formidable economic asset for our territories, it transforms our landscapes, it affects us all, from close to and from a distance, and I believe that the issues we have discussed over the past few days demonstrate this. On July 20, 2017, we were numerous in Bercy for the launch of the General Food States. At that time, the situation was multiple: farmers in arrears, a model losing competitiveness, price volatility, but also increasing consumer expectations. After several months of consultation and work, both at national and in our territories, the text that we are going to vote on today represents the legislative translation of these efforts. It is structured around two pillars that I think it is essential to recall. The first is the right price for our farmers: it is the very object of Title I, with the reversal of the price construction to take into account the costs of production, the framework of promotions to stop the price war, always drawn at the lowest for the producers, the raising of 10% of the resale threshold at a loss or the new clauses of renegotiation. The second pillar refers to a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all, with the goal of 50 % organic and local products in collective restoration by 2022, better account being taken of animal welfare in order to meet the growing demand of our citizens, but also the reduction of the use of plant protection products through the separation of sales and advice. This bill implements many commitments of the President of the Republic, the trademark of our majority being respect for the word given to restore confidence. Many will find that we have not gone far enough, but it must be recognized that this text is at a turning point. We must all welcome the many advances that parliamentarians have made in your project, and I would like to mention a few of them: strengthening the role of the Ombudsman; modulation of sanctions according to a percentage of turnover – this was the demand of all parliamentary groups in committee and we must be pleased that this development was adopted at the sitting; the strengthening of the control of the reconciliations of purchasing plants. We have also adopted numerous measures to enable all French people to have access to a healthy, safe and sustainable diet, with in particular the introduction of a protein diversification plan to meet the ever-increasing demand of citizens; the prohibition of any new caged hens rearing facility; the introduction of an experimental video monitoring device in slaughterhouses; or the prohibition of the use of plastic bottles as part of collective catering services by 1 January 2020. This text is a first step around other projects that will take place in the coming months: the food roadmap, the issue of agricultural land and tax reform. The law provides tools to translate the objectives, but they can only be achieved if the professionals take advantage of them. We will be at their side to successfully transform our agricultural model. As you will have understood, the La République en marche group welcomes the many advances made in committee and in public sitting and enthusiastically supports this ambitious bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u169	Ambitious? Definitely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u170	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Several Members of the LaREM Group rise and applaud]] ...and looking to the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u171	Mr Jérôme Nury, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u172	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, after hours, days and nights of work...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u173	Weekends, even!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u174	... in committee and in public sitting, worthy of the most critical calvings, we have reached the end of the first reading of this text, long awaited by the agricultural profession. First of all, I want to thank you, minister, for the quality of your listening throughout the process of reviewing this bill and for your personal involvement in the proper conduct of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u176	While we are going to have to decide on this text, I must admit to being more Normand than ever. Between the rather positive general philosophy of Title I and the strong additional constraints imposed on farmers in Title II, between the interesting advances in redefining contractual relations and the glaring lack of voluntarism to give back weight to farmers, I am shared, dubious and worried. This text, in the version we will be forwarding to the Senate, is not up to the stakes. The stakes, Minister, you know them: it is no more than saving our agricultural model, French agriculture, the one that irrigates our countryside, the one that shaped our history and our geography, the one that is often passed on from generation to generation, the one that we all have in our DNA. It is a matter of reviving hope for these hundreds of thousands of men and women who, in our rural areas, despair of working ten to twelve hours a day, often seven days a week, without holidays or weekends, for only a few hundred euros a month. It is a matter of giving positive prospects to farmers who – particularly in my department of Orne – produce wheat at a loss, to farmers who see this month the price of the ton of milk rise to less than 300 euros – a dramatic development. Many no longer believe in their profession, which they love deeply; Many even wish to leave him. This text is the last lifebuoy we can reach them in this storm of distress that strikes the agricultural world. But I feel that they are being thrown a deflated buoy, because once again, with the usual method we have known for almost a year, the verb is high but the acts are weak. Yes, minister, there is a fear that the general states will only lead to disappointments. At the beginning of our discussions, however, we had sounded an alarm at the risks of an insufficiently proactive text to reverse the balance of forces between farmers, processors and distributors. And at the end of our discussions, we are no more reassured. Of course, thanks to the Republicans, we have been able to introduce important improvements in Article 1, first by providing for the neutrality of cost indicators, thus avoiding truncated or subjective indicators established by dominant actors who are not respectful of our farmers...,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u177	He's right, it's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u178	... and then – a strategic step forward to give farmers more weight in the negotiations – by strengthening producer organisations whose framework agreements will prevail and cannot be circumvented.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u179	That's good too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u180	Despite these provisions that we have defended, the rest of the text appears to be a generally useless set of measures, and often far too restrictive for our farmers. This is the case with the framework of promotions and the increase in the threshold of resale at a loss, which will increase the margins of distributors without bringing anything to the producers. Worse still, the ban on rebates and the separation of sales and advisory activities for plant protection products will seriously increase the production costs of operators. While this text is supposed to give them oxygen, they are added constraints, loads, standards. How can we understand, moreover, the lack of clear leadership by the Government and the majority in regulating purchasing centres and their groupings? Today, there are only four buyers: they make the law in the negotiations and impose indecent prices on our farmers. How can we understand that, despite our repeated requests, the mediator for agricultural trade relations has not been given deterrent powers to establish his authority in the discussions between actors in the sector? [[Applause on many benches in the LR group. –Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr Minister, this text is not satisfactory: between the measures given as a pledge to the eco-boboboist wing of the majority, those which are grievous, which contribute to increasing the burdens of our farmers and those which will be of no use, you do not respond in a way adapted to the agricultural crisis. This is all the more serious because the future of our agriculture is uncertain: between the possible reduction in the budget of the common agricultural policy, on which the President of the Republic is dramatically silent, and the entry into force of the CETA and the agreement with Mercosur, the threats are high! [["What courage! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] At this stage of the discussion, given the negative elements I have mentioned, the few positive points that we have been able to add to the text, but also our hope that the Senate will improve it further, our group will abstain. We lack a clear course for the future of our agriculture. You may also miss, Minister, a voluntary and united majority on agricultural issues. That is why, despite your good will, you missed your appointment with the agricultural profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u181	Before we put the bill to the vote, I would point out that we devoted seventy-seven hours and eleven minutes of sitting time to this bill, during which we considered 2310 amendments, 207 of which were passed. I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u182	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u183	Following the vote on the bill, I would like to thank the national representative for the quality of the debate and exchange we had during the seventy-seven hours. Despite the disagreements that have not been overcome, the concerns that can persist, we have worked hard, with hope, for a self-proud, innovative and competitive agriculture. I commend those who have engaged with the Government to defend this text, amend it, and transform it. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LaREM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud]] Let me thank Jean-Baptiste Moreau, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, who has done an exceptional job. [[New applause]] I also thank Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. [[Same movements]] Finally, I thank Roland Lescure, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs. [[Smile on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This moment almost looks like the end of a school year: we will leave, you will participate in other debates. We're going to exchange addresses, and promise to write to each other until we find each other. Because we will find ourselves, I guarantee you: we still have things to do about this bill, we can still enrich it. We still have to work for our agriculture, with a view to the trade negotiations that will open next October. The ministers who pass through this fine ministry each follow their own path, but bring their stone to a common edifice: none lacks it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u184	Except Le Foll!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u185	In this we have some continuity. French agriculture is unique:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u187	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...it is the honour of our country and the pride of Europe. We want to continue to defend it, making our farmers proud of themselves and France proud of its agriculture, working in the service of France and the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u188	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u189	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u190	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law on housing, development and digital technology (Nos 846, 971, 881, 942, 944). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion, on the basis of time allocated to the fifty-hour groups. Each group has the following speaking times: for the La République on the move, twelve hours and fifty-five minutes; for the Republican Group, twelve hours and twenty minutes; for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, four hours and five minutes; for the IDU group, Act and Independent, five hours and fifty-five minutes; for the New Left group, five hours and forty-five minutes; for the group La France insoumis, four hours and thirty-five minutes; for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, four hours and thirty minutes. Non-attached Members have one hour's speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u191	Call to order, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u192	Mr Andre Chassaigne has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u193	Reminder of the regulation on the basis of article 55, paragraph 6, for clarification of the date and time of the Government's amendments. Indeed, I would like to know whether its approximately twenty-one amendments, which deal with nine clauses of the bill, were all tabled before the expiry of the filing period for Members, i.e. not later than seven o'clock on Saturday, and without correction after the expiry of that period. Article 55(6) specifies that if amendments have been tabled by the Government or the committee seised on the merits after that period, "additional time shall be allocated to each group [...]", at a rate of 10 minutes per article concerned. This would be extremely interesting for us, since each group would have up to an hour and a half more to be able to discuss this bill, or even more if the committee on the merits had tabled it after the deadline had expired on other sections. I am well aware, Mr Minister for the Cohesion of the Territories, that this would probably not allow you to enter your very beautiful department of Cantal in Auvergne early enough, but we are prepared, if necessary, to prolong the debates to get to the bottom of things.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u195	Mr Chassaigne, after checking the services, it turns out that all the amendments you are referring to were tabled before the deadline. Therefore, there is no additional speaking time allocated to your group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u196	I would like to know whether some of these amendments have been corrected – split in two, for example – later, and whether this would result in additional speaking time being allocated under the relevant Rule. I assume that this case has already occurred or this eventuality studied on the substance, and that the Presidency is in a position to answer me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u197	One of the amendments has indeed been split after the deadline, but by the services and for legal reasons only, and it does not offer you any additional time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u198	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u199	Mr François Pupponi has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u200	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] On the basis of the same article. We would like to know at what time these amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u201	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u202	All right, we're gonna start... and we're even going to last, but if you, the Members of the Republic on the move, could stop your reflections before the debates even begin, that would be good. After two minutes, we already hear reflections!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u203	You can talk, can't you?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u204	I'm not going to take it away. I repeat my question: at what time have they been tabled and are they still being processed, because if this is the case – as I suppose – it gives Members a right of amendment to the same articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u205	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u206	There is confirmation by the services that all the amendments were tabled before the expiry of the deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u207	What time?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u208	If they tell me they've been dropped off in time, I think they can be trusted, but I'll indicate the exact hours. I repeat, if some amendments have been separated into two parts by the services of the House, it is only for legal reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u209	Madam President, when the Government tables amendments after the deadline for Members of Parliament, including at the last minute, it gives Members of Parliament a right of additional amendment to the articles concerned. I only want to know whether, when the Government's amendments are no longer in place but registered, new amendments can be tabled. My question therefore differs from that of President Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u210	I check all this with the services and you will be informed of the exact hours of deposit immediately after the Minister's intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u211	We can't wait to hear it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u212	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u213	Madam President, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the rapporteurs of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and Administration of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you this draft law whose main purpose is to set in motion a comprehensive approach to simplification in the field of housing, planning and digital technology. Yes, I consider, together with Secretary of State Julien Denormandie, that it is an innovation to build a law that does not add additional constraints but that, pragmatically, releases and facilitates. The first feature of this text, compared to all its predecessors, is that it does not add additional standards or constraints. Simplifying was a fundamental objective for us. However, it is not a question of questioning the foundations of our law in these sectors, which are the result of the work of successive majorities, but rather of facilitating and even speeding up the action of those who build, renovate and develop – I am thinking of local authorities, donors, promoters and businesses – in order to bring what is, I am sure, our common goal: the best possible service to our citizens. However, as everyone knows, whether his experience is already old or he has recently begun his mandate, nothing is more complicated than to simplify. Each article, each paragraph, of a legislative or regulatory nature, is defended by its bodyguards, arguments in support. However, societal and technological developments require the law to move, to anticipate, if possible, and to provide flexibility of use on the ground. For nine years as a senator – including as a group chair – the evolution of previous housing laws, either to contribute to it or to oppose it, I realized that each time, in one way or another, the system was further complicated, that when one provision was added, it was always forgotten to remove another. As a result, the magnificent urban code, of which you see a copy on the bench of ministers, now contains more than 2000 pages... In the end, these texts, which often accumulate, pile up to the point of sometimes appearing contradictory between them, cause the worst difficulties for their users, be they communities, legal practitioners or ordinary citizens. It's been too long, ladies and gentlemen, that the accumulation of texts and their uncontrolled proliferation slows down the energies, when they do not discourage them. Local elected officials who have executive functions are aware of the burden of implementing urban planning documents. Having often had the opportunity to intervene in the framework of the latest reforms relating to the planning of the territory, among other things on the law, called NOTRe, on the new territorial organization of the Republic, I was quickly convinced, in the face of the multiplication of schemes, prescriptive or not, and in the light of all the demands made on our communities, that this trend was not the right one, that energy was being thwarted and that construction was being obstructed. Those of you who have completed the creation of a SCOT, of a territorial coherence scheme, will understand me even better than others, as well as those whose projects are blocked by countless recourses – an issue that this bill has as a special feature to tackle firmly, while respecting, of course, the right to appeal. This does not mean that we do not need rules, and in particular to protect our most fragile citizens – hence, for example, the strong provisions that we propose to combat sleep merchants, those designed to improve respect for the environment, those which tend to secure the act of building or those which aim to promote the construction of housing for all, which remains one of the Government's primary objectives. This text is also part of a comprehensive strategy, since it is intended to be linked to devices that are included in two other bills that you have already voted or are currently considering. I am thinking of the liberation of land with the elimination of surplus value in a tense area for the owners transferring their land before the end of 2020, a provision included in the finance bill, but also of the bill for a state serving a trust society – ESSOC – which introduces a considerable change, the transition from the standard of means to the standard of result. When I asked the Higher Council for Construction and Energy Efficiency (SCEEC) to reflect as soon as possible on how to simplify the law by eliminating a large number of standards, I knew that we were moving in the right direction. It is indeed a change of course, a "paradigm shift" as we say today. This text also takes into account the work of the "Consensus Conference". The Speaker of the Senate has indeed hoped that my ministry will work in coordination with both assemblies, and I believe, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, that the work done with the High Assembly's Committee on Economic Affairs has been carried out in good conditions. We have innovated in terms of consultation: work has been carried out upstream between the assemblies, on the basis of the draft bill proposed by the Government, in which we listened to all those involved in the act of building: the users, the inhabitants, the social donors and the builders. This process, which seems to me to be a good way of looking at parliamentary work, has made it possible to identify the most important problems and to move a number of issues forward. This long work of consultation with local elected officials, parliamentarians and administrations, which we have done with Secretary of State Julien Denormandie, has ultimately proved to be positive for everyone. We have heard interesting proposals, other contradictory ones, but we have listened to all the actors, which I believe is indispensable. The bill is now before Parliament in the National Assembly. Mr Lescure, the exchanges in your Committee on Economic Affairs have been both interesting and fruitful. Several hundred amendments tabled by different groups were adopted. Here I want to thank all of you for the quality of these debates – as for their hardness, it is part of democratic life, [[Applause on the benches of the LR, GDR and FI groups, as well as on some benches of the LREM group]] Your House today has more than 3000 amendments before it. I do not consider this number to be a sign of a blockage, but a proof of the interest shown by all groups in the subject we are discussing. In fact, it would have been very wrong if the honourable senator and former group chair, who has used the right of amendment very extensively under all governments, came today to challenge this right and the rules of parliamentary procedure. I am therefore looking forward to a discussion with you. As with committee work, the Secretary of State and I will listen to your assembly, as I believe in parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u215	The bill we are introducing today is structured around four headings corresponding to the four pillars of housing policy that we want to lead. The first objective is to free and facilitate initiatives in the territories: for this purpose, the bill envisages the use of several levers. The first of these is the promotion of ambitious urban planning and revitalization operations, for which new contracting tools will be proposed – I deliberately use the word "tools", because it is not a question of imposing. Among these new contracting tools between the state, the communities and various partners, the partnership development project, or PPP, will, for example, ensure the conversion of a former disused barracks with a view to integrating it into a large renovation project including housing, shops, equipment, services, green spaces and roads. The release of public land will be facilitated by allowing the transfer by the State of the land from its private domain to the signatories of such a PPP. Another tool is the large urban planning operation, or GOU, which will allow derogations from certain rules of the common law of urban planning. The aim is to be effective and to speed up procedures; It is an obligation of results that we are looking for. Simplification of urban planning documents is also necessary. This approach, which is an essential element of simplifying procedures, is already under way, although its completion will still require time and resources. I am also aware of the challenges that communities face in this area. Urban planning permits will therefore be subject to a dematerialised education procedure. The number of parts to be supplied for building permits will be limited, and our fellow citizens will know exactly the list. The aim is to prevent frequent blockages, as well as requests for additional documents intended only to delay projects. This objective is widely shared. Simplification of construction standards is also necessary to enable, for example, the use of new materials, including bio-sourced materials, or the development of so-called "scalable" housing, with a view to finding a better balance between adapting to the needs of society, the cost of construction and the comfort of occupants. I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that we will still have a lot of opportunities to discuss this in the next few days, which is perfectly normal. As far as litigation is concerned – a subject on which I have already spoken on several occasions – an acceleration of their treatment is necessary. It is not healthy for more than 30,000 housing units in our country to be blocked by appeals. This does not mean that the right to a remedy, protected by the Constitution and rooted in our legal tradition, must be reduced, but abusive remedies must be limited and endless procedures avoided. You know that as I do: some files take more than ten years – ten years! – to find a way out, others are even abandoned along the way. We have therefore developed, with the help of the Chancellery, concerted legislative and regulatory measures aimed at speeding up trial time and penalizing abuse more strongly. Our objective is to reduce the average duration of the collective housing procedure from 24 to about 10 months, which should, in some agglomerations, revive the construction of new housing. To do so, we will use some existing mechanisms, such as the "crystalization of means" applied in administrative litigation. It is normal to ask a petitioner to communicate within two months all the documents and means that he or she can provide in support of his or her appeal, rather than allowing him or her the possibility of adding a loophole each year in order to save time and block proceedings. We have done a great deal of work on this issue, which has been the subject of a mission entrusted to a State adviser, Mrs Christine Maugüé, and the result we have achieved seems to me to be a real progress. Another important topic is also addressed in this bill: the transformation of vacant buildings into dwellings, in order to make the best use of the spaces already built but still unused. In this regard, we propose strong and unprecedented measures: a building bonus – in order to push vacant office owners to transform them into housing, which they will not do if they do not find an interest in – the adaptation of standards for short-term processing operations, and, finally, the convergence of safety standards for medium-rise buildings in order to facilitate their long-term transformation. We also propose an extension of the requisition procedure to accommodate vacant premises for more than a year. This is not neutral: this important development is expected. In Île-de-France, several million square metres of office space are now either temporarily or permanently vacant. The requisition will make it possible to usefully mobilize these unused areas for the benefit of the most modest, whose needs remain important. This new provision is in line with the overall strategy that we are implementing through the five-year plan for "housing first", providing for the creation of 50,000 additional places on the quinquennium, i.e. 40,000 in rental intermediation and 10,000 in family pensions. The second pillar of our housing policy is the reform of social housing, the first act of which was the evolution of its financial model decided by the Finance Act for 2018. The bill aims both to strengthen the capacity for production and renovation of social housing and to make the management of this administered sector more efficient. The restructuring of social housing organizations is one aspect of this reform. On this point, I note that, after months of consultation, I was able to sign a convention a few weeks ago with the President of the Union sociale pour l'habitat, Jean-Louis Dumont, which shows that the dialogue has never been broken and that we have advanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u216	I'm not sure he fully agrees with your analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u217	The future will say so, Mr. Member of Parliament. In view of the changes that have taken place at the end of 2017, the economies of scale and the best substantive allocations allowed when a landlord reaches a certain size, the principle that we propose to you through this bill is clear: when a social rental housing organization is not large enough, it must join a group, except in territories where there are few donors. It was not conceivable, in fact, that there could be a department in which an organization operated housing without its head office and did not retain its autonomy at that level. The goal is to achieve the right balance between proximity on one side, and mutualization on the other. The link with the territories is thus guaranteed: it is an essential question for me. I repeat, because the confusion has long been felt, that it is not a question of forcing operators to merge, or of putting an end to the diversity of the organizations of social donors or of making them lose their identity, but only of setting a goal and providing a complete toolbox to achieve it. We will then let organizations act in connection with their territories or shareholders. It is simply a question of leading them to better manage their financing and giving them new levers for action. The discussions in committee, which on this and other points have in my view been constructive, have made it possible to take more account of certain operational aspects and to simplify implementation. I am thinking, for example, of the reality of the situation of the activities of the social donors, and in particular of the local public enterprises, the EPLs, for which appropriate rules have been laid down. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for proposing these improvements. The committee has also adopted amendments to make it possible for the public housing offices of the same public inter-municipal co-operation institution or of the same territorial public establishment to merge, and to respond to a request by chairmen of departmental councils by making possible the creation of public housing offices – OPH – bi-departmental, so as to accompany more proactive movements. Another aspect of the reform of the social donor sector is the simplification of the legal framework applicable to them. In particular, the bill includes new measures to make their management more efficient and competitive. I am thinking of the new measures relating to architectural competitions or the control of public works, in favour of which all social donors, as well as most manufacturers and companies, have expressed themselves very broadly. Simplification of home ownership for HLM tenants has a dual objective: to enable tenants to acquire, where they can and wish, their housing, on the one hand, and to support the construction or renovation of social housing by donors, on the other. I am truly convinced that this is also a pragmatic solution to stabilize the middle classes in certain neighbourhoods where social mix is a strong issue. Meeting the housing needs of our citizens and fostering social mix: this is the third pillar on which our reform is based. Households' expectations for housing have in recent years undergone very important changes: as I have already said, the situation today is not the same as it was ten or twenty years ago. However, the many consultations and movements on the ground that we have made convinced us that the law must evolve in order to respond effectively to these developments. With regard to the social park, the bill proposes first of all to increase the transparency of powers through the generalisation of listing in large agglomerations. It is not a matter of trying social donors – for me to have sat for several years in a departmental public office, I was able to measure the work that was being done there – but to apply more widely a system that has been in place for several years in Paris and Rennes, for example, where it brings full satisfaction. Housing allocation commissions remain sovereign, but they have better tools to identify and prioritize the most sensitive individual situations. Housing applicants better understand where they are positioned and what are the priority cases. The bill also aims to increase the mobility of tenants in the social park by providing for a systematic review of their situation every six years. Social housing must adapt to the changing situation of tenants – for example, the arrival or departure of a child. The subject is not new, but it is becoming more and more dominant. Today, one third of social housing applications are actually requests for transfer from tenants who are already in the social park, but who want larger or smaller housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u218	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u219	This bill provides that the situation of each household will be systematically reviewed every six years in order to provide them with housing that is better suited to their situation or at their request. Perhaps we are not going far enough, but I think it was essential to embark on this. We can see in the field that the subject is very important. We also propose to act on the private park. The bill provides for the creation of the mobility lease. This is not a challenge to the Besson law, it is a one- to ten-month non-renewable rental contract without a security deposit for furnished housing, which will enable the needs of people in mobility, students or workers on a short-term job to be met. It is simply a matter of adapting our legislation to the reality of societal change and drawing the conclusions of the ever-increasing mobility of young people and workers in our country. It also provides for the development of the supply of intermediate housing. In the tense area, local housing programmes will have to set a target for the production of intermediate housing, as there is a lack of affordable housing, which would allow tenants in the social park to leave. It is simply a matter of restoring fluidity and facilitating residential routes, because we need them. On the other hand, we want to promote intergenerational mix, which is increasingly popular, especially co-location in the social park. We will propose, through an amendment that you will have to consider, to extend the co-location for people with disabilities by providing for a more general measure. We also propose to improve existing procedures, for example by better coordinating expulsion and over-indebtedness procedures for co-location. Finally, if it is a subject that is imposed on us by recent technological and societal developments, it is this one: to help the territories better regulate the sometimes problematic activity of furnished tourist rental. We see the difficulties caused by technological developments; They require strong answers. While tourist furnished rental is often very useful in increasing the purchasing power of the French and the attractiveness of our regions, it has, in some cities, an too strong impact on the private rental market, to the detriment of those who seek to house themselves. It's not in Paris that we're going to say the opposite! We therefore propose a sanctions disincentive regime, combined with voluntary regulatory measures, in order to better enforce the rules in force. These measures meet a real need. Fourth and final pillar of this text: improving the living environment of our citizens. This ambition is at the heart of the projects for the cohesion of the territories we aim for and goes far beyond the question of housing alone. The measures contained in the bill aim to accelerate the renovation of the centres of the medium-sized cities, through a single integrative contract, the revitalization of the territories. This is one of the objectives of the "City-City Action" plan, which I had the honour of presenting shortly, and which includes a list of 222 medium-sized cities, spread throughout the national territory. Why did you launch this plan? Because between the metropolises – of which it is not a question of challenging reality or difficulties – we need to strengthen the fabric of the medium-sized cities, whose porosity with the surrounding rural territories is very useful and who need to speed up their development projects and revitalise their centres, which often have a lot of housing and shops vacant. The aim is, without creating a new structure, but through a simple procedure, to facilitate and speed up the projects of local and regional authorities. The aim is not for the state to tell them to do this or that, but for them to have easy-to-use tools, as well as financial means, those that have been directed towards the revitalization of medium-sized cities. In concrete terms, we will strengthen the fight against unworthy housing and sleep merchants in these municipalities by introducing a presumption of income, which will allow for tax prosecution, and by widening and systematizing administrative penalties. I know the interest shown by Mr Little and his colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. We have tried to make useful progress on this issue. Perhaps we have not gone as far as you wish, Mr. Little, but I believe that we are proposing useful and effective measures to combat sleep merchants. I have noted that a number of very interesting amendments have been tabled, which I think will further improve the text on this point. We will also modernize and simplify the law of condominiums, in order to make them more responsive and to combat degraded condominiums, ensuring that they can quickly relocate their occupants to secure housing. This question of degraded condominiums, ladies and gentlemen, is increasingly prevalent in many cities, especially in the metropolitan areas and their periphery, where the situation has become explosive – I use this word for purpose, because that is what we have experienced in recent months. The problem is difficult to solve, because it is a matter of private law. However, we must, and we are working with the Chancellery, move forward on this issue by promoting community action and facilitating public intervention in these condominiums. In many neighbourhoods, it has become a particularly heavy subject. We are aware of this and we are taking action to remedy it. Finally, we propose to apply new energy renovation measures in the tertiary sector in order to combine environmental ambition with technical and economic feasibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the ELAN bill that you are about to discuss is a very clear response to the objective of cohesion in our territories, which is at the heart of the mission entrusted to us by the President of the Republic. With Secretary of State Julien Denormandie, we started from the observation, widely shared on these benches, that new disparities were emerging, with a widening gap between territories that concentrate many assets linked to economic and demographic dynamism and others marked by economic withdrawal, the vacancy of housing and shops and the development of a feeling of abandonment, or of house arrest, to which we, as Republicans, cannot resolve, and this regardless of our sensitivity. This is in any case the reality of the feeling in these territories, and while, as for the cold, the feeling is sometimes stronger than the reality, they still face serious difficulties. It is therefore up to us to provide concrete, useful, flexible and modern responses to the housing needs of our citizens, to release energies, while empowering the actors and helping the most fragile. This is in any case the concern we have had during these months of consultation and dialogue. We have constantly had in mind that the aim is to facilitate the action of those who undertake, those who build and also those who want to improve the living conditions of our fellow citizens, which is the case in local and regional authorities, through the desire to develop their territory. I believe that these objectives are widely shared. There are strong differences, depending on the sensitivities, as regards the means to be used – it is democratic life. Be aware, however, that we have done this work with the aim of facilitating the act of building, simplifying it and thus enabling the development of collective action in favour of housing. I therefore collectively wish us some tough debates – because this is still democratic life and there is much to do – but rich. The characteristic of this assembly is that, as in the Senate, each parliamentary group has...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u220	[[Laughs]] Good ideas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u221	Of course, Mr Cordier – and we have shown you that we are able to retain a number of them – but each parliamentary group has also had representatives in the Government for twenty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u222	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Not us, but it will come!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u223	Yes, you did, Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u224	That was when you were a socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u225	He's amnesia!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u226	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I say well on all benches, Mr.President and former Minister Mélenchon – but I didn't think only of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u227	[[Smile]] That was more than the case of my little person. But the day will come when France Insoumise will form a government: you will then have the opportunity to see the effects of our housing policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u228	If I say that, it is that if the situation is difficult in certain sectors – I am not among those who consider that everything has been going wrong in the country for decades: there are also great successes, potential, will, dynamism, which are to be credited to all political sensitivities – we have all contributed in one way or another to the current situation. This must not be forgotten. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On the eve of this long-awaited debate, but I am sure it is constructive to know that the Government's will is to listen to Parliament, and also to ensure that this excellent bill is passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u229	Mrs Christelle Dubos, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u230	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we are at one of the last steps in the long process of drawing up a text essential for our citizens. This is a follow-up to the broad and exemplary consultation that began in September and to the success of the consensus conference held with our colleagues in the Senate between December and February of this year. These consultations made it possible to involve in the discussion of the text, from the upstream, 20,000 citizen contributions, more than 2500 from professionals in the sector, and all parliamentarians who wished to do so. They were greeted by all. At the end of the bill, it was an ambitious bill, with sixty-five clauses, that was passed to our house in early April. The text was discussed last week in the Committee on Economic Affairs for more than forty hours. I would like to pay tribute here to the quality of the debates in committee. We have had real exchanges on important topics, such as the relevant scale of consolidation of social housing bodies, taking into account the specificities of the territories, social mix, integration of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy or the inclusion of people who are vulnerable or disabled. These contradictory and constructive debates have made it possible to engage in a genuine trans-party reflection on the text that has been proposed to us. The debate has been rich, and it has enriched the bill. In total, no less than 2500 amendments have been discussed, of which more than 400 have been adopted, in order to arrive, I am sure, at a final text that will meet the needs of all. I would like to thank all colleagues, regardless of their political background, who have been involved in the review of this bill and have chosen to work collectively for the benefit of our fellow citizens. It is this spirit that is oriented towards the general interest of the nation that we must constantly seek, and which is the pride of this assembly. My thanks would be incomplete if I did not also express my sincere gratitude to you, Minister, Secretary of State, for the quality of your listening and your explanations on all the parliamentary proposals, and they were numerous. You have shown an openness that has been welcomed by many colleagues, and I would like to stress this today. Thank you. I hope that these favourable arrangements, on both sides, will continue to animate the meeting that begins today with the consideration of the text in open session. I also note that he is still so passionate about the number of amendments that we are about to discuss. I think that's a good thing. I do not wish here to encourage legislative inventiveness when it is not well-founded, but I sincerely believe that the parliamentary debate will be virtuous. Because this text will change the daily lives of millions of French people, because all our fellow citizens aspire to be able to live in good conditions, because dealing with these issues that affect the privacy of everyone naturally raises questions and sometimes fears, opening up these debates in our Assembly will, I hope, make it possible to reassure and appease everyone. My fellow rapporteurs and I, in order to form the greatest possible opinion on this text, have been keen to carry out substantive work and to carry out more than 50 hearings. For my part, I have focused on Titles II and III, on housing and social mix, subjects that are dear to me. It seems to me that the bill provides good answers to a profound demand: that which is based on the reality of increasingly difficult access to housing. At the beginning of the year, the Fondation Abbé Pierre recorded no less than 4 million malhouseurs and 12 million vulnerable people. For these people, who are more vulnerable, the impact is even more dramatic. Housing is, undeniably, an essential factor for social and economic integration: not being able to access it has a serious impact on occupational integration and on all other aspects of life. The middle classes are not spared these difficulties. In the tense areas, where intermediate housing is lacking, they find themselves caught in the vice, "too rich" – let me know – for the social park, "too poor" for the private park. This situation is intolerable. In recent years, some progress has been achieved thanks to a number of successive laws: I am thinking of the law on solidarity and urban renewal – SRU – of 2000, a tool of social mix which works well with regard to the 250 or so municipalities, the Visale guarantee and the measures to secure tenants introduced by the law for access to housing and a renovated urban planning – ALUR – of 2014, or, more recently, the law "Equality and citizenship". The bill before us, however, aims to go further. In order to influence the supply of housing in tense areas, it tends to boost the production of private intermediate housing. These affordable housing units, accessible to the middle classes, need to be further developed. This is a largely sustained and long-awaited measure. It also opens up the possibility of experimenting with the management of rents, in order to keep them at a reasonable level. It was essential that the law should be able to propose a sound legal framework, which would at last allow us to go further than the two unfortunate experiences carried out in Lille and Paris. Nor is the text silent about the abusive practices of renting tourist furniture, often via digital platforms, which, as we know, penalizes the supply of housing in tense areas. It further regulates these practices, establishes a 120-day limit for the rental of the principal residence in certain municipalities and reinforces sanctions against both the landlord and the intermediary. However, the text goes beyond the question of access to housing. It proposes an adaptation of our housing policy to the contemporary changes in our society and the expectations of the French. Because society changes and lifestyles change, it shows inventiveness. For those who are mobile, students or professionals, the bill creates a mobility lease of up to ten months, which will allow them to avoid paying a security deposit, sometimes too heavy, for only a few months. Such a constraint may prove to be a real obstacle to professional mobility. For those who, on the contrary, wish to access the property despite modest income, the text frees sales in the social park, a virtuous circle that will also make it possible to finance the construction. At the same time, in order to recreate mobility in a saturated social park, the bill proposes a flow management and a simplification of the allocation procedures. To those who are settled in the social park and whose lives have changed, either because the children have left, or because the family has grown, it is essential to propose solutions for rehousing. These solutions will now be legion. The situation of separated couples may even be taken into account in the award procedures. These measures respond to real-life situations of our fellow citizens and "reconnect" our housing policy with their daily lives. Finally, this text promotes social mix and solidarity. Thus, it encourages intergenerational co-location between a young person and a senior, a solution that has virtues for everyone. It also opens the co-location in the social park. These new forms of co-location will help to develop self-help. Experienced in the territory by many structures, they are based on observed reality and needs. The text allows them to develop and develop with them, at the same time, formidable, very simple ways to combat the isolation of our elders and the most fragile. This particular attention is all the more crucial in the context of the ageing of our society. The bill also makes it possible to secure rental intermediation, so that owners who wish to do so no longer have any anxiety about making their property available to families in precarious situations. How many owners want to help but do not cross the course for fear of a deterioration of their property? On this subject again, the text allows to lift brakes. Finally, it further develops the provision of vacant premises for emergency accommodation, and allows progress to be made in the implementation of the "housing first" policy, unanimously welcomed and called for, and for which we are so lagging behind our European neighbours. I will conclude with the reorganization of social housing, which, if it has made a lot of ink, is by itself far from summarizing all the potential of the bill, as I have just shown. It is, it is true, the result of the finance bill for 2018. However, this reform was built in conjunction with social donors. The consolidations that the bill facilitates are a natural trend in the social housing sector. This reorganization, which aims to enable donors to find the financial capacity necessary for their investments, is in fact little called into question by them. Because it offers different ways of regrouping, it does not intend to move the decision-making centres away from the tenants of the social park. Because it opens up opportunities for local actors, it will instead allow them to make the best decisions according to the needs of their territory. In short, this bill is deeply balanced. It aspires to be useful to all our compatriots, without opposing them, whether they are tenants or owners, mobile or sedentary. It starts from the life situations of all French people and responds to each other's needs. And if he manages to do it, it's because he was co-built with everyone. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, the stakes are important for our citizens. It seems to me essential that we should be at the meeting and that the quality of the debates in this House be worthy of it. I hope we're up to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u232	I call Mr Lioger, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u233	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mrs and Mr rapporteurs, Mr rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to continue with you the discussion of the ELAN bill. I say "continue" because, obviously, during the preparation of this text, we followed a method: consultation, listening, dialogue. It has been recalled that this bill is indeed the result of a long maturation and exchanges, begun with Minister Jacques Mézard and Secretary of State Julien Denormandie as soon as they were installed at the Hotel de Castries, through a long series of interviews with all the actors in the world of urban planning, housing and digital technology. You referred, dear Christelle, to the consensus conference. For my part, I just want to greet our honourable senators, who are very active in this conference because they have welcomed us there. It was with great pleasure that we worked with, among other things, the Chair of the Senate's Economic Affairs Committee, Ms.Sophie Primas. We have seen that we agree on many points. Some disagreements remain, of course, which we will discuss at a later stage; But I wanted to highlight the very positive effect of this conference and the work we have done with our colleagues in this chamber. It is therefore a considerable work of listening and hearing that has been carried out. Christelle Dubos referred to the 26000 citizen responses to the digital consultation, because this bill, I would like to remind you, is of course addressed to all the actors in housing, but also and especially to all the French for whom, I know, housing is a major concern. For La République en marche, concertation is a trademark. I am of course thinking of the work I have just mentioned, but also of the hearings conducted by Mr Stephanie Do, to whom I wish to pay tribute. In fact, she started to meet all the players in the sector as early as last September. The dialogue will continue in our Chamber. Apparently, it is no longer 3076 amendments that have been tabled on the text, but 2950... Despite this slight decline, we can expect long hours of discussion. As the minister pointed out, this is a sign that this bill is expected and that everyone wants to contribute to it. The spirit behind this text is to help the most fragile, the most isolated. Our vocation, in fact, is to be faithful to our republican motto, which reminds us that equality must be a common goal of every day in order to sustain the national pact. I would like to remind you that even before the passage of the bill, the state came to the aid of 222 communes – or at least selected them – whose city centres are in difficulty. I would also like to point out that we have started working with our colleague Patrick Vignal on this state commitment to renovate the city centres. Mr Vignal is not present in the Chamber today, but next week we will hold a seminar in Metz with all traders at national level to work on these issues and see how the ELAN law can deal with them. In this regard, we have a number of tools that I think will enable rapid and determined action. Christelle Dubos reminded him: a certain incomprehension with social donors is now outdated. We have seen during the hearings that these actors, in essence, are looking forward to getting out of what is at the heart of their traditional profession. We will give them the opportunity to intervene, not only in the construction and management of social housing, but also, for example, in the renovation of the town centres and in the development of them. The officials we interviewed told us that they would like to see their skills expanded. Since they sit alongside the elected representatives on the boards of directors, we know their great skills to intervene in the cities: they will therefore help us, I think, to work on the city centres in difficulty and, more generally, on the city centres or in the cities in need of urban development. With this text, the aim is to facilitate the activity in the construction and renovation of the built park, to restore the necessary confidence to the actors and to accompany the evolutions of society. On the other hand, the aim is also to combat territorial divides, to adapt housing solutions for the poorest and to fluidise the most fragile residential routes. What struck me in this text is its broad spectrum. In fact, this aspect has aroused some criticism, but it is actually a wealth: in university, I would say that it reflects the multidisciplinarity of the text, a Swiss knife that will allow us to intervene, in the first place, on digital. When you want to rent or buy a dwelling, one of the first questions you ask is whether or not fiber is present, whether it is covered by the 4G network and whether it is easy to connect to the Internet: this is true for businesses, but also, in most cases, for individuals. In short, the digital component is important, as is the renovation component. Therefore, the multidisciplinarity of the text has enthralled me: the more we dig and develop it, the more we realize that it will help us to intervene decisively in urban planning. We want to create new opportunities, lift the locks of activity in the construction and renovation of the built park, restore confidence to the actors, fight territorial divides and support a society in motion. We want to empower professionals to be more effective by simplifying procedures and standards – as the minister mentioned earlier – whether in terms of planning, land intervention, urban planning or construction, and better guiding litigation procedures against building permits. At the centre of our ambition is the desire to establish an intense partnership between communities and the state, whose partnership development projects and major urban development operations are an example. This partnership will make it possible to manage hand in hand, collectively, the future liberation of the land that you have mentioned, Minister. I have been able to tell you several times how much we are expected on this issue. For ten or fifteen years, promises have been made, but nothing has been seen coming. That is why we will be very much expected on this essential subject, which, as you said, underlies the fall in the price of land and the possibility of building better and cheaper. As the issue of partnership with communities is at the heart of this bill, we have fully involved communities in the development of the legislation and received a number of rather positive feedback. We also wanted to have professionals as privileged partners – let us not forget them, they are essential – who have actively participated in giving many ideas about building and promoting real estate or business. Often with leverage effects when trying to win back city centres, some parts of the law will support this dynamism. We have also met with certain actors, including the president of the federation of mixed-economy companies, our colleague Jean-Marie Sermier, to discuss the role of the SEMs in planning and construction and their place in these associations that we wish to create to enable HLM companies and social donors in general to be firmly anchored in the territory. Mr Minister, as you said, anchoring on the territory is essential: it must be strengthened. We must have this concern, not only in the law but also in its support, to ensure that social donors and all actors in the world of social housing are firmly rooted. You also referred to the law on the control of public works and its relationship with private works management – MOP. As an assistant to urban planning, I had also heard this desire of the social donors not to dispense with this law but to be able, sometimes, to derogate from it. When I hear the architects say that we are going to lower the quality, it makes me smile: no one can say that the design-realization, which they ensure, most of the time, in private, leads to deterioration of the architectural quality. While discussing with architects, as we did with the president of the National Council of the Architects' Order, we realize that we will be able to rebuild a trust and an opportunity to build ever better and cheaper with architects, who are obviously quality people, indispensable to the development of our general will to build. Even if this is an area that is rather Christelle Dubos', I would like to remind you that we will not touch the SRU law – it has been said but we have to say it again. We have reached a consensus that this law has very positive aspects. Some problems remain at the margin, which are usually addressed by the prefects or even by ministers. It is important to maintain this general framework in order to build social housing. Improve the living environment and the prevention of rental evictions, promote mobility, social but also generational mix, the entire spectrum that this law has already been given. We had already discussed the unworthy habitat with Hubert Wulfranc and Stéphane Little during the debate on their bill. Here too, we will probably have discussions, but the national representation as a whole supports the idea that we must strike very hard against these abominable characters who exploit, almost like slave traders, the population they live in. This bill also contains the basis for a future digital rental lease; the possibility of digitally filing applications for building permits; simplification of administrative deadlines. All this has been largely amended. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, the Secretary of State, and the members of their cabinets, with whom we have worked intensively, including, often, very late in the night, in order to reach this text. This work will continue and I have no doubt that it will be done in the best spirit. I therefore give you an appointment in about a week for the solemn vote on this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u234	The vote is scheduled for 12 June. Mr Raphaël Gérard, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u235	Madam Chair, Mr.Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Chair of the Commission, Mr.Rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, "building faster, better and cheaper," is the intention of this ELAN bill that we will be discussing in the coming days. We all share the fact that there is an urgent need in our country, and especially in our overseas countries, to build housing for those of our fellow citizens who do not have access to it. We will all agree that this poor housing situation has lasted too long. Many of us will also find ourselves on the issues raised by the law, which aims to simplify and facilitate the act of building and to create a new model that is generally more efficient and more concerned with public spending. "More, faster, better and cheaper": we must not lose sight of this desire to build better. It is for this reason that the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has taken up for its opinion provisions relating to two fundamental aspects: the role and place of the architect in the act of building and the assent of the architect of Bâtiments de France, a pillar of the State's heritage policies since the Malraux laws. "Architecture is an expression of culture. This founding cling of the Law of 3 January 1977 on architecture gave rise to a collective awareness of the errors committed in the fifties and fifties, by building quickly and massively, and relying on state engineers who misapproached the precepts of a purely functionalist architecture to produce housing. Should we recall the disastrous consequences of this policy, which we continue to pay the heavy cost of today? A simple visit to some unworked areas of the Paris suburbs is enough to take full measure of the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u236	What unworked neighborhoods?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u237	The objective of these policies, however, was legitimate: to build quickly, very quickly, at the risk of building badly. There was then no malice on the part of the State services or the operators in charge of building. Just an emergency combined with a bad reading of the relationship between architecture and time. Architecture, an art that relates to long time, structures space and, in so doing, our relationship to the city, of which it is the flesh, and to the intimate, of which it is the writing. It is the material and primordial expression of any human society, from the huts of the Neolithic to the skyscrapers of Dubai. Building is not just stacking bricks or pouring concrete. It is to put together, it is to create a coherent urban structure, which makes links, which allows our fellow citizens to appropriate the space in which they live. Let us not forget that the same causes often produce the same effects, let us not repeat the same mistakes. It is futile to dissociate architecture from the act of building. Yet that is what we have been trying to do in our country for decades. This bill contains useful and innovative provisions, which must certainly make it possible to simplify the act of building, but this must not be done at the expense of architectural creation and innovation. I trust, Minister, Secretary of State, that you will not sacrifice this architectural quality on the altar of the "fastest" and the "less expensive". But, in this logic of the long time inherent in architecture, it seems to me important to recall this issue more explicitly. That is the meaning of an amendment by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, which I will defend. As the rapporteur has said, you have conducted numerous interviews and long consultations in order to build this text and to respond in practice to the blockages that are hampering the construction of housing, particularly social housing. This laudable method has made it possible to make many advances in this bill. However, these bilateral exchanges have not led to the emergence of a new model of relations between the players in the sector. I regret this, because the ELAN bill stumbles where the Freedom of Creation, Architecture and Heritage Act – CASL – had stumbled just two years ago. The reasons for this magnification are the same: they are due to this absurd dichotomy between architecture and the act of building, which is a very French specificity. Both texts respond in time, it is obvious, but without providing any substantive answer and repeating the same antagonisms. Therefore, as long as you place yourself in the long time, unique to the architecture, real risks persist: first, a risk of loss of skills of our architects, who see themselves, a little more, kept at a distance from the act of building; Then there is a risk of a general decline in architectural quality, as already seen unanimously, notably through sales operations in future state of completion – VEFA. Because architectural quality is not limited to a pretty facade, it is a complex alchemy nourished by innovation, urban and landscape integration, environmental quality, and attention to detail. Yes, this text is full of useful technical measures, essential even, but it lacks this essential cultural dimension, just as the LCAP law had partly neglected the inseparable economic dimension of architecture. It is still time to give some impetus to this text, and the amendments proposed by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education are in line with this. It is not a question of going back on the progress promised by the text, such as the abolition of the requirement of assistance for social donors. The numerous hearings that I have been able to conduct have shown that this system has reached its limits and is no longer giving real satisfaction to donors or architects. Moreover, during the debates of the LCAP law, the desire to exclude social housing from the scope of the competition by decree was unambiguous. No, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, this is not a question of this, but I have the weakness to think that man is thus made that in the absence of a framework guaranteeing the general interest, by ease or by atavism, he always manages to give priority to his particular interest. And some amendments by interest groups are not made to reassure me. While the framework of the MOP law is certainly obsolete – it dates back to the 1980s, a time when the architecture was rotring on layered paper, whereas today we are in the era of modeling the building's data, the BIM – there is no doubt, despite everything, a third way between this outdated framework and the absence of a framework. You will oppose me that in the absence of the MOP law, it is the common law that applies. Certainly, but it is only necessary to observe the number of often inextricable disputes related to private law transactions to say that, when it comes to public money, it is sometimes good to clarify a little the relationships of responsibility that unite the actors. Today, social housing actors find their economic balance in a very different time relationship from that of private developers. By significantly changing the conditions of this economic balance, we are expounding in a change in the practices of these operators, some of which might be tempted to seek a profit in the shorter term, playing with the provisions introduced here to create a boon effect, and to forget a little the social commitment that must remain the basis of their activity. Architecture is a complex and exciting subject because, at the bottom, today's good architecture will be the heritage of tomorrow. Through it, our daily environment acquires a soul, makes sense: it is this soul, this sense, that we must pass on to our children. This brings me to section 15 of the bill and to this essential component of the heritage code, the assent of the architect of Bâtiments de France. By proposing to derogate from it on two extremely precise points, the text aims, once again, at unlocking particular situations. Our citizens have been waiting too long for access to digital networks, which they often lack. The simple opinion rather than the assent in the case of telecommunications antennas is therefore entirely legitimate. Note that we are in the presence of reversible devices, whose technologies are changing very quickly, and that the urgency of giving digital access to all French people is worth a slight breach of the rule. No, this amendment will not make relay antennas bloom on all the bell towers of France, since the derogation concerns only the surroundings of the monuments. As for the peril orders, I hear the concern of the associations, especially when entire sections of some historic centres, like those of Pointe-à-Pitre or Perpignan, are in poor or very poor condition. I would like to reassure them by reminding them that the peril order is a supervised procedure, controlled from end to end, and offering the guarantees of transparency which must help to avoid drifts. The real risk with regard to Article 15 is, in my view, the willingness shown by some of our colleagues to change its scope. I would like to quote here André Malraux, who stated at this rostrum in 1962: "... nations are no longer only sensitive to masterpieces, they have become so in the presence of their past alone. Here is the decisive point: they have discovered that the soul of this past is not only made of masterpieces, that in architecture an isolated masterpiece risks being a dead masterpiece [...]". It is the very foundation of our heritage policy and of the concept of perimeter in the vicinity of historic monuments. Even though some state officials may have been too zealous or obtuse to the point that elected officials prefer to break the dialogue, should a system that has safeguarded the identity of our villages and towns be undermined? The examples of cases in which a decision that is misunderstood, and perhaps sometimes misunderstood, has been made will be endlessly multiplied. But should we leave the general case in the name of particular cases? Will we be crazy enough to let ourselves be overwhelmed by these particular interests and to damage a system to which we owe the attractiveness of our villages and towns, a system that promotes the general interest? The effect would be disastrous as the President of the Republic received this week at the Elysée the actors in the development of this heritage. Nevertheless, action must be taken, and dialogue must be given its full place. The amendments of the Committee on Cultural Affairs are in line with the aim of greater consultation prior to the opinion of the ABF, by allowing the administrative authority to pre-examine requests for opinions. This provision has many virtues. It gives elected officials the opportunity to act and express their views on the matter; It obliges dialogue by including this new possibility in the law, and establishes a genuine new competence. The creation of an ombudsman, already enshrined in the law, is part of the same initiative. As you have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the bill must be analysed through the prism of these different relationships to time, the long time of architecture and heritage and the short time of the act of building social housing, but without opposing one another – that would be the mistake. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I will conclude with a new quote from André Malraux, to whom we owe so much, who says a lot about the relationship of man to time: "If the Mona Lisa smiles, it is because those who drew her mustaches are dead. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u238	Mrs Sandra Marsaud, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u239	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, rapporteur, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, without a doubt, the ELAN bill has the ambition of a more efficient housing policy, in order to better meet the needs of households in their diversity, and more conducive to sustainable land-use planning. While the wide-ranging consultation with all stakeholders in the housing sector has already enriched the text, its detailed and in-depth consideration by the Assembly is an opportunity to adapt the new provisions as best as possible to the challenges and expected impacts. It is in this sense that I have worked with the members of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning to strengthen the effectiveness and operationality of the proposed measures. I welcome, of course, the other rapporteurs, in substance and for their opinion, as well as those of my colleagues with whom I have had intense discussions in recent months, as well as with the members of the Government, whom I also thank. There is no doubt that, as the subject is vast, we will be able to continue these exchanges afterwards. I welcome the work done by my colleagues, particularly at the last meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the subject, which has improved articles on the fight against the digital divide and facilitated the deployment and maintenance of electronic communications networks, an area in which we know that people's expectations are high. We can also welcome the progress made in this committee by adopting amendments from the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education aimed at improving the dialogue between the architects of Bâtiments de France and the representatives of the territories on the outskirts of historic monuments: this is in line with the revitalization of our dear old centres, to which I particularly wish. The Committee on Sustainable Development has received opinions under Articles 4, 5 and 54 and has received a delegation on the merits under Articles 21 and 55. Following the substantive review of Articles 21 and 55, the objectives of the energy saving trajectory were clarified. They concern final energy consumption and are consistent with the targets set by the national low carbon strategy. Article 21 relates to the individualisation of heating costs. It focuses on collective residential buildings and mixed buildings with a central heating system. It also relaxes the system of excessive cost exemptions and extends to cold networks the obligation to introduce a system of individualisation. The Committee on Sustainable Development, which shared the objective of the article, adopted only two drafting amendments, which were voted on by the Committee on Economic Affairs at its meeting on 18 May – we thank him for that. Article 55, which relaxes the obligation to carry out work to improve energy performance in tertiary buildings and establishes more realistic intermediate objectives, has been subject to more substantial changes. In addition to a series of drafting amendments, the Committee on Sustainable Development adopted several substantive amendments, all of which were adopted at the same meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 18 May. However, I will present a new set of supplementary drafting amendments and substantive amendments to this article, which aim in particular at modulating the objectives of reducing consumption when businesses are in financial difficulty. I now turn to the articles before the Committee on Sustainable Development for its opinion. The committee has tabled a series of amendments to Rule 5 and Rule 54, some of which have been adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs. In particular, I am considering the amendment to section 5 to ask the environmental authority that would submit an environmental assessment project, plan or program after consideration on a case-by-case basis to clarify the specific objectives of that assessment. This, in my view, is an essential step forward from the point of view of the accompanying role of the project promoters assigned to the State services. I am also thinking of the amendments to Article 54 – which establishes the system of land revitalization operations – to promote sustainable development, to define the objectives of these ORTs in order to promote the rehabilitation of urban wastelands and the development of heritage, and to ensure the organisation of a public consultation on the project. Finally, I welcome the adoption of an additional article which extends until 2021 the experiment on the implementation of social water pricing by certain local and regional authorities. However, some of the proposals resulting from the work of the Committee on Sustainable Development could not be adopted; I suggest that we discuss it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u240	Hope makes you live!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u241	I have therefore tabled amendments to Article 54 to change the definition of the objectives of ORTs, to develop consultation by organising a debate before the public institution of intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – before the signing of the Convention and to include in the scope of the Convention the issue of exemption from commercial exploitation. Particularly concerned with the development and development of all our territories, particularly rural territories, I will also propose provisions to supplement the text, which I believe are fully in line with the Government's strategy of promoting the development of all our territories with a view to cohesion. Local housing policies, as a key vehicle for development, must, in my view, be clarified and strengthened. That is the highlight of the chapter that I will propose to you, together with a number of my colleagues, to add. The stakes in housing, but also in housing, are major throughout France. Where housing is considered a product, let us not forget its immediate environment, its living environment: habitat. It is necessary to encourage reflection on these issues and to offer tools everywhere that local actors can grasp, at the service of spatial planning, closer to the ground, as closely as possible to the realities. These tools and devices already exist; I simply propose to adapt the rule a little so that they are better mobilized. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, without focusing more on issues that will be of great concern to us – but it is necessary – I will stress the significance of the contributions of the Committee on Sustainable Development. You will be able to judge, they do not question the provisions of the text, but they specify them in the name of two objectives that are dear to my heart, as to many of us here: efficiency and operationality in the service of sustainable land-use planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u242	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u243	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we are about to spend a few days together to consider a bill that deals with a matter of importance. I have a very unique thought for our colleagues in the Economic Affairs Committee who are starting their second marathon, after the so-called Egalim bill. They have cut down nearly 5000 amendments into two texts; It's a performance, we can recognize it. The Housing, Development and Digital Development Bill has a special place at the beginning of the legislature. It must give the cohesion policies of the territory a new impetus, and the development and housing actors the means to address some of the problems we have been experiencing for too long. I will mention, without exhausting the list, the difficulties of access to an insufficiently renewed and developed social park despite the efforts of the majority of donors and the communities concerned; the lack of a clear and stable policy in favour of housing construction or renovation, on the part of a State which has mainly sedimented rules and standards; the maintenance of some of our fellow citizens in unacceptable situations of unhealthy or unworthy housing, and of a form of impunity for those who benefit from the weaknesses of our right to housing. The urgency of this law is linked to what housing represents, at the crossroads of several phenomena, in the crisis that our country is experiencing. Indeed, the problem of housing makes its effects felt both on society and on the economy and competitiveness. First of all, we must recognize that there is not one reality of housing in our country, but many. Between so-called tense areas and depreciated territories, rural areas and the periphery of cities, between the centres of the metropolises and inaccessible territories, the map of France of housing is diverse. However, most of the time it reflects other crises that affect these territories. Of course, there is this terrible figure, mentioned in the annual report of the Fondation Abbé Pierre: 4 million poorly housed in the country. This social drama is already unacceptable as such, but we must be aware of the infernal mechanics that result from it. Originally, too expensive housing, insufficiently compensated for by too few social housing. The high cost of housing leads to too narrow a living for employees in tense areas, which weighs on the purchasing power of the inhabitants and depresses the local economy. Either households looking for housing are even more compri ble with their resources, thus exposing themselves to the slightest accident of life, or they have to go even further, which creates other problems of spatial planning, transport in particular. Moreover, in areas of high tension, their wage demand is increasing, not to benefit from satisfactory purchasing power but simply to be able to live in. It weighs on the cost of work and, as a result, it is also the competitiveness of our country that is being shaken. Thus, due to the high rent caused by the low supply of housing, the country has an impact on all fronts: employment, transport, urban development. Housing, through its various realities, obsesses the overall situation of the French. It is a dimension that we must keep in mind throughout the reading of the text. These findings are not new, but they further accentuate the sense of decommissioning, or even abandonment, that some of our territories suffer. I would therefore like to commend the work done by the Government in recent months to introduce this bill. Most of the actors who met during the hearings, whether they were members of civil society, such as real estate professionals, social donors, business professionals, or the public sector, such as judges and elected officials, welcomed a text that went in the right direction, encouraging, and met high expectations. I would also like to acknowledge the collaborative work with our colleagues in the Senate through the consensus conference that took place earlier this year. In view of these issues, the Law Commission, which is also the commission of the general administration of the Republic, has decided to take up part of this draft for opinion. I thank all its members and, first of all, its president. Seven clauses out of the sixty-five contained in the bill were submitted to the committee for its consideration. They cover overseas development schemes, the adoption procedure of which should be simplified by order, urban development disputes, which should be streamlined in order to reduce delays and legally secure petitioners without initiating the effective right of recourse, operations to revitalize the territory in the city centre and, finally, the fight against unworthy or unhealthy housing. I will not repeat all the debates that have led our committee. I will focus on these last two subjects, under which the Commission has most completed the Government's project. This is primarily article 54, which has territorial revitalization operations. They are, in a way, the legislative framework of the national "City Action" plan launched last March, which will mobilise €5 billion along the quinquennium. These operations arouse great expectation; Several cities are already mobilizing to implement them quickly once the law has been passed. All the work – I am thinking as much of the work of the CGEDD, the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development, the General Inspectorate of Finance, the IGF and the Marcon report – makes the same observation: while the average cities account for 23% of the population and 26% of the national employment, they are also increasingly losing their attractiveness. The signals are multiple: the departure of the population to the peripheries involved in the deterioration of housing in the city centre and in the decline of economic activity, the departure of certain public services, competition of e-commerce and large areas, inadequate urban planning. To respond to this, it is no longer enough to carry out specific and targeted actions: on the contrary, it is necessary to define a genuine territorial project in the light of local difficulties and to engage in the long term all the actors wishing to participate in it. As such, the Law Committee has adopted various amendments to supplement Article 54 on the creation of a contract for the revitalization of city centres. I would like to testify to the meaning and disposition of the document. The first specifies the conditions under which actors, and in particular private actors likely to provide support or take part in the implementation of a territorial revitalization operation, may be signatories to its Convention. The second provides information to parliamentarians on the implementation and conduct of ORTs carried out in their departments. The third provides for measures for the conversion or rehabilitation of industrial and commercial wasteland within the framework of the ORT. The fourth sets out the conditions under which the right of preemption may be entrusted to a third party operator. The following shall submit the warehouses for preparation and storage of purchases made online to the commercial exploitation authorisation. The sixth extends the possibility for the prefect to suspend, under certain conditions, the registration and examination of commercial facilities in the territory of municipalities participating in or located in the vicinity of such an operation to the drives and e-commerce warehouses – it seems to us important that e-commerce be one of the subjects of our discussions. Finally, another amendment improves planning for the development of commercial supply in urban planning documents. I would also like to highlight our concern to ensure the engineering of the projects that will be the backbone of these ORTs. This is why the Commission wanted to open the statutes of EPARECA – the national public establishment for the development and restructuring of commercial and craft areas – so that its scope of intervention could extend to ORTs. We will return to that during the debates. The provisions of the ELAN bill on the revitalization of old centres and the balance between our territories are part of a more comprehensive policy of the Government. In this connection, I would like to welcome the recent report presented by Jean-Louis Borloo, Living together, living in large, relating to disadvantaged neighbourhoods. The second topic that we have examined is the fight against unworthy habitat and sleep merchants. On this point, the finding is that public actors are unable to cope with the behaviour of certain owners who either refuse to comply with their maintenance obligations or exploit the vulnerability of people in precarious situations to extract exorbitant rents for housing that only have the name. I know that this is very widely – not to say totally – shared on all benches. It is absolutely necessary to legislate because such a reality is unbearable for the Republic. I would like to mention three amendments which we will have the opportunity to discuss again in this House. The first is to systematize the imposition of penalties for confiscation of usufruct or full ownership of goods used by sleep merchants and the prohibition on the acquisition of property for five years, unless the judge decides otherwise in the light of the circumstances of the offence. The point here is to reverse the logic: the judge will have to question the relevance of partial or total confiscation, the only real way to strike the purse of sleep merchants. The second objective is to prevent these same sleepers from acquiring new goods by tender. There is nothing more shocking than to see these people using these sales – often caused by the difficulties experienced by the original owners – to expand their odious activity. The third, finally, extends the possibility of expropriating the owners who did not carry out the work prescribed by the prefect within the prescribed time limit to situations of unsanitary unsanitaryness, and of better regulating the amount of compensation paid. This project must give the Republic the means to effectively and definitively combat these criminal activities. I would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, with whom we have carried out important work during the study of the text in the various committees seized. It is the result of a process of reflection, discussion and co-construction. From the finance bill to this general discussion, through the consensus conference, we have been able to contribute to the enrichment of this new housing philosophy. I am pleased to have been able to contribute to these different deadlines. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In view of the bill that is before us today in this House, I can only be proud of the work that has been done and confident in our further debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u244	I call Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, on behalf of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u245	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this bill on housing, development and digital development contained sixty-five articles. After a remarkable work in committee, it almost doubled in volume. The young delegation to local authorities and decentralization decided to consult six of them. They concern, on the one hand, the simplification and clarification of urban planning documents and, on the other hand, a new single integrative contract, the requalification of territories, which aims to address the various issues of local development – mobility, services, housing, economic development – with regard to the revitalization of the centres of the medium-sized cities. In general, I consider that this text contains a series of new tools and welcome simplifications. However, some of its provisions, which are not within the scope of the referral, operate divestitures of mayors for the benefit of the Presidents of EPCI, who must call our vigilance. This is the case with the transfer to the President of the EPCI of the licensing authority provided for in Article 1 for major urban planning operations. Similarly, with regard to the fight against unworthy housing, article 58 provides that the provisions relating to the transfer of police powers for combating unworthy housing to the presidents of the EPCI with own taxation, competent in the field of housing, may be amended by order. In my view, the balance within the communal bloc must be more a result of territorial intelligence than of systematic transfers decided by law without taking into account the diversity of local situations. I come to the items that are the subject of the referral. Articles 12 and 14 to 17, first of all, give more flexibility to urban planning operations by allowing mayors to take responsibility and taking into account, where appropriate, the views of the architects of Bâtiments de France. I propose three amendments in this first block. Article 12: Increase from one to two years the time limit for a municipality to regularize its LRP after a cancellation. In section 16, maintain the provision that the mayor may request that an internal plan of the collective housing project be attached to the building permit application file or to the pre-declaration. In Article 17, I had defended an amendment in committee to draw attention to the obligation for the municipalities and EPCI to put in place the electronic referral of applications for urban planning authorisations as from 8 November 2018. This obligation will result in new operating expenses for communities that have not been budgeted for 2018. Mr Jacques Mézard, having committed himself in committee to amending the Order-in-Council to this obligation, I have not tabled this amendment again and I thank him for having responded to this concern. In Article 17, again, I propose to set the threshold for the municipalities to have a specific teleprocedure for the receipt and dematerialised instruction of applications for urban planning authorisation from 1 January 2022. Article 54, second part of the delegation's referral, deals with the creation of a new integrative contract to promote the revitalization of city centres: ORT. As you know, the President of the Republic launched, from the first national conference of the territories, the programme "City action" for the revitalization of the city centres over the duration of the term of office – 222 have been identified. Article 54 complements this approach with the territorial revitalization operation in order to simplify the administrative and financial procedures of the communities at inter-municipal level. It removes the threshold for commercial exploitation for commercial projects located in the centres of the cities that are signatories to a land revitalization operation with the State. It empowers the Prefect to suspend, for a maximum period of three years, the registration and examination by the CDACs – departmental commercial development commissions – of an application for commercial authorization in the periphery of the signatory communes in order to examine the impact of the project concerned on the ORT. I propose an amendment to clarify the concept of a main city in the context of an ORT, as well as the following three, more important amendments. An amendment opening the possibility for the mayor or president of the EPCI with own taxation competence in urban planning as well as the mayor of a municipality bordering the settlement municipality of the project to seize the CDAC for such commercial facilities greater than 400 square meters – I would have the opportunity to come back when I comment on my amendments. Such an option already exists in the common law, in article L. 752-4 of the Commercial Code, for municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants and commercial equipment of 300 to 1000 square meters. A second amendment limiting the possibility of suspension of registration and examination of applications for commercial authorisation only to the municipalities bordering the EPCI signatory and not to all the municipalities belonging to a neighbouring EPCI. A third amendment introduces an additional article after Article 54 to allow municipalities and EPCI to decide on an exemption from property tax on built properties and on the assessment of business property for five years for enterprises newly established in town centres which are the subject of a territorial revitalization operation. The aim is to make this mechanism, by its nature optional, more attractive, pending, of course, the Government's proposals under the Finance Act. Finally, outside the scope of the delegation's referral, I have tabled several amendments to section 6 of this bill based on my budget report on the State's real estate assets. Without going back to the land release referred to earlier by the rapporteur, it is a matter of improving the so-called "discount" scheme governed by Article L. 3211-7 of the General Code on the Ownership of Public Persons, in order to avoid the perverse effects denounced by the Court of Auditors in its interim report of 26 October. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The aim of these amendments is, of course, to improve the clarity and effectiveness of the discount scheme, by endorsing the objective of facilitating the construction of social housing. They propose that the concept of a list of goods, which is now obsolete, should be abolished, that the principle of capping the amount of the discount should be based on the own resources of the requesting public authority or institution and on the average price of social housing per square metre within the said community, while taking into account areas of land tension by decree. The effort of the State is our common effort, and we must take it into account! These, ladies and gentlemen, are the elements that I wanted to present to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u246	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u247	The meeting was resumed. Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u248	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I expected many of our colleagues to give the metaphor of momentum. This has not yet been the case, but I am sure that your title will inspire some in the week that opens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u249	That will be the case in the motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u250	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to emphasize that I am the only one who can legitimately do so, because if there is a good place where we find momentum, it is Quebec, where I live. There, it is called a moose and it is obviously the largest of the cervids. So I tried, minister, to find resonances between your bill and that animal, and I didn't find many. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The momentum spends six months a year fighting with its congeners, while you, Minister, Secretary of State, have spent ten months consulting with all the players in the sector. The momentum crushes everything in its path, while you have set a course, if not a consensus, towards at least a bill that everyone today recognizes has been the subject of unprecedented consultation. [[Smile]] The momentum is a lonely one, while you are today, Minister, Secretary of State, one of the most famous pairs in Paris. I don't know if I should call you the Montaigne and La Boétie du logement or the Starsky and Hutch construction, but everyone recognizes that both make the pair and that you are complementary. Both of you have made a very strong contribution to the success of this process. The momentum is lonely, while your bill, I am sure, creates a lot of cohesion, social cohesion, but also territorial cohesion. Finally, the momentum is sedentary, while you, Minister, Secretary of State, are creating mobility, a mobility that we needed, both social and geographical. In the end, I found only one thing in common between the momentum and your bill. The momentum gives the impression of not going very quickly, when it moves, to go, if I may allow this image, a step away from the senator. But when he's on his way, he's swallowing land, he's going fast and he's going far. We close our eyes and when we reopen them, he walked away on the way. I think it's a good picture to describe the process that you started ten months ago and that we're about to complete. I have the impression of repeating the introductory speech of the General Food States, telling you that consultation is a trademark of this government. Since many speakers have pointed out that this consultation was carried out with all the actors, I shall concentrate on the results of this consultation. It's nice to talk, but without concrete results, consultation may seem useless. Among the concrete results of the consultation, I will mention first the mobility lease. This is one of the measures that has come back to you as one of the most appreciated by young people. We are also making the law for young people, and it is the concertation that has enabled us to measure the importance of this issue for all French people. As you said, Minister, the consensus conference, which brought together all stakeholders, was an opportunity to build a consensus on the need to reform social housing – everyone acknowledged it. The rapporteurs did their work and organised fifty-three hearings, which produced 220 amendments – if not a result! Some of them were editorial, but not all of them. Above all, the famous ordinances, which are often described in this Chamber, have been an opportunity for you to polish the text and perfect it. At the end of the day, there are only eight of the 16 original draft ordinances left, because the other eight have entered the hard part of the text, because you have been able to talk about it, discuss it and hear it. The Committee on Economic Affairs has contributed modestly, but effectively, to the quality of dialogue and consultation. Of the 2440 amendments considered, 401 were adopted from all but one of the groups. All the groups took part in the discussions, and the quality that struck me was diversity, both from where I came from and from in style. This is one thing to remember because, in housing too, diversity is a quality that creates value. I believe that the diversity of sources and routes, the diversity of options and opinions that have been expressed in the Economic Committee, have improved the bill. The other committees have also mobilized, as has already been pointed out. We shall now hear our colleague from the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, who has been particularly convincing, since of the thirty-nine amendments tabled by this committee, which had been referred to the substance of two articles, thirty-four were adopted. Our friends in the Committee on Laws and the Committee on Cultural Affairs were a little less convincing, as five of the first amendments were adopted and two of the other amendments were adopted. What struck me especially in this process, Minister, Secretary of State, is the listening that you have been able to show, not hesitant to come back, to relaunch the work and, during the small week that separated the examination of the text in committee and in session, to meet with Members of all sides to polish your text and improve it. We come here with 3000 amendments and a real challenge, that of giving meaning to this text which, sometimes, may seem a bit fragmented and too detailed. In Quebec, it is said that when you look at a forest, you sometimes tend to focus a little too much on trees and forget about the forest as a whole. When I see the 3000 amendments that we have all tabled together, I think there is a small risk that we will concentrate on the bark of the tree, rather than on the forest. My vision of the forest, I will explain it to you in two words, which will speed up our debates and which we will have to bear in mind: cohesion and mobility. Cohesion is the republican promise of unity against division and fragmentation. Cohesion is the compass of our majority. It must be social, but also territorial. And what is better than housing to ensure cohesion, which, unfortunately, we still lack much here? Social cohesion, first of all, because the best weapon against communitarianism, against ghettoization, against identity retreat, is social mix. It is also the cohesion of the territory. From this point of view, it is necessary to maintain the balance of the SRU law, to make the allocation of social housing more transparent, to fight against unworthy housing and to favour mixedness, in both directions – social housing must not become ghettos of the poor but should accommodate people of different social levels. Finally, the cohesion of the territory requires the revitalization of the city centres, the transformation of offices into housing and, of course, digital coverage. Mobility is the second important term. One of the reasons, and perhaps the essential reason why I did what I did a year ago, is to leave everything to join this adventure, is the speech our candidate of the time, who is now our President of the Republic, about house arrest. It cannot be argued that part of the population is excluded from education, from the labour market and, of course, from housing, which is an essential element, including literally, of this house arrest. To introduce mobility in the residential course, you propose to build more, you propose to promote mobility in the HLM park, you propose social and professional mobility with the mobility lease. These will be essential elements of the return of cohesion, but also of social mobility, which we so much need. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Work's just started. The coming week will probably be intense, sometimes a little exhausting, judging by the week that has just passed. I can tell you that there are times when we're all going to be tired; Sometimes even, we'll be a little tense. But let us not forget the tone that characterized all of our debates in committee. Let us not forget that in total we work for the common good. Let us not forget, above all, that this bill was made by everyone, by all actors, and for everyone. Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u251	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u252	Madam Chair, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mr rapporteurs, Mr Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has taken up the opinion of Articles 4, 5, 21, 54 and 55 of this bill, considering that the subjects on which they relate – environmental dialogue, land-use planning and energy transition – were fully within its remit. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Roland Lescure, chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, who shared this analysis by agreeing to delegate to us the substance of the examination of Articles 21 and 55 on individualisation of heating costs and energy efficiency in tertiary buildings. I would also like to thank all the members of the committee he chairs: they have accordingly taken up all the conclusions of the Committee on Sustainable Development on these two articles. I see this as a good illustration of the constructive spirit and dialogue in which we work together and which I welcome. I also welcome the Government's involvement in our work and, of course, the excellent work done by our draftsman, Mrs Sandra Marsaud. On the substance, the approach that guided the work of our committee has been balanced, and I hope that this will be the same in our debates in committee. We have worked to secure environmental dialogue. I know that it can sometimes be experienced as a constraint by planners, but it meets a requirement of our fellow citizens. They legitimately want to be consulted on projects that may have an impact on their living environment and, more broadly, on the environment that is our common good. Taking a little time ahead of a project can often make a lot of money later, as it avoids litigation that can lead to the loss of months or even years. Clarifying the applicable regime and ensuring legal certainty of procedures is in everyone's interest. The development projects carried out by the territories must, as far as possible, be facilitated by the introduction of flexible and adapted tools. Spatial planning must be understood in all its components – housing, commercial planning, equipment, access to mobility, public services – to restore prospects and revitalize fragile territories that fear downgrading. Taking into account their specificities, expectations and needs must be at the heart of our approach. At the same time, we must also pay attention to the quality of the projects: urban sprawl and the artificialisation of the soil are crucial environmental issues that can no longer be overlooked. We are about to discuss, in a few weeks' time, the inclusion in our Constitution of the principle of combating global warming and, I hope, the protection of biodiversity. That is how much Parliament needs to tackle the problem of the ecological transition, which is crucial if we are to meet the challenge we face. This bill offers this opportunity, which we must seize, first of all through the individualization of heating costs. The bill extends the current system to include cold production networks, which is indeed necessary, in legal terms, in relation to our European obligations, but above all in order to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement, we must use all available means. For the sake of pragmatism, Article 21 relaxes the existing system by excluding tertiary buildings and extending the scope of derogations for excessive costs. I understand the approach: to be effective, a measure must also take into account what is technically feasible and economically sustainable, without, however, I insist, relaxing our efforts to combat climate change. It is the same sense of pragmatism that led us, in committee, to strengthen the mechanisms of Article 55. Thanks to this article and its enrichment, we encourage virtuous behaviors and we work on one of the major deposits of energy savings in France: the fleet of tertiary buildings. Finally, a number of amendments to coastal legislation have been adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs. On this point, I call for vigilance: the littoral law is a valuable asset. If there are some practical problems with its application, we must seek solutions, of course, but always with the utmost caution. We know the ravages that have been produced in the past by uncontrolled urbanization in fragile and remarkable natural spaces. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Any amendment to the coastal law must preserve its fundamental principles. We are fortunate to have a natural heritage of invaluable value. I therefore call on everyone to legislate on this subject with the greatest measure and after careful reflection. I have no doubt that our debates in this House will allow us to achieve balanced solutions, in the same constructive spirit as that which prevailed during our debates in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u253	Before I turn to the motion for a preliminary rejection, I will answer Mr. Chassaigne's question on the tabling of Government amendments. More than 3,000 amendments were tabled on this bill and a very large number were tabled in the minutes before the closing time. I indicated that, to the knowledge of the services, no amendments had been tabled out of time. However, as a result of this request, the services carried out a comprehensive search of all the amendments, those already dealt with as in the course of processing. At this stage, it appears that ten Government amendments were tabled within one hour of the deadline. They can therefore be considered as amendments outside the deadline. Under the provisions of Rule 99(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the deadline for tabling amendments is reopened for the articles concerned. Furthermore, since Mr André Chassaigne, chairman of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has asked, in that capacity, for the benefit of the provisions of Rule 55(6) of the Rules of Procedure, an additional ten minutes per group and five minutes for non-attached Members, will be allocated in the discussion of Articles 1, 2, 24, 28 septies, 47 bis, 54 quater, 56 sexies and 62 ter, as well as in the discussion of Amendments Nos 3143 and 3146, laying down additional articles respectively before Article 5 and after Article 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u254	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject it in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u255	Madam Chair, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the rapporteurs, Ms. and Mr. Committee Chairs, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the bill entitled "Developments in Housing, Planning and Digitality". The intention expressed in the explanatory memorandum is to "build more, better and cheaper". On paper, everything seems to stick, but the reality of the terrain is very different. So many homeless and badly housed: 3.5 million in France! It is difficult to stay in our country, to stay well. Territorial divides exist and are likely to worsen as a result of your policy. Minister, Secretary of State, your bill does not meet expectations. He's not up to the stakes. He's disappointing. However, there is the future of peripheral France, the cohesion of the nation and the unity of the Republic. You are the head of a territorial cohesion ministry. What if the announced evolution of the new world was only a step backwards? Despicable owners, out-of-game mayors, forgotten territories... The objectives you set out seem laudable and we agree with them, but it is clear that this project may not meet them. Few measures will address the Government's key priorities in a sustainable manner. Worse, the text only tries to correct the shot after the first five-year measures, which are harmful to the housing sector. The Government has, in fact, seriously undermined the dynamics of housing in France, since its first budget voted at the end of 2017. The finance bill for 2018 contained disastrous measures, such as the quasi-deletion of the accession LPA just maintained two years for old habitat in the relaxed area, the restriction of the Pinel scheme to the only tense areas, the refusal to extend the zero-rate loan – PTZ – beyond 2020 in the relaxed areas. The self-financing capacity of HLMs is weakened while they are the main providers in the territories already neglected by private investors. Block sales fell 19.3% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017. The damage is already being felt. More than the start-ups that reflect the dynamism of the inherent gap between marketing and the work phase, it would be more relevant to look at the indicators of the future. For example, new accommodation bookings are down 10.2 per cent from the first quarter of 2017 – minus 30 per cent in my Greater East region. This figure is even less than 42% for private investors. The decline in the financial quota of the PTZ in the relaxed areas, from 40% to 20%, has already led to a 17% decline in the market for single homes in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017. In the diffuse sector, the decline is even 18.7%. We risk, ladies and gentlemen, a genuine "air hole" in the production of housing by 2020. As a result of the abolition of the LPA accession, most accession candidates will have no choice but to remain tenants. However, the majority did a bad calculation, because it is much more expensive for the state to maintain a household as a tenant, by paying it the LPA for decades, than to encourage it to become a owner, with an LPA accession that will be extinguished once the loan has been repaid. One can even add VAT tax losses on new unfunded housing and transfer rights in the old one. The indicators are red for 2018 with transactions in the existing stock declining and real estate credits also declining. What if the rates increase? You want to build more but the measures you propose lead us on the opposite path. Minister, Secretary of State, after losing the 2017 budget battle, you invited us to the consensus conference on housing, at the initiative of the Senate, in order to defuse the legitimate rogue in the face of the brutality of these measures. In view of the results, I come to believe that we visibly do not have the same notion of "consensus". The French believed in 2017 that the majority would wear another way of doing politics, taking the good ideas from the right and the left, being open to co-construction. The "consensus" conference could be part of this philosophy. Alas! That's not the case. I want to denounce the false appearances of the concertation. Despite all the theatricalization of consensus, reality is different. You have retained very few minority amendments, while some of them seemed interesting to you. Worse, you made it look like you'd be ready to work on them again. Mr. Secretary of State, you told me in committee on 17 May: "My teams will hold working meetings on this subject. I propose that they come back to you to tell you what additions and amendments are to be made to these amendments. You will then be able to repossess them." The weekend of Pentecost must have given you advice, the Jupitian spirit must have blown away. No sound, no image since. Then, last Wednesday, a journalist asks me the following question: "Mr Bazin, what will be your requests to the ministers at tomorrow's meeting"? Surprised, I replied: "What meeting? I wasn't invited, it's probably a majority meeting." She said that Mr. Pupponi and Mr. Pupponi were invited. Surprising, isn't it? The press has since reported on this meeting where the main minority has not been invited. That is the reality: we have been excluded from this reflection. You know, Mr.Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, there are also priority neighbourhoods outside of Île-de-France. Even in Lorraine, in my constituency, like in Tomblaine or Lunéville.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u256	There are also cities on the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u257	I am deeply disappointed, because I had sincerely believed your willingness to work together. Where's the co-construction? Does it have to be understood that it is only done with one side of the Chamber? And what about the treatment of Jean-Louis Borloo, charged by President Macron with a report on the suburbs? After weeks of intense work on a subject he knows well, he makes a report whose quality is welcomed by all, but which the President will then despise. The gap is great between the means and the ambitions displayed. It's a question of whether not all of us would be victims of false advertising. Perhaps the Republic on the move does not have a monopoly on good ideas. Of course, a real effort has been made to remove operational bottlenecks such as the fight against abuse or sleep merchants. But what if the majority were wrong about neighbourhoods and rural areas? The suburbs are still on the map. The text only takes into account the margin of alerts of many stakeholders, such as the association of mayors or the order of architects. Can we build an effective policy without them? Equitable land-use planning requires that no one be excluded, that no one be forgotten. Too bad the consensus was just a facade. The desire to reform social housing is certain, but it can lead to further diverting operators from their primary task of housing those in difficulty. Worse still, it risks taking actors away from the territory because of disconnected thresholds from local realities. What is the case with this unlikely threshold of 15,000 housing units that you impose on HLM organizations to regroup! Ile-de-France is not France! Many call for social mix, which is good, but there is a marker problem. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, we should look at the share of assisted people in the territories, rather than the share of assisted housing that can accommodate unassisted occupants. Thus, the rate of ‘APLisés' among social donors in relaxed areas can be around twice that in some metropolitan areas. The impact of the imposed restructurings can then have far more adverse effects in the relaxed areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u258	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u259	Minister, Secretary of State, you do not take into account the reality of the territories. You sometimes seem disconnected. Don't pretend to "protect and liberate," because your policy will end up the other way around. You're forcing the HPOs to take action to survive. Are they all wise? You invite, in particular, the lenders to sell. Your primary objective is not to allow tenants to become owners, it is good to generate revenue to donors so they can invest, as your measures of the 2018 PLF will result in the destruction of their self-financing capacity. You thus take the risk of creating condominiums in difficulty. There are few candidates for accession, because they do not have the capacity to do so. This is the structural issue that should be your concern. You refuse to adapt the SRU law, which is also a continuation of the previous government. However, the return of the land and the externalities produced should be heard. The accommodation route no longer works. He stops for a lot of HLM. Even more serious, we observe an increasing impoverishment in some neighbourhoods, and sometimes a very disturbing radicalization with the rise of Salafism. Control of the settlement is essential. We need to talk about it. This debate, which is essential for the unity of the nation, cannot be evacuated. It's all connected. President Macron would like young people to be able to leave the neighbourhoods, while the aspiration of many is, on the contrary, to be able to live there better, to prosper there: it is their village, their city. It is our duty, our responsibility, that the Republic should not abandon any parcel of its territory, any neighbourhood, any rural area, any DOM-TOM. To succeed in housing policy, you should not put mayors out of the game. However, your project plans to exclude them by transferring the authority to issue permits to the president of the intercommunality for major urban planning operations; transferring the unworthy housing police to the president of the intercommunity; by generalizing the rating system for assisted housing organisations, which will deprive mayors of the possibility of housing inhabitants of the municipality or of ensuring a real social mix. The mayors, however, are the first guarantors of the social cohesion of their city. Trust them. Respect them. They have the legitimacy to carry out, during their term of office, a project for a territory they know perfectly well. On the contrary, you are choosing a form of recentralisation of development, which could lead to a growing political and legal insecurity of operations and, above all, the deep mal-being of the territories. Expectations were strong. That is why, when the bill is read, there is great disappointment. It contains no impetus for a balanced development of our territory. If there are measures for healthy territories, there is nothing, or so little, for 95% of French territory. There are many forgotten in your bill. This is deeply unfair. Of course, it provides interesting mechanisms to facilitate public transactions in a few territories but without any financial or fiscal means to support the long-awaited private investment. While the revitalization of the city centres will not be possible without private investors, you do not foresee any incentives. The former cantonal capitals are forgotten. Your bill is not up to the stakes, neither in its geographic scope, nor in its financial scope. The promised shock of land supply is ultimately limited and reserved for the very tense areas, which are privileged. While waiting for it, you could have maintained the demand-side measures throughout the country. However, you do not plan to create the conditions for a supply shock in the rest of the territory, which would have made it possible to compensate for the effects of hypermetropolisation. Your project suffers from a lack of operational tools adapted to the development of all territories. Finally, you draw even more a France at several speeds. Of course, the bill is willing to accompany mobility, but it has no new ambition for the millions of French people who already live in housing and would like to renovate it, make it accessible and adapt it to ageing. You have a vision that promotes mobility. But what consideration do you have for those who are faithful to their territory? Not everyone dreams of leaving their commune or neighbourhood to join Paris and become a golden boy in a business bank. There are young French people who dream of returning to their heartland, after their studies, in order to work there and to found a family there. Rooted people deserve just as much respect. They love their territory and they are faithful to it. These French, ladies and gentlemen, are more numerous than the President of the Republic thinks and fortunately! Minister, Secretary of State, you do not refer to single houses or so little. Would they belong to the old world? Yet so many French people live there today, and so many young people dream of living there tomorrow. What future do you imagine for housing in our villages? The law does not provide for incentives for owners to carry out energy renovations of their homes or incentives for private investors to take risks in urban centres suffering from commercial desertification. All territories aspire to a momentum, a dynamic. All territories have the right to righteous housing. All territories hope suitable habitat for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u261	As this bill is a missed opportunity, it will be up to the 2019 Finance Bill to provide the necessary mechanisms to encourage, in depth, not only the construction but also the renovation of housing everywhere and for all. The text focuses a great deal of effort on the restructuring of social housing. I am not sure that it can be described as a housing law, given the place left to the private sector. It looks like a product-free catalog for private owners. Worse, some measures may cause them to worry. In this way, you plan to extend the procedures for requisitions, which is similar to an infringement of property rights. Extending the time limits of the expulsion procedure will also not reassure the owners. The automatic retrieving of the data contained in the leases appears to be intrusive and runs counter to individual freedoms, both the lessor and the lessee. The total digitization of leases will cause some older or less comfortable owners with new technologies, which will hardly encourage them to lease their properties. The centralizing trend of your government is reflected in this bill as a risk of stateization of the rental relationship. The state would like to be a super real estate agent collecting data, with the digital lease. Minister, Secretary of State, the data are already collected by an independent observatory, created by owners and professionals: de CLAMEUR – Know rents and analyse markets in urban and rural areas. Most people don't like stone. President Macron thinks that money only works in stock.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u262	Only finance counts now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u263	All you have to do is mention the IFI. However, by far from being an annuity to be taxed, real estate is first and foremost a value-creating industry that generates tax revenues and non-relocable jobs. The deposit of growth and employment is there: let us not exhaust it, let us exploit it. The great forgotten is the final consumer. What's his point in buying? The press echoed in mid-May the Prime Minister's intention to deflate the transfer rights from 4.5% to 4.7%, which would go down the promises of tax relief and the opposite of the scenarii advocated in Dominique Bur and Alain Richard's report on the reform of local taxation. On the move doesn't pay off real estate taxes. Whether it is taxation or rental operations, the owners are mistreated by this majority who do not go back to the last iniquitous laws. We are witnessing a new denial of the commitments made by candidate Macron, who, however, spoke out against the introduction of the rent framework on November 28, 2016. The experiment, called into question by the administrative courts, has already been carried out in Lille and Paris. This measure is unnecessary, as there is already a rent cap on relocation in the tense areas. It is appropriate to limit yourself to the rent revision index, unless there are special exemptions, otherwise you will not encourage the owners to put their property on the market. Of course, the mobility lease appears to be a step forward for contractual freedom. She is, however, very timid. Minister, Secretary of State, you are not responding to the strong demand for easing the relationship between landlords and tenants. The rent should be adjusted according to the equipment provided. This mobility lease is likely to reach a very low audience and, above all, to convince very few owners, since you refuse the security deposit in case of rental damage. Mr. Secretary of State, you have appealed to the owners, announcing that you are taking strong action. Let me doubt that. You said that there are solutions to remove the owners' reluctance to rent their property. Yes, these solutions exist, but you are not considering using them. However, if the owners do not have confidence, the housing crisis will continue. What if your strategy wasn't the right one? You rely on tense areas where land is expensive and unmobilizable. What if public funds could be better used? Minister, you mentioned "an offer of inadequate housing in medium-sized cities". That's right. But how will you facilitate an offer of housing production in zone C? You want to build more, but not in all the territories! Even the cities chosen in the "City Action" scheme – a mechanism that we welcome – hope for more suitable housing, private housing and social housing. Let us take Lunéville, classified in zone C: this disqualifies it for the Pinel scheme and prohibits accession applicants from benefiting from an effective zero-rate loan of 40% of the financial quota. Again in Lunéville, where, today, the OPH is the main provider of orders – almost 40% – investments are frozen, since the measures taken last autumn on the APLs drastically reduced its capacity for self-financing. How can housing be built under these conditions? This plan "Action coeur de ville" may prove to be very insufficient, as the revitalization of the city centres cannot be decreed. It needs will. It must also be combined with means. The plan "Action coeur de ville" cannot be the alpha and omega of the policy of spatial planning. What is planned for medium-sized cities not included in this plan?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u264	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u265	While the pool is 600 communes, two thirds of them have gone to the trap. The central neighbourhood plan, announced by President Macron at the level of EUR 10 billion, also seems illusory, since the state has only planned to contribute EUR 1 billion to it, with two billion to be contributed by HLM's public limited liability companies and the OPH, which are exsanguous today. The plan, we can all concede it, already has lead in the wing. Major question, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State: what future do you propose to the inhabitants of the peripheral French territories, where three quarters of the French popular categories live? Don't forget those millions of French people who don't live in the hearts of the metropolises, that France and those territories in which the state no longer invests. These millions of French also have the right to access property. They also have the right to renovate their homes and get out of energy poverty. What budgetary and fiscal means do you plan to add words to acts? Your slogan "building more, better and cheaper" seems to be incomplete. I propose another one: "renovate first, use better and develop fairly." You should have encouraged, as a matter of priority, an ambitious mobilisation of the land available in all the territories, which requires a real reform of the land tax, allowing for the wider mobilisation of land, I insist, throughout the territory. We can only worry about this concentration of resources in a few targeted territories. You can tell us, the Government has made a strong political choice, to direct its housing policy to the metropolises. We are challenging this priority. This abandonment of rural areas and suburbs will damage social cohesion, which has already been badly affected. This bill gives the impression, above all, of a State that is continuing to disengage and is reluctant to abandon any policy of land-use planning. In love, the evidence counts. You claim to want to stop the weakening of the city centres, so prove it by fiscally and financially supporting the renovation of the shops and the housing. You are doing the opposite, with the collapse of the funds of the intervention fund for services, crafts and commerce – FISAC.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u266	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u267	I regret the absence of a proactive strategy. Structural issues, such as the cost of downtown implementation, should be addressed. You could modulate state aid according to spatial planning criteria and consider state aid for the maintenance of critical facilities, such as the ticket distributor or the service station. You could modulate the VAT on new housing according to income, to return to the needs of households. Indeed, household purchasing capacity has been seriously weakened by the Government's fiscal policy: here only the decline in the early childhood care benefit for the household that collects two SMICs or the increase in fuel taxes to the detriment of those who need their vehicle to go to work. President Macron has, at least, taken up an idea that we had put forward during the last presidential campaign: the creation of a national agency for the cohesion of the territories. However, this is not enough, because the important thing is to give this agency the necessary resources and, above all, to add a moratorium on the closure of certain public services in neighbourhoods and in rural areas. The emptiness of this draft law on spatial planning is ridiculous! I call for the return of a strategist and regulatory state. The role of the State is to create sustainable conditions to facilitate and encourage economic development throughout France. The role of the State is to take care of the territories that need it. It is up to the Commission not only to avoid overdensification in tense areas, but also to prevent desertification. That is why I call for a vigorous policy to combat territorial divides, which is only possible if we have the means to do so. You don't learn from the past. Your logic leads to favouring the quantity of housing at the expense of its quality, without taking into account the nuisances related to proximity, by concentrating the populations. You do not lead us to the new world but to a return to the crisis of the great sets of the 1970s. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, Secretary of State, you have above all forgotten the essentials: you have forgotten the French, what they expect, their aspiration to happiness, their aspiration to a pleasant environment of life, their aspiration to own their home after a lifetime of labor. The French hope for human-sized constructions, not for concrete construction. Quality of life is important. It is essential to benefit from private outdoor spaces: we all need privacy. Limited surfaces are a brake on starting a family, a brake on a social life due to a limited capacity to accommodate. We should return to the expectations of the French. They regret the concentration of housing, the overdensity to the detriment of the quality of life. Of course, you have announced measures to simplify and reduce standards: they are welcome...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u268	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u269	... but some questions arise, such as limiting the requirement of accessible housing to only 10 per cent of collective buildings, the construction bonus of 30 per cent or the reduction of parking rules in the event of the conversion of offices into dwellings. But then, how will the neighborhood live tomorrow? You will weaken the mayors in their balance of forces by weakening the opinion of the architect of Bâtiments de France. A positive co-construction approach to finding solutions would have been preferable. You miss the opportunity to switch to "urban life project" mode. The unadjusted revision of the coastal law also raises legitimate concerns. The French are committed to heritage, architecture, natural or urban landscapes, the quality of constructions and their harmonious integration into the surrounding environment. The French expect order, tranquillity in their neighbourhoods. You use a lot of words to put the Republic back in the neighborhoods, but words are not enough. In the neighbourhoods, the French have concrete problems: pragmatic solutions must be provided. You don't. Why did you refuse, in committee, to allow donors to use video protection in their common areas in order to combat the illegal occupation of the latter?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u270	Very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u271	However, we must be able to prove the offence of obstruction. We could have helped our law enforcement on this point. Why did you refuse our proposals to combat abusive squatters?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u272	Because they're former socialists!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u273	Because they like squats!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u274	Ladies and gentlemen, we are at risk of an explosion in the suburbs. I say it with the greatest seriousness. Many of our fellow citizens who live there feel abandoned by our Republic and its elites. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] This bill may be a missed opportunity. You could have carried out a popular project to allow housing to evolve for the greatest number of people. The crucial housing issue, completely omitted in your strategy, refers to the financial inability of households to access property, to renovate their housing. With the increase in the cost of future energy, due to the policies you lead, the purchasing power of households will deteriorate further. However, the acquisition or renovation of housing has a positive impact on the entire craft and building sector, and not just on the tense areas. I want to pay tribute here to all the artisans, entrepreneurs and employees of the building industry, who possess essential know-how if we are to succeed in the construction and renovation of our houses. It is our heritage that is at stake. Ladies and gentlemen, France is better than this disappointing bill, without any impetus for housing, development and digital technology. We cannot resolve to ensure that land-use planning remains the poor parent of the Government's public policies. Instead of resolving the territorial divides, this bill is responsible for aggravating them, completely forgetting the relaxed areas that account for 95 per cent of French territory. Instead of considering mayors as legitimate interlocutors to carry out territorial projects, this bill despises them and deprives them of their powers. Instead of comforting and reassuring the owners, which would encourage them to put their vacant assets back on the market, this bill is part of the continuity of Duflot policy with the return of the rent framework. Instead of coming out of the SRU logics that reinforced ghettoization, this bill betrays the abandonment of neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u275	Who offered to pass them to the Kärcher?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u276	Instead of pursuing an ambition for forgotten territories, the Government made no commitment. There is no way in this text. Ladies and gentlemen, when a bill appears so disconnected from the needs of the French, it is our responsibility to reject it and put it back on the job, because we must reform and, above all, act for the equitable development of our territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] Colleagues on all benches, I urge you to vote on this motion to reject this bill beforehand without the momentum long awaited by the French. I invite you to reject this bill without momentum for our forgotten territories of the Republic. Because it does not meet the expectations of the French, because it deals only with the healthy territories, because it sacrifices and endorses the fragility of the social donors, because it does not carry the ambition to facilitate access to property, because it does not provide the means to bring republican order back into the neighbourhoods, because it will sacrifice the quality of life by overdensification, degrading the environment of life, because it does not answer the challenge of adapting to the ageing of the population, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u277	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u278	Mr Bazin, I expected no less.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u279	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u280	Because I have the experience of parliamentary debate, including motions for rejection in advance and motions for referral to committee, and for having often practiced them, as I said earlier, I will not be able to grieve you for having made such a motion. On the other hand, it's not good to caricature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u281	That's not what Mr. Bazin did!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u282	Accepting by essence and experience the expression of all sensitivities, I too could caricature. I won't. Let me, however, make two points. First of all, in terms of housing as on many other issues, the sensitivity you represent has had every opportunity to move forward for ten years, from 2002 to 2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u283	We've moved on with Borloo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u284	Don't blame Mr. Bazin, he's a very young Member of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u285	[[Multiple exclamations to the LR group benches]] Of course, but we are accounting for the balance sheet of his sensitivity... Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to Mr Bazin. If you do not accept the debate, it is not necessary to come to this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u286	We're not talking about yesterday, we're talking about today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u287	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, I have the right to speak about what I want. If your conception of democracy is to interrupt your interlocutor and prevent him from speaking, as you do constantly every time you are there...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u288	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You could tell us about 1968! You were born, I wasn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u289	This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u290	Please, Mr Di Filippo, let the minister speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u291	Mr Di Filippo, be reasonable! What image do you constantly give by your interruptions? Do you think this is the parliamentary method?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u292	What a mediocre argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u293	Accept to hear even what doesn't please you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u294	It's not that I don't like it, it's that it's not a substantive argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u295	I did. Mr. Bazin knows all the esteem I have for him, but in what he said, there are things I didn't like. I take them as they are...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u296	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Then answer on the bottom!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u297	Mr Di Filippo, let the minister speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u298	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Listen, Mr. Di Filippo... do you think we can work under these conditions? We're going to debate for days. You won't make me shut up, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u299	We don't want to silence you! On the contrary, we'll make you talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u300	I've already had an opportunity to answer you. Mr Bazin, I will gradually bring out to you, and with courtesy, as we have been doing since the beginning of our discussions, the excerpts from your excellent presidential programme. You won't be disappointed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u301	More substantive arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u302	Let's be realistic. You mentioned, for example, the construction figures. Over the last 12 months, these figures are positive. In the last quarter, Mr. Bazin, they experienced a decline:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u303	A sharp drop!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u304	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...the number of building permits issued decreased by 1.9%. However, within this 1.9% decline, the number of building permits for collective housing increased by 6.6%. I would like to use the figures – we have all done so – but we must put them in context. You also made the territorial trial: you claimed that the Government would do nothing for neighbourhoods or rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u305	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u306	I'll take the subjects in order. First of all, as I have already had the opportunity to say here and as I said last week before the High Assembly, stop constantly saying that ruralism is going wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u307	Yet she's going very badly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u308	That doesn't make any sense. Rural areas are diverse, and the majority of them are well. There are also territories that, because of the politics of thirty years, are in great difficulty – I am well placed to know it and I have seen it as a parliamentarian of a department that suffers a lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u309	You, too, have been a member of a majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u310	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u311	[[Rites and exclamations]] I'm not done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u312	You won't shut him up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u313	Excuse me, Mr. Minister, I saw you make a gap and I thought you were going to sit down. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u314	Let us be reasonable: rurality is diverse. The same applies to urban areas. You accuse us of not making any provision for rural areas. Now, for a few months now, we have been doing a lot. In the digital field, for example, we have managed to initiate a process...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u315	The local authorities had begun!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u316	Did I do the trial of the local authorities? Let me say something!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u317	I meant you weren't responsible for all the progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, we will have hours and hours to debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u319	We'll have to get back on better bases!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u320	We'll make it, Mr. Di Filippo. I assure you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u321	Ladies and gentlemen, try to respect everyone's statements. We're not in a ping-pong game where the players would swap the ball all the time. Let the Minister speak; You will then take the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u322	Mr Di Filippo, you are unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u323	Ladies and gentlemen, I have all my time. I am not blocked by the scheduled legislative time procedure. May I continue, Madam President?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u324	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u325	Minister, don't let yourself be disassembled!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u326	Thanks to our policy on a number of substantive issues, the effects of which are directly felt throughout the territories, we are moving forward. I'm not saying it's perfect – in politics, you have to be humble – but we're listening to what's going on in communities. Mr Bazin, you accuse me of weakening the power of the mayors. Like you, I'm still elected local and I hear the expressions of elected associations. If we had listened well to the expression of certain associations of elected representatives – I am thinking of the Assembly of the Communities of France, the AdCF, and urban France – we would have been much more proactive, and this also concerns the members of your political sensitivity. I therefore call on you to calm down on this subject: we are trying to have balanced expressions and proposals. In some cases, of course, certain skill developments must be carried out, but we do so in moderation. Mr Bazin, you mentioned Lunéville; You said that the plan "Action Coeur de ville" was a good plan, that you were not against but that it was not going to work. Where am I going to sign the first convention? That's right, in Lunéville.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u327	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u328	And you didn't do it on purpose!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u329	I did not have the feeling that the elected representatives of Lunéville did not want to sign this convention, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u330	[[Smile]] I'll buy you coffee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u331	Since the septennium of President Giscard d'Estaing, no operations had been carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u332	I wasn't born, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u333	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That's not the point! What I am telling you is that no operation for the medium-sized cities had been carried out for forty years and that the Government, sensitive to everything that goes back to the territories, proposes to carry out an operation and to allocate resources to it without recycling finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u334	You didn't make it all up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u335	You can check it out. There have been operations for the city centres, some minor operations, but a concentrated operation...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u336	It's the end of the ANRU!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u337	I'm not talking to you about the ANRU, sir. We have to listen! I'm talking about the middle cities. Some medium-sized cities have priority neighbourhoods: both will be combined. And since you're talking to me about priority neighborhoods, we're going to talk about it. The doubling of the ANRU's appropriations, from 5 to 10 billion euros, is taking place: it is done and it is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u338	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u339	I'm not saying it's enough, but don't tell me nothing's done. We started simplification operations from last Friday's ANRU Board of Directors, so that we could speed up the processing of files and work sites this year. That's the most important thing. Of grace, therefore, do not have a totally negative vision, because it does not correspond to reality. I hear your arguments. This is normal in a political debate and it does not shock me at all, but I ask you very simply to say things as they come out of this text. It can certainly be considered that the latter is insufficient...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u340	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u341	Some say so, but sometimes for completely contradictory reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u342	And the cumulation of contradictions is serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u343	[[Smile]] In this matter, you are a lord.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u344	I claim it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u345	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This motion for rejection belongs to parliamentary practice and it is quite normal that it has been tabled, but of course I ask Members of the majority not to follow it. We have engaged the momentum and will pursue it, Mr Bazin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u346	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, the Republicans have a request for a public vote before me. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the explanations of vote by group. Mrs Lise Magnier, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u347	Dear colleague Bazin, we have listened carefully to your request for the prior rejection of this bill. We have heard your arguments and, even if our group finds itself in some of your concerns, we do not share your willingness to reject this text even before it is examined. Our group wants national representation to examine this bill and debate a text of vital importance, which is expected not only by the housing and digital players, but also and above all by all our citizens. We can't afford to wait any longer. The time has come for the construction and implementation of a real housing policy, both comprehensive and structural, involving, I hope, all the political sensitivities represented here. After months of work and consultation, we finally have the opportunity to improve the housing situation in France on a sustainable basis – in metropolitan France and overseas, in rural and urban areas, in all their diversity, because, as we are all aware, this situation is alas! difficult, unstable and heterogeneous, not to say unequal, and causing many fractures in terms of habitat, transport, employment, health, culture and, of course, public services. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, we will defend a large number of amendments to improve the text, but we will vote against this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u348	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u349	Having heard Mr Bazin explain to us the reasons for the prior rejection he is proposing to us, I must admit that we share a number of his thoughts, particularly with regard to the policy that has been pursued for a year now. That was, dear colleague, the beginning of your speech, in which you referred to the near-deletion of the accession LPA, the measures relating to LPA which deprive donors of their own funds, in particular for new construction projects or rehabilitation work, the restrictive measures of the Pinel scheme, in particular on relaxed areas, and access to the PTZ. In addition to these many reasons, we have heard of the idea – which we have not yet known what it is – of taxing transfer fees for consideration – DMTO – and the question of the mayor's place in social housing. We therefore share these concerns about a break in housing dynamics since the previous mandate. In addition to all this, there are some reasons why our group is pushing for prior rejection, including your desire to build faster – certainly better but, in any case, more. In particular, we are afraid that, as a result, the simplification of certain standards will put some of our fellow citizens, including perhaps the most fragile and the disabled, in difficulty. Above all, we are afraid of a phenomenon of ghettoization. François Pupponi will try to explain to you what might have to be done – I hope we will be listened to – and will present you with a counter-project aimed at avoiding these phenomena of ghettoization in the neighbourhoods of the city. As you said, minister, there are several rural areas. Personally, as an elected candidate for a difficult rural economic and social situation, I feel that, in the end, this project accompanies the phenomenon of metropolization and concentration by adopting provisions which, as you said, aim to build more easily in already tense areas. In the end, it is known that the housing crisis, in all the territories, always depends on a balance between supply and demand. You are causing a shock of supply on tense territories, but another way to take the problem could be to create a shock of demand on relaxed territories like ours. To provoke this shock of demand, perhaps it would be necessary to establish a link between your text and economic measures for the development of rural areas, so that people do not go agglutinate in the cities according to this phenomenon of metropolization. Perhaps we should take the system much more at the bottom to deal with this problem. Some measures concern the treatment of unsanitary habitat and city cores. You're talking about the heart of the city of medium-sized cities, but I don't know what a medium-sized city is, and I'm afraid you won't forget the small towns – those with less than 10,000 inhabitants – that have exactly the same problems: the heart of the city with very built-in habitats, which is not always wanted. These territories must also be helped. On issues of balance and territorial cohesion, our group will therefore vote for the prior rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u350	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u351	In our view, this legislation does not address a variety of problems, including the problem of overcrowded housing. Nor does it address the problem of energy insecurity. It calls into question the 2005 law, which provided for 100 per cent of new housing accessible to persons with disabilities, by referring to living accommodation, which we consider to be a decline. We believe that it puts social housing at risk, and the simplification of standards is questioning us. We therefore consider that this bill does not meet the needs of the population. Therefore, even if we do not agree with the arguments of our colleague from the Republican Group, we are in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u352	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u353	First of all, I observe that the Communist deputies are all, without exception, elected from territories where the 15 million French people mentioned in the Borloo report are located and who, in rural or urban areas, live in relegated and declassified territories of the Republic. As such, we will seize every small step forward – we have done so in the Committee on Economic Affairs and we will do so in this debate – in an attempt to mitigate the blows or improve certain situations. That is why, Mr Bazin, whenever we take place, in committee, or whenever we can be invited to a meeting that could improve the situation, my colleagues and I will respond here. It's a behavioral principle. I also listened to the image of the tree and forest used by President Roland Lescure. I was inspired by this and, in the context of a motion to reject it beforehand – because I noted that we were not asked to vote for Thibault Bazin's speech, but for the motion to reject it in principle – I tried to take my eyes off the tree and look at the forest. I will have the opportunity to explain it in more detail just now, the fundamentals of this law lie in the trajectory of a finance law that challenges some of the advantages that our country has in combating homelessness, such as relying on a mixed economy, with a public leg, which is the HLM sector, and a private leg. These are, in fact, in the face of the housing crisis, assets that do not exist in some countries, which are even more serious than ours. This law, therefore, in its fundamentals, copies economic models that make it worse than we do in this area. It is not the liberal path that it takes that will provide satisfactory responses to the housing crisis, which is primarily a crisis in affordable housing, as it first affects the poor and the young in search of housing. For all these reasons, because of the fundamentals of this law, which we do not agree with in any way, we will, of course, vote on this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u354	Mr Mickaël Nogal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u355	Before I turn to the substance, I would like to pay tribute to my colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs and to the good conduct of the debates that marked the week in which we examined this bill. I obviously associate with my thanks little Stéphane, François Pupponi and the various representatives of the groups that sit here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u356	You could have quoted Mr. Bazin!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u357	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to see that, during this scheduled time that we will be meeting for the consideration of this ELAN bill, we continue to work intelligently and work constructively, as we have been able to do in the Committee on Economic Affairs. On the substance, I would like to point out that, as was said at the outset by all speakers, this law has been the subject of a very broad consultation since the summer of 2017: the ministers opened it to the actors in the sector; The Republic on the move has proposed to its members to mobilize on this issue and to raise the issues on the ground. We have spent hundreds of hours on field hearings to build a pragmatic law that meets the needs of the French. We are not here to make one more law on housing – there were earlier; Some have given results, others less – but to meet the needs of the French. Can we be satisfied that in France there are 4 million mal-housing homes today? No. Can we be satisfied that 2 million French people are still waiting for social housing, sometimes for eight years in Île-de-France – since we were talking about the neighbourhoods and departments of this region? No. Can we satisfy ourselves that young people give up work opportunities because they do not find housing? No. [["No! » on various benches]] Can we accept that there are still grey and white areas in our country? [["No! » on various benches]] Can we accept that French people are not connected to very high speed? Neither! [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You see, you agree with me that this law will meet the needs of the French! It is a concrete law, which brings solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] The La République on the move will of course vote against this motion for a preliminary rejection, and I call on Thibault Bazin to continue with this momentum, because we have begun well and we will certainly be able to find agreements and create spaces for discussion in order to arrive at a text that meets the needs of all the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u358	Mr Alain Ramadier, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u359	Many crucial points are overlooked in this text, while they are at the foundation of equity between territories. Urban renewal in a state of failure, social mix in mourning, sleep merchants, degraded condominiums: all of these topics that first affect the most vulnerable territories, all of which have been discussed in committee, all of which have been the subject of numerous amendments, all rejected. The threshold of 15,000 dwellings therefore risks very concretely leading to a massive destabilization of the HLM offices, to entangle them in purely organizational considerations, far from the territorial public institutions which yet constitute a pole for the stakes of the city's policy – I am thinking in particular of urban renewal, which the Government also claims to revive. What about the role of mayors? You want to attack the sleep merchants, but you refuse everything that would make it possible to define this crime precisely, to punish it as such and to associate the mayors, who suffer the economic and social consequences of the development of this phenomenon with this approach. In the priority neighbourhoods, the pavilion areas are the most affected by sleep merchants, thus running the risk of a loss of attractiveness, which is essential to social mix in the suburbs. However, it is very flexible in our popular communes that we need to promote social mix in the HLM and thus create the conditions for a real residential journey allowing the middle classes to stay in our cities. Today, because of the lack of intermediate housing, the middle classes, too rich for the social stock, too poor to access free market housing, are leaving. The ghetto effect, which is so often referred to when we speak of suburbs, is first of all linked to this subject: the impossibility for the popular classes in social accession to find in our neighborhoods a housing conforming to their standard and their purchasing power. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Where local elected officials should be given more room for manoeuvre, this bill removes them. That the strength of the law revived the fallen hope of the territories, too long excluded, was our wish; This is the heartbeat of any land-use policy worthy of this name; This is all that is lacking in this text. Blind on far too many points essential to territorial cohesion in our country, this text misses its target. I therefore call on you to vote on this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u360	Mrs Isabelle Florennes, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u361	The MODEM and related groups objected to this motion of rejection. This bill is the result of collaborative and co-construction work since the summer of 2017. It responds to the concerns of our citizens and a wide range of stakeholders involved in its development phase; We welcome this. Among the many issues discussed, the facilitation of the act of building, the fluidisation of the residential path of our fellow citizens, an improvement in their living environment and a reorganization of the social housing sector are concerns that this bill wants to address. The housing budget of households is too high, the number of disabled people is constantly increasing, and public expenditure is also increasing, for the result we know. In addition, the need to combat thermal colanders, revitalize our city centres and improve digital coverage across the country are urgent measures provided for in this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] A motion to reject would only refer us to the status quo on all these issues, which should be dealt with urgently. We cannot accept it. That is why we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u362	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u363	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1237.u364	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours forty-five: Further consideration of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
