ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u2	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor to put his question, No. 179, on the security of the RN 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u3	My question is for the Minister of Transport. There are three points that need to be made about the national road between Amiens and Doullens and Arras. Firstly, the creation of the new Hauts-de-France region, at the same time that it has led Amiens to lose its status as regional capital for the benefit of Lille, was accompanied by a displacement of the main decision-making centres and the corresponding human resources. Access to the new regional capital has not been rethought. The low rail service and the recurrent saturation of the A1 motorway mean that it is now easier and faster, from Amiens, to go to Paris than to Lille. Secondly, the State-region plan contract – CPER – for the years 2015 to 2020 provides for roundabouts to be carried out from 2018 at the northern entrance of Amiens. This project, which is currently the subject of a public inquiry, is subject to debate due to insufficient consultation. Thirdly, the Prime Minister announced on 9 January last, on road safety issues, that speed on dual-way and non-physically separated departmental and national roads would be reduced from 90 to 80 kilometres per hour as of 1 July. Nearly eight years after the motorway project was abandoned A 24 intended, in its time, to unload the A1 motorway, this context naturally re-emerged the debate on the section of the RN 25 linking Amiens to Doullens and Arras. As close to EUR 5 million is set to be put into the creation of roundabouts and road developments, the issue of the coherence of planned work, such as the relevance of future and past developments, arises more than ever. The minds are so warmed up that even the president of the departmental council of the Somme called scandalous, in an article of the Courrier Picard of 5 January, the funds committed by his own community for the realization of the first works! The issues in this case are both simple and complex. It's not a question of reopening the A file, but of engrave in the marble, or rather, I should say in the 18 envelope, the drawing of the RN on its Amiens-Doullens-Arras section. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, we are at the midpoint of the State-Region Plan contract for the years 2015 to 2020. Is this not an opportune time to complete the development of RN 25, as all local communities and elected representatives expect, so that it can meet the challenges, particularly in terms of road safety?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u5	Member, your question is to the Minister of Transport, Elizabeth Borne. Unfortunately, she cannot be here today: that is why I am replacing her. You draw the Government's attention to the need for RN 25 facilities between Amiens and Doullen, for reasons of road safety, but also to facilitate the connection between Lille and Amiens. The Department is fully aware of the issue of the development of RN 25 for the territories served. A process of study and consultation was initiated in 2011 and resulted in the development of a planning party presented to local actors in 2013. This planning party consists, initially, and pragmatically in view of the traffic levels observed on the axis, of keeping the RN 25 two-lane while improving the level of safety and reliability of journey times. In particular, it provides for the realization, as a matter of priority, of developments on the so-called crossroads of the Vert-Galant, between the RN 25 and the Route départementale 117, the restructuring of the interchange between the RN 25 and RN 1 north of Amiens, as well as the creation of a niche of overtaking located south of Beauval in the north-south direction. These adjustments are currently included in the State-region plan contract for a total amount of EUR 10 million, of which EUR 8.5 million is borne by the State. The development of the Vert-Galant junction was completed in the autumn of 2017, although some finishing work still needs to be done – and they will be completed soon. The development of the Amiens North Exchange was the subject of a public consultation at the end of 2017, which resulted in a consensus solution. This is an integral part of local urban development projects and the development of active mobility. Studies on the project will continue and its public survey is planned for the end of 2018 and the beginning of 2019. With regard to the overtaking niche south of Beauval, studies are under way and are also expected to lead to a public survey in 2019. The commitments made by the State under the plan contract with the Picardy region concerning RN 25 are therefore all on track and are likely to be fulfilled before the expiry of the current contract. A local reflection is under way on the arrangements to be carried out beyond the operations covered by the current CPER. It should clarify the arrangements to be made, as well as the level of financial participation of the communities. In addition, maintenance and maintenance operations are conducted annually on the NSR 25. In 2018, they are expected to cover pavements in the Beauval crossing and in the section north of Doullens to Warlincourt-lès-Pas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u6	Thank you for closing, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u7	On this type of axis, we fully share the observation made by the Investment Guidance Committee, which has proposed to the Government investment programmes in the field of transport compatible with public resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u8	Mr Thierry Robert, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 174, concerning the facilities classified at La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u9	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. Since the decision of the Council of State of 6 December 2017, many of the authorisation procedures under way for facilities classified for the protection of the environment – ICPE – have been flawed, because they contain an opinion of the environmental authority signed by the Prefect. This is the case, in La Réunion, of the procedure of opening several quarries of extraction of massive rocks, of which is part the site of Bois Blanc, in Saint-Leu. These quarries projects, especially in Saint-Leu, arouse strong opposition, and because of: proximity to schools, mine fire, incessant truck sweeps, protected areas, seaside area, marine reserve, and so on. It was at the request of the Réunion region that the representative of the State made this career project a project of general interest – PIG – even though the first public inquiry had led to a refusal by the investigating commissioners, and the second had been validated with at least seven reservations. The decision of the Council of State of 6 December therefore calls into question the procedure and the prefecture cannot anticipate, either the new opinion of the environmental authority or the opinion of the new commission of inquiry, if the investigation is resumed. In addition to the decision of the Council of State, the Prefect recently decided to maintain the qualification of a project of general interest, when there is already a massive rock quarry, validated by his services, and which can be functional within six months. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, inform us of the position of the State and the Government on this matter? In plain terms, do you support the passage into force of the Prefect despite the decision of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u10	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u11	Member of Parliament, you interviewed Minister of State Nicolas Hulot, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. He couldn't be here this morning, so he asked me to answer you. You have drawn the attention of the Minister of State to the administrative procedure for authorizing the career project of the Bois Blanc site, to the commune of Saint-Leu, dedicated to the supply of materials for the construction of the new coastal road – NRL. You have wished, Mr.Leu, to know his position on the situation of this project of general interest and the future of the procedure for authorizing the quarry of Saint-Leu and the other quarries of massive rocks dedicated to the construction of the NRL. The construction of the new coastal road, declared of public utility by prefectural decree of 7 March 2012, requires at least 19 million tons of materials, including 9 million tons of massive rock. To date, however, there are no massive rock quarrys under way in La Réunion. To enable the project to be carried out on the new coastal road, several potential exploitation sites have been evaluated. The project to open Saint-Leu's quarry proved to be indispensable for the supply of the future construction site. The career project was the subject of a notice from the environmental authority dated August 10, 2016, and then a public inquiry from September 5 to October 6, 2016. The investigation concluded on 10 November 2016 with a favourable opinion of the commission of inquiry, with five reservations and seven recommendations. Based on the petitioner's responses and commitments, the career project received a favourable opinion from the "Careers" training of the departmental commission on nature, landscapes and sites on March 21, 2017. In order to enable the local planning plan – PLU – of the commune of Saint-Leu to be brought into line, the prefect was required to make, on 31 July 2017, a declaration of draft of general interest for the opening and exploitation of the career. This decision is in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 102(1) of the Urban Planning Code. It provides for the development of natural resources and the inclusion of the career project in the planning document of La Réunion's departmental career plan, approved in 2010 and updated on 26 August 2014. As for the decision of the Council of State of 6 December 2017, which calls into question the designation of the prefect of the region as an environmental authority, it creates a significant legal and litigation risk for the decision to be taken after the opinion of the environmental authority of 10 August 2016. Therefore, I inform you that after discussions with the Prefect, the Minister of State has decided to resume the procedure at the stage of the opinion of the environmental authority by asking, as provided for in Article R. 122-6 of the Environmental Code, for the formation of the environmental authority of the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development to decide on this matter. The Commission, which was seized on 9 February, will deliver its opinion within two months. The same applies to Saint-Paul's career project, another operation also dedicated to the construction of the new coastal road. The application file for authorization of the Saint-Leu quarry, together with the opinion of the legally secured environmental authority, will then be incorporated into the public inquiry into the compatibility of the local planning plan of that municipality. Having an opinion from a national body will, we hope, help to objectiveise the debate on this draft.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u12	Mr Thierry Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u13	I have listened carefully, Madam Secretary of State, and some of the information you are giving is wrong. You say, for example, that there is no alternative to obtaining massive rocks. At La Réunion there is another career, the career of Dioré, whose operator has received all the necessary authorizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u14	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u15	But since it was not him who got the market, it was questions of big money and rivalries between companies that blocked the project. There is therefore an alternative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u16	I would like, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you of the logic of these oral question-and-answer sessions without debate. We have six minutes for each question. During these six minutes, the member asks his or her question, the minister answers, and then the member must be given the opportunity to speak briefly. It is therefore up to you, Madam Secretary of State, to make your answer as concise as possible. I have no doubt that you will comply with such a requirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u17	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to put her question, No 176, on the government plan for the Marais Poitevin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u18	My question will be simple and clear: will the state continue or, on the contrary, will it give up its commitment to the Marais Poitevin, which is France's second wet zone, the fourth in Europe, but also a fragile territory, to the particular complexity since it covers three departments and two regions. France was condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Communities in 1999 for failing to comply with the directive on the conservation of wild birds in the Poitevin Marais. As a result of this decision, a government plan financed a number of actions to win back the wet meadows, as well as the Regional Natural Park label. A programme of state territorial interventions – PITE – had been set up, and a public facility for the management of the water and biodiversity of the Poitevin Marsh had been set up. You inherit a situation where, since 2015, the appropriations for this territorial intervention programme have been divided by three – we see today the consequences with a decline in the areas contracted with farmers for the maintenance of the wet meadows. Worse, the 2018 Budget Blue announces the pure and simple shutdown of the PITE at the end of the year. The previous government plan expired in 2013. We have since been battalions to build a new plan with the state. I have discussed the subject with the minister of the ecological and solidarity transition and the Prime Minister's office: is the Government ready to draw up a new government plan for the Marais Poitevin?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u19	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u20	Mrs Delphine Batho, you are questioning Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, but I will reply in his place because unfortunately he cannot be present today. You are asking us the question of the future of the commitments made in favour of the Marais Poitevin, and in particular their financing. As you point out, the Poitevin Marais, France's second largest wetland, has exceptional biodiversity. This biodiversity is also very fragile, as it depends on maintaining grasslands and water supplies and marsh water levels, which are the subject of complex use conflicts with agricultural activity, in a context of climate change and resource pressure. I agree with you that the involvement of the public community must remain important in order to reconcile the different uses present in this remarkable territory, in order to preserve its natural wealth. State investment remains important in the Poitevin Marais, thanks to the presence, since 2011, of the public establishment for the management of water and biodiversity of the Poitevin Marais. This institution has had a contract of objectives and performance since 2016, which specifies the guidelines that the Government has given it, which remain relevant: to promote the expression of biodiversity on the marsh by intervening in water management, and to renew the dialogue between the actors of the territory. Although there is still room for improvement, the results are there: trade-offs between biodiversity issues and agricultural issues have been found to improve water level management, for example, and removals from the marsh water resource have decreased. More generally, you are right, the financial mechanisms that were dedicated to the Poitevin Marais are evolving. An inter-ministerial mission, which the Minister of State has requested, together with Gérald Darmanin, on the various public institutions of the State competent in the fields of water and biodiversity, will examine the issue and identify possible solutions. We hope that the momentum that has been set in motion with the agricultural world, communities and environmental associations on the marsh will continue to serve this jewel of national natural heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u21	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u22	That's not what I was expecting at all. I was hoping, after the various meetings I had with the various ministerial offices, for a more precise and concrete response than this simple reference to the work being done by the General Inspectorate of Finance, which actually deals with another subject, since it concerns the future of public agencies and institutions of the State. I have asked you, on the contrary, about the possibility of taking further steps with the local and regional authorities to bring about a new contract in favour of this territory. I would like to warn you again: we have lost over the last two years 2000 hectares of land contracted with farmers for the maintenance of the wet meadows, which means that all the work done for years, following the European dispute, risks being destroyed today. I hope that the position of the Government will evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u23	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to put her question, No 177, on the financing of substitute deductions by water agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u24	My second question concerns the feeding basin of the Poitevin Marais, that of the Niorta Sèvre, a very vulnerable area in terms of water resources, both in terms of drinking water supply and the preservation of natural environments or the exposure of farms to the recurrence of droughts as a result of the acceleration of global warming. On 23 October, the State decided to authorize a project to create a water reservoir. It is not a question of creating an alternative reserve, but of doubling irrigation capacity. This large-scale project – 60 million euros, including 28 million euros of public money brought by the Loire-Bretagne water agency – was the subject of an unfavourable opinion from the regional health agency. It is also contrary to the Government's circular and instruction of 4 June 2015 on the public financing of this type of work, of which it does not comply with a number of conditions. Finally, it destroys 122 hectares of Natura 2000 areas. For all these reasons, citizens are mobilizing to challenge the project. The Government has set up a national expert unit to evaluate all ongoing projects on the issue of irrigation-related storage. Can the Deux-Sèvres project be suspended pending its conclusions? Furthermore, is the state ready to reconsider its position in order to take into account the opinion of the regional health agency, to bring the project into line with the 2015 Ministerial Instruction and to build a true plan for adapting the Niortan Sèvre basin to global warming? I am not defending the status quo because I am aware that we need to find solutions for farmers, who respect the need to protect the drinking water resource. A number of these detentions threaten the drinking water collection areas associated with the Grenelle de l'environnement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u25	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u26	Madam Member, you have interviewed Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. Following the major drought in many departments in the summer of 2017, concrete actions on the quantitative management of water were presented to the Council of Ministers on 9 August by Nicolas Hulot and Stéphane Travert, Minister of Agriculture and Food. In addition to crisis management, it is essential to address water stress situations in a sustainable manner and to fully involve the territories in water management policy. We're trying to do this. Tools to develop appropriate local quantitative management solutions include land-based projects. Defined by a 2015 instruction, they aim to adopt a balanced management of the water resource, without damaging the quality of the aquatic environment. These projects must be coordinated among all water users. In the face of the impact of climate change on the resource and the difficulties encountered by some of these projects in the agricultural field, a unit of expertise has been opened. Placed under the joint authority of the two ministers, and led by Prefect Pierre-Étienne Bisch, it has the task of examining the projects under way, identifying the difficulties encountered and the solutions that could improve the general arrangements. Its goal is to advance the quality of projects and accelerate the achievement of those that are robust and sustainable. The work of the cell has already begun and it conducts numerous interviews with stakeholders in the various watersheds, including the one questioned here. At the end of this first round of interviews, each project will be the subject of a fact sheet which will describe the brakes and levers identified with recommendations, if any, to resolve the difficulties. This will also be the case for the Deux-Sèvres. In addition, this work will allow lessons to be learned to improve our policies and practices in order to better address climate risk and biodiversity impacts in water resource management.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u27	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u28	The expert unit moved to Les Deux-Sèvres on February 9, and I spent an hour and a half talking to its representatives. All the actors have been able to intervene, but there is nothing clear from these exchanges, nor from your response. While the cell is working, does the project continue or will it be suspended, as long as the cell renders its findings? Let us remember that this project, authorized by the State, is financed by the water agency to the tune of 28 million, while it does not meet the criteria set for public financing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u29	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to put her question, No. 162, concerning the Wipelec site in Romainville.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u30	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. I have been arrested by people in my constituency who, for years now, have been confronted with the silence and inaction of the public authorities on a soil pollution issue. These are residents of the polluted "Wipelec" site located in Romainville, where, according to measurements made by several agencies and agencies, a cocktail of the most detonating lies in the basement: cyanide, heavy metals, volatile halogen organic compounds, hydrocarbons. When I went to one of the residents, I could hear the story of the human dramas that this neighborhood is experiencing: twenty-six deaths from cancers, six of which were in a single family. I have also heard the distress of those citizens who have been neglected by the public authorities, whose services refer to each other as a bullet. It is not acceptable for the State to be so involuntarily and inconsequential in terms of public health. After many letters, a clean-up management plan was finally put in place. Therefore, it was not surprising for local residents to see an increase in pollution in some of them! The reason: a low cost clean-up, which is capped at €1.2 million and does not comply with the recommendations of the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – and the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research – BRGM. However, government services deny any causal link between this increase in pollution and the implementation of the management plan. This is the limit of the polluter-pays principle. However, this case is not isolated: it is estimated that more than 200000 industrial sites are polluted throughout France. Even yesterday, I attended a press conference on this subject which particularly affects the Seine-Saint-Denis, a former industrial territory which has become, for the promoters, the object of all the lusts. As I promised to the local residents concerned, I would therefore like to ask the Minister of State: what the Government intends to do to ensure that the deconcentrated services of the "93" finally meet the legitimate demands of the victims: removals from all the houses, the publication of the results and the implementation of all the measures necessary for a real clean-up of the site and its surroundings?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u31	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u32	Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, cannot be present, he asked me, Madam Member, to answer you. Wipelec ceased its surface treatment activity at the Romainville site in 2006. The presence of chlorinated solvent pollution in soil and groundwater was identified in 2009, and this diagnosis was supplemented in 2012 by indoor air analyses of riparian dwellings. These showed significant concentrations of volatile organic compounds. As a result of these findings, a number of administrative actions were brought against Wipelec, with no compliance from Wipelec. Given the health risk in the surrounding areas, and although the operator, still existing, is responsible for the pollution of the site, the Prefect of Seine-Saint-Denis therefore asked ADEME, in July 2013, to take urgent and urgent action to remedy Wipelec's persistent inaction. ADEME has been involved since that date in order to assess the indoor air quality of the riparian dwellings of the site and, when the reference thresholds are exceeded, to carry out work to improve this quality. So far, fourteen homes have been affected. A family has also been resettled, waiting for a lasting improvement in the situation. ADEME has, of course, initiated procedures against Wipelec to recover the funds committed. In parallel to these actions carried out by the Agency on behalf of the State, the land has changed ownership: a subsidiary company of the Ginkgo investment fund bought them in 2014 and committed itself to redeveloping the site as part of a real estate project. It is this company that is today, in fact, the pilot of the rehabilitation work prescribed by an order of July 2017 against Wipelec. The clean-up work started in 2018 and is expected to be completed in the first half of 2018. Their implementation was monitored by the inspection services of the classified facilities, which found their progress and compliance with the prefectural reclamation order. In the long term, they will contribute to improving indoor air quality in riparian dwellings. From a health point of view, Public Health France began an epidemiological investigation in 2016 which will confirm whether or not there is an abnormal grouping of pathologies around the Wipelec site and a common factor of exposure to these pathologies. Wipelec also operates two other sites, in Pomponne and Meaux, Seine-et-Marne. Pomponne has been out of business since July 2012 and Meaux is still in operation. Many non-compliances with the regulations have been observed for several years and, as you point out, several prefectural orders for emergency measures, injunctions, periodic penalty payments, and cash records were issued against the operator between 2014 and 2017. The activity of the Meaux site was also temporarily suspended in 2017 in order to bring the site into compliance with the regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u33	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u34	In Pomponne, the prefect evacuated the most dangerous waste threatened by the Marne flood at the end of January 2018. This transaction was financed by recording the necessary amount on Wipelec's account. Be assured, Madam Member, that my department's services are following the situation closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u35	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor. Be brief, dear colleague, because the time devoted to this matter has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u36	You have taken care to read the file in detail, but you do not answer the question that arises today: why does the current pollution control policy generate more pollution? Local residents are calling for further action to be taken for all dwellings around the site.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u37	Mr Philippe Folliot has the floor to put his question, No 178, on the motorway link between Castres and Toulouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u38	Madam Secretary of State, the Castres-Mazamet agglomeration is the only agglomeration with more than 100,000 inhabitants at national level without a motorway, a TGV station or an international airport. Such enclavement is deadly for the employment pool, and all the actors in the territory have mobilized to make the motorway project between Castres and Toulouse, announced too long ago, finally a reality. There has been an awareness of local actors. Yesterday, we delivered a letter to the Prime Minister and to the Minister responsible for transport, signed by the presidents of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Agriculture and the Chamber of Trades and Crafts, but also by trade unions and a group of companies in the Via 81 association. It is quite exceptional that all the actors in an employment pool are thus mobilised in favour of its opening up. It was urgent and essential for the Government to continue the projects announced, particularly with regard to the declaration of public utility. The findings of the public utility survey conducted a few months ago are very positive. We met in October with the Minister responsible for transport, who informed us of the Government's interest in this project, which was recently confirmed by the Duron mission, which called the project a priority. In this context, it seems to me important, Madam Secretary of State, that you reassure us on a number of points. Firstly, of the three scenarios envisaged by the Duron Commission, it is clear that the first must be ruled out, since only the second and third guarantee effective de-enclavement by 2022. Secondly, with regard to the declaration of public utility, the itinerary consists of two sections. In December, the Prefect issued a statement of public utility for the Verfeil/A 68 section. We expect the minister to publish another for the second part of the route, which connects Verfeil to Castres. We want to be reassured, because there is an urgent need: it is an imperative need and a necessity for this employment pool. We count on the support of the entire Government, as this long-awaited project by all the actors in the territory must finally become a reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u39	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u40	Mr President, you have asked the Minister responsible for transport, Elizabeth Borne, whom I am replacing today, about the timetable for the motorway link project between Castres and Toulouse. Since the work of the Mobility Commission 21, which had led to the project being placed under the top priorities of the Government's scenario, studies and procedures relating to the project have continued. In particular, the public inquiry prior to the declaration of public utility was conducted at the end of 2016 and the beginning of 2017 and obtained a favourable opinion from the commission of inquiry, with three reservations. You have just recalled the commitments made by Elizabeth Borne with regard to the continuation of the proceedings; They're bound. The prefectural decree declaring of public utility the work of doubling the A 680 strap was signed on 22 December 2017. With regard to the Verfeuil-Castre section, the departments of the Ministry have mobilized to prepare the referral to the Council of State. An important work of study and consultation with local actors was needed in order to remove the reservations made by the commission of inquiry. The referral to the Council of State will be possible in the coming weeks. The Infrastructure Guidance Board submitted its report on 1 February. It considers that the motorway option is necessary, and that the State must contribute an estimated €115 million to the balance grant. It recommends that funding be provided for the continuation of studies and procedures for the initiation of work over the period 2023-2027 for a low funding scenario, and over the period 2018-2022 for medium and high scenarios. Beyond the declaration of public utility, the precise modalities for the continuation of the project will therefore be defined in the context of the decisions that the Government will take following the Committee's proposals and which will be translated into the Mobility Guidance Act. The National Assembly will therefore have the opportunity to discuss with the Minister responsible for transport the projects that are useful to meet the challenges of mobility in the daily lives of citizens, of which you are today the spokesperson.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u41	Mr Philippe Folliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u42	I am pleased with your answer. As I understand it, you are encouraging us to be very active in the Chamber in defending, in the context of the future mobility policy bill, this vital project for our territory. We will be, because the whole...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u43	Thank you, Mr Folliot!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u44	Mr President, I would simply like to associate my colleagues Jean Terlier and Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas with my question. All Tarn MPs unanimously defend this project, because it is important for the territory, the region and the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u45	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor to put her question, No 187, on the motorway interchange between Genlis and Dijon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u46	Madam Secretary of State, my question relates to the realization of a motorway interchange which must link the canton of Genlis to the metropolis of Dijonnaise, via the motorway A 39. This is an old case which, despite the goodwill of the local elected representatives and the local and regional authorities concerned, has never been successful. However, the construction of such an exchanger is essential for the thousands of users who borrow the 905 department every day. This axis between Genlis and Dijon has been overstretched for many years, causing considerable congestion and deterioration of infrastructure. Even more worrying, it is now known to be one of the most accidental in the Côte-d'Or department. Beyond road insecurity, the realization of the interchange would bring real added value to the territory, particularly in economic terms. The development of a cooperative development area between Longeault, Pluvet and Collonges-lès-Premières is planned, rural villages that now need a real territorial dynamic. As you will understand, this exchange project linking Genlis to the regional capital is necessary to improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens, but also to maintain the dynamism of this part of the Dijon plain, particularly in terms of business creation and jobs. Here I should like to pay tribute to the work of the community of communes, which has committed itself to investing 400,000 euros out of the necessary 2 million. For their part, the department should invest 800,000 euros and the region, 900000 – even if these financings are not definitively committed. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the new mobility policy that the Minister responsible for transport wishes to pursue. Can you tell me, Madam Secretary of State, whether the project of the Genlis interchange can be part of the future road clearance plan which the Government intends to programme over the next ten years, and whether new elements emerge from the ongoing discussions between the State and the concessionaire company, the APRR – motorways Paris-Rhin-Rhône?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u47	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u48	Madam Member, you have drawn the attention of the Minister responsible for transport to the connection of the A 39 motorway to the commune of Genlis by creating a new diffuser on the motorway network granted to APRR. Based on the findings of an opportunity study carried out between 2012 and 2016 by this company, in close consultation with the local authorities, the project for the realization of a half-diffuser oriented towards Dijon and connected on the departmental road 116 D was integrated into the draft motorway investment plan – PIA – desired in July 2016 by the President of the Republic and submitted for opinion in spring 2017 to the Authority for the regulation of railway and road activities – ARAFER. Following the publication of these notices in June 2017, the Government conducted a number of additional analyses aimed at clarifying or confirming certain aspects of the IAP. Supported by these analyses, the Government will refer the matter to the Council of State on the basis of an amended plan to draw all the consequences of the ARAFER recommendations. The Minister responsible for transport would like to point out that the new Genlis interchange is part of the draft motorway investment plan, provided, of course, that the Council of State confirms the principle of its implementation and its method of financing. This is based in particular on the assumption that 50% of the total cost of the half-diffuser project will be co-financed by the departmental council and the community of communes in the Dijon region, and on full funding by the local authorities of the 905 district road connection bar. After obtaining the opinion of the Council of State, the start of the operation therefore implies that a financing agreement between the concessionaire and the local authorities confirms the contribution of the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u49	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u50	I see the file isn't buried, and I'm glad. However, I count, of course, on public power and the state. It is important to continue the negotiations. There is now a territorial divide in the territory concerned between a large, very dynamic metropolis, which captures wealth, and municipalities which are more distant from it. A better balance must be achieved and rural areas must be economically developed, which means building infrastructure that meets the expectations of citizens. Some companies have already committed themselves to establishing themselves, provided they can benefit from the infrastructure expected. So I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u51	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to raise her question, No 166, on road and rail infrastructure in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u52	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to remind you today that some rural areas of our country suffer from a lack of infrastructure. Whether it is roads or trains, the population of my constituency feels abandoned by the state. In Haut-Doubs, a border and dynamic area, although the RN 57 is of international, national and local interest, the fluidity of this link is no longer ensured because of the very large traffic of frontier workers, tourists and heavy goods vehicles, which leads to heavy traffic every day, especially at the southern entrance of the city of Pontarlier. With the help of local elected representatives, the State is now examining the possibilities of crossing Pontarlier. However, further work is needed on this axis, notably on the La Main-La Vrine section and the descent of the Tavins to Jougne. That is why, Madam Secretary of State, it is becoming urgent to include in the next State-Region Plan contract work on these portions. With regard to rail transport on the same territory and the use of the Lyria TGV from Frasne station, many users have told me of the difficulties they encounter in booking, even several months in advance, the transport company indicating that the trains are complete, although they are not. Lyria claims that, as an international carrier, it is subjecting its trains to a quota. As a result, in case of high French demand on the Paris-Lausanne line, the train can display complete in French stations up to the Swiss border and display available seats on the international quota, after the border. Madam Secretary of State, I would like you to look at this problem: I cannot imagine that Frasne station, which is used daily by almost 200 passengers, is the adjustment variable of this line. In a country where many efforts are being made to promote public transport, especially rail, it is a shame to speak quotaly. So I would be very grateful if you would start discussions with SNCF and Lyria to strengthen the transport offer on the Paris-Lausanne line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u53	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u54	The question of mobility in rural areas, which, unfortunately, sometimes lacks transport and transport services, is a priority of the Government. Indeed, the challenge for these territories is often to get out of the trap of people for whom mobility has become a handicap rather than an opportunity. That is why the Government organized the Mobility Assembly last autumn. It is also for this reason that he will propose a mobility policy bill next spring. It is Mrs Borne, the Minister responsible for transport, for whom I am replying today, who will be responsible for defending him. Thus, be assured that, within the framework of the national mobility strategy presented by the Minister responsible for transport, the Government will ensure that the necessary levers are used to develop mobility solutions adapted to all territories. With regard to the unlicensed national road network serving rural areas, we share the observation made by the Infrastructure Guidance Council, which recently delivered its conclusions. The aim will be to substantially increase the resources devoted to the axes serving medium-sized towns and rural areas. The aim is to speed up the implementation of traffic-appropriate arrangements in order to bring about rapid improvements, on the one hand to users in terms of the reliability of journey times and road safety, on the other hand to residents in terms of quality of life. With regard to railway programmes, the Minister of Transport has had the opportunity to recall this on several occasions, the various investment programmes will be proposed by the Government, after analysis of the conclusions and proposals of the Infrastructure Guidance Board, and translated into the Programming Act. The final decision will therefore be taken by Parliament. The aim will be to propose investment programmes compatible with public resources and to define a sustainable financial path, while meeting the needs of French people for travel, according to four main objectives: to improve the quality of service of the networks, to ensure their sustainability and to modernise them; combat road congestion and pollution in cities by developing transport performance; reduce territorial inequalities by ensuring better access for medium-sized cities and rural areas while taking into account the specific needs of the overseas countries and territories; Finally, to develop efficient infrastructure and freight services for the economy. You will therefore have the opportunity, Madam Member, to be fully involved in this work, which aims at opening up the rural areas that need it by developing mobility there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u55	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u56	Madam Secretary of State, you are giving us vague answers. The exercise of oral questions without debate, as you know, is dedicated to local problems. I raised two of them. I first asked you about the investments to be made on a national road, which therefore depends on the state, because of massive congestion. I would like to make it clear that this is a mountain area, which adds to the specific nature of the question of mobility. I remind you that a massif that is not irrigated by infrastructure is bypassed. It is therefore the whole development of this part of the Jura massif. I then asked you about the international line of the TGV Lyria, managed by a company in which SNCF has interests. Madam Secretary of State, this exercise, I repeat, is planned to raise local questions requiring specific answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u58	From this point of view, I must confess my disappointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u59	The next speaker is Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, to put his question, No 191, concerning the development of the RN 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u60	I would like to refer to the department of the Lozère, of which I am the only representative – I am proud – and which, for years, has been fighting for the setting up of two lanes of the RN 88, national road link that goes from Lyon to Toulouse by crossing the Lozère and Aveyron. The CIAT – the interdepartmental committee for spatial planning – of 1993, which had taken place in Lozère – the entire Government had moved there – had considered this national road to be of community interest. Since 1997, nothing has been done outside the Romardies viaduct which connects the A75 motorway to the Lot Valley. The bypass of Mende was not carried out, nor that of Langogne, which is the last town of Lozère in the direction of Puy-en-Velay. Some works are carried out in Haute-Loire, as well as between Rodez and Albi, but none between Rodez and A 75 nor in Lozère. However, the Lozère does not benefit from high-quality infrastructure, particularly a lack of rail infrastructure, which is a major difficulty, and it has only a small aerodrome. The only transport device to allow it to be irrigated is therefore the A 75 coming from Clermont-Ferrand and heading for Pézenas and the RN 88, which crosses the department. What does the road management, at the national level, want to do with the RN 88? Jacques Blanc on the regional council, and myself as the chief of staff, we fought a lot against a road management which was not very favourable to the consideration of this path. My question is simple: does political will exist or should it not be appropriate to put an end to hypocrisy? What about the development of the RN 88 today?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u61	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u62	Mr President, you have asked the Minister responsible for transport about the intentions of the state with regard to the development of the RN 88: I will give you her answer, since unfortunately she cannot be present this morning. The Government is fully aware of the stakes involved in the development of RN 88 for the territories served. Two operations considered as priority were included in the State-region plan contract of the Languedoc-Roussillon region: the western ring road of Mende for 30 million euros, financed half by the State, and the deviation of Langogne for which the envelope of 4 million euros fully borne by the State allows to carry out the studies and the acquisitions of land. Both operations are proceeding under this contract. With regard to Mende's western ring road, EUR 15 million of commitment authorisations, half of which was provided by the State, could be programmed in 2017, despite a very constrained budgetary context. The first phase of the work will begin in September 2018. This first part of the operation consists of making the work of art above the Lot. In 2018, 600,000 euros of additional appropriations were programmed to finance the latest land acquisitions and compensatory environmental measures. Mende's west ring road could be put into service by 2021. With regard to Langogne's deviation, the additional studies initiated after the ministerial order of September 2016 confirmed the appropriateness of this development. The preliminary studies will be completed in the summer of 2018, so this year. The public inquiry may take place in 2019 after the inter-service consultations. RN 88 provides services to medium-sized towns and rural areas. As Élisabeth Borne has already announced, the Government wishes to substantially increase the resources devoted to the axes serving medium-sized cities and rural territories – I stressed, in my answer to the previous question, that this is a priority of the Government. The Infrastructural Guidance Council has also made proposals to this end. The amount of funding for this programme will be determined in the context of decisions taken by the Government following the Committee's proposals, which will be reflected in the mobility policy bill. You will therefore have the opportunity to discuss here with the Minister responsible for transport projects that are useful in responding to the challenges of rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u63	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u64	Thank you for your answer. I'll just remind you that the studies on Langogne have been going on for six years. In addition, what kind of studies are they? Do they concern the circumvention of Langogne and Pradelles in Haute-Loire or only the circumvention of Langogne? The question of the Mende ring road, for its part, does not directly concern RN 88. The purpose of this ringing is to bypass Mende to join RN 88. I would ask you to convey to the Minister responsible for transportation our strong commitment to the development of RN 88. We would like to know the will of the State on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u65	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to speak on Question No 163 by Mr Eric Coquerel on the implementation of the Grand Paris Express project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u66	Mr. Éric Coquerel's question is addressed to the Minister responsible for transport. The Court of Auditors has recently sounded the alarm about the Société du Grand Paris. The company, which is responsible for implementing the Grand Paris Express and its 200 kilometres of additional metro lines, has committed itself to ensuring that the entire network is in service in 2030 with the opening of the lines in 2019. The Court of Auditors' report on the Société du Grand Paris, published last January, is alarming three aspects that make the inhabitants of the small Parisian crown and the elected representatives fear the worst: a significant drift in costs, a timetable that will not be kept and a more or less dubious governance. In terms of costs, the estimated total project-related expenditure has been steadily increasing from $22 billion in 2010 to $38.5 billion in 2017, an increase of 75%. In view of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, the Société du Grand Paris decided to give priority to the time targets over the control of costs. And, although the OCOG – the organizing committee for the Olympic Games – has guaranteed us that the budget will not be exceeded, we can see that the prospect of the games indirectly worsens public spending. With regard to the deadlines, the Government confirmed on 26 January that the timetable would not be met, while ensuring that the lines would be well constructed. Either, but we still don't have clear dates for putting these lines into service. Finally, to top it all off, the local elected representatives making up the supervisory board were not informed of the drift in costs, whereas, according to the report, the Société du Grand Paris had had some information on this point for several months. This is the result of the understaffing of the Société du Grand Paris, which is forced to call on private providers who prepare technical files without concern for cost control. The question is simple: what is the transport minister planning to follow in order, on the one hand, to resize the Grand Paris Express project by controlling the costs of the juicy contracts of the building giants and public works such as Vinci, Bouygues and Eiffage and, on the other hand, to reform governance by including parliamentarians on a national subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u67	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u68	Madam Member, you have asked the Minister responsible for transport, whom I represent this morning, about the financial situation of the Société du Grand Paris and the implementation of the Grand Paris Express, in particular following the Court of Auditors' recent report on the subject. First of all, I confirm to you that this project, indispensable for the development and attractiveness of Île-de-France, will be carried out in its entirety. It is intended to improve the services and transport of the daily life of the Francilians, to which the Government is particularly attached, as you know, the deputy. It is not exclusive to other parallel projects in Île-de-France – I am thinking for example of the Éole project, the extension of the 11 metro line, the construction of the 11 Express line of the tramway or the RER master plans. If the Government intends to deal with all the challenges encountered in the Greater Paris area, it wishes to do so with sincerity and transparency vis-à-vis all the actors concerned, that is, without concealing the technical, human and financial realities that it faces in order to carry out this project, which you, Madam Member, will agree with the exceptional nature. In particular, the technical complexity of the project requires an objective validation of the risks with regard to the time and costs of the different lines; We must commit ourselves to robust and realistic delivery times. I think, honourable Member, that you agree with this method, which is sincere, transparent and realistic. This reassessment, linked in particular to the consideration of now better identified geotechnical constraints, is indeed an element that led the Government to reflect on a rescheduling of the timetable of the various sections. We are therefore confronted with certain technical realities. The question of the long-term economic sustainability of the project and the adequacy of the human resources of the Société du Grand Paris must also be examined. These are important issues that we are looking at. To this end, a working group was set up under the auspices of Member of Parliament Gilles Carrez and is expected to deliver its conclusions in the summer of 2018. Finally, the public works companies you have mentioned and working on this project will receive the sums agreed to in contracts awarded after competitive bidding, in the framework of open, transparent and legal tenders, in compliance with all the rules in force.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u69	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 164, concerning the payments of the EAFRD and LEADER funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u70	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, let me alert you to the implementation of the European programmes and the delay in the processing of cases, in particular in the payment of the aid granted under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the EAFRD, or the European programme to link rural economic development actions, more commonly called LEADER. In the course of this month, in my department of Allier, I had the opportunity to attend a meeting of economic partners around a project to develop activities in rural areas that could mobilise funds from the LEADER programme. Because of the uncertainty surrounding these funds, this project is now facing a difficulty in the payment of this aid, even though it is fully eligible for it. The complexity of education systems is compounded by delays in payment. Many farmers are facing a situation of blockage, this time regarding EAFRD subsidies that have not yet been paid since 2014. This situation is incomprehensible. While Europe has fulfilled its commitments, the appropriations paid to the French State are slow to reach the ground and the programmes do not seem to have really started almost four years after they were launched. The reasons for the difficulties of implementation are known: they are the same since 2014, namely problems with the Osiris computer tool and a lack of means to investigate the files. Today, there is no appeal: at more than half a year, no payment is yet made on the programming of the European funds of the generation 2014-2020. Although the State authorities have declared that the files can be filed, the project holders are discouraged and many local action groups – LAG – dare not organise a programming committee because they are unable to tell the depositors a date of instruction, let alone a date for payment of the aid. The state services claim that the situation is breaking out and that the delays will be quickly caught up since the famous Osiris software made available by the Service and Payment Agency – ASP – which was the main cause of this malfunction, would finally become operational. It's about time! There is now an urgent need for the Government to become aware of the complexity of the instructions and unbearable deadlines for payment that it imposes on project sponsors. In this sense and in view of this abnormal situation, I would like to know, Madam Secretary of State, what material and human resources the Government intends to put in place to quickly catch up with all the delays and guarantee the operationality of the information technology tool, enabling the current and future requests to be initiated as soon as possible. In a comprehensive manner, I also wish to know what the Government intends to do to simplify these procedures and make them more responsive, so that they will finally fulfil their real objective of being a lever for development and not a hindrance to initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u71	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u72	Mr President, you have drawn the attention of the Minister for Agriculture, whose absence this morning I would like to apologise, to the implementation of the EAFRD and the payment of aid from the LEADER programme. This topic is important for many beneficiaries and actors in the rural world. As you pointed out, the programming of rural development for the period 2014-2020 has been a difficult start. Several factors have greatly slowed down the deployment of the EAFRD: the late publication of the European regulatory framework, institutional developments in France – the decentralisation of the management of these aids to the regions, together with the creation, at the end of 2015, of seven major regions – and the difficulties in deploying ISIS and Osiris IT management tools. However, thanks to the combined efforts of the regions, the ASP and the Ministry of Agriculture, significant progress has been made. Compared to the envelopes planned for the period 2014-2020, the EAFRD's national commitment rate is 43 % and the payment rate is 30 %. Thus, France is now above the European average in this area; It is ahead of Germany, Italy and Spain. After difficult beginnings, these recent data demonstrate the ability of the state, the regions and the ASP to mobilize collectively. With regard specifically to the LEADER programme, the regions selected 340 local action groups covering a large part of the territory. Today, 85% of the agreements between these groups, the managing authority and the payment agency are signed. With regard to the Osiris software to which you referred, almost all regions now have the necessary tools. Significant progress has therefore been made in the instrumentation of the LEADER programme. I would like to remind you that the missions to investigate LEADER cases are carried out, in most regions, by regional councils, sometimes with the support of the departmental directorates of the territories, the DDT. This is not the case in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, where the educated regional council itself accompanies the LEADER local action groups. Mr President, the situation is clearly improving, not only at global level, but also specifically for the LEADER programme. The ASP and the Managing Authorities are now in a position to catch up with the budgetary implementation of this programme in the coming months, as the services are mobilised on this subject and the operational tools have now been made available to them to investigate the files.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u73	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor for a brief reaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u74	Madam Secretary of State, I hear that Osiris software is operational. Let me simply quote two concrete examples from the reality of everyday life. My friend Éric, a farmer in Souvigny, invested in his farm in 2015, but he is still waiting for the balance of his aid, i.e. 14000 euros. For the past two and a half years, he has been signing up for short-term loans to remedy this situation. Earlier, I referred to a rural development project in the small town of Noyant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u75	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u76	For the development of a restaurant, 100000 euros of LEADER aid can be mobilised. Today, we have no answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u77	Thank you, Mr. Dufrègne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u78	[[Smile]] I stress the urgency of resolving these difficulties, especially since you too are concerned, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u79	Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor to raise his question, No 194, concerning viticulture in the Gard and competition from the countries of southern Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u80	First of all, Madam Secretary of State, allow me to congratulate you on the quality of your records. That's good! My question is about the situation of the Gard wine-growers. On March 1st, a number of wine growers will appear before the correctional court. Of course, given the separation of powers, you do not have to answer me on this question. These winemakers demonstrated some time ago – you must have known – against unfair competition from farmers in southern European countries, especially Spanish wine growers. It's a tragedy for the Gard, it's a tragedy for the winegrowers! Competition is completely unfair for the following reasons, which you know and don't care about. First of all, as far as labelling is concerned, foreign wines are falsely presented as wines of the country of Oc by francising their labels. Next, Spanish wine growers treat their land with weeders whose use is strictly prohibited in France. The prohibition applies to the use of these products, but not to their consumption by the persons who purchase these wines; There are also potential carcinogen additives. You must know that all agricultural unions are behind the wine growers. You must also know that the revolt is rumbling. Even if we are not very numerous today, I take date: you will see that the wine growers will not let themselves be made. They are peasants in the country, who are dying because unfair competition is allowed to develop. Madam Secretary of State, what measures does France intend to take to protect its wine growers and wine, which are still part of our heritage?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u81	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u82	First of all, honourable Member, let me congratulate you, too, not only on the quality of your records,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u83	I don't have records!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u84	[[Mr Jean-Michel Mis and Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol applaud]] ... but also for the way in which you often look at problems with a very high degree of nuance and for your generally particularly constructive contribution to the national debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u85	Two MPs applaud! You don't have much success!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u86	So you have drawn the attention of Stéphane Travert, who is the Minister of Agriculture, as you know, Mr Travert, when I am not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u87	All he has to do is be there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u88	Where is he?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u89	Since you asked a question, Member, perhaps you would like to listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u90	Why isn't the Minister of Agriculture here?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u91	Mr Collard, listen to the Secretary of State, who represents the Government as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u92	He is not here, honourable Member, because he is busy defending farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u93	Where is he defending them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u94	I don't know if you've seen it, Congressman, but a salon is about to open... And maybe he has better things to do,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u95	Ah, he has better things to do! The national representative thanks you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u96	... today, only to respond to your invectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u97	There's no invective!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u98	It's better if I get them today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u99	Answer my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u100	Mr President, you have drawn the attention of the Minister of Agriculture, Stéphane Travert...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u101	You're not answering my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u102	We're listening to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u103	Mr President, either I continue to speak and you listen to me, or I stop right now, because we are both very busy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u104	I'm just listening to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u105	So, please, listen to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u106	You're insulting me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u107	You first insulted me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u108	Madam Secretary of State, we're listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u109	I come back to competition issues. As I said, I would be grateful if you would excuse the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u110	Where is he?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u111	Member of the European Parliament, I live not far from your region.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u112	Where?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u113	You have asked the Government about the competition for wines produced in the countries of southern Europe and the measures it intends to take to protect French wine-growing. It is true that the wine sector is now an engine of growth in the French economy and represents a significant part of the French trade surplus. The Government is convinced of the need to strengthen dialogue with the Government and representatives of the Spanish wine sector. That is why Stéphane Travert, together with his Spanish counterpart Isabel García Tejerina, has set up a joint Franco-Spanish committee in the wine sector. This committee, which met for the first time in Paris on 25 July, shared the foundations of a common economic vision of the French-Spanish wine sector. These exchanges are in depth within the framework of two thematic groups: one on competitiveness and economic aspects of the sector, which met on 13 February 2018 and which aims to anticipate possible market difficulties; the other on regulatory aspects, which aims to establish strong Franco-Spanish positions on European and international policy issues and which will meet in June this year. While these actions are an important first step, they only partially respond – we recognise it – to certain structural difficulties that the Languedoc-Roussillon wine-growing basin is facing more widely. It is for this reason that Stéphane Travert wanted the Prefect of the Occitanie region, as the prefect coordinator of the basin, to seize the interfession of the region with a view to drawing up a comprehensive action plan to strengthen the competitiveness and positioning of the Languedoc-Roussillon wine sector on the national, European and international markets. Moreover, the labelling of wines,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u114	Madam Secretary of State, Mr Collard wishes to answer you and the time limit of six minutes will have to be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u115	... and particularly the indication of their origin, meet strict standards laid down by European Union regulations. However, it appears that some labelling or presentation in the store shelves may lead to confusion for the consumer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u116	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u117	Mr President, I wish I could finish.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u118	You don't respect the time given to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u119	Madam Secretary of State, we must maintain the interactive character of this session, which is of interest to us. Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u120	I'll be very brief. Madam Secretary of State, I am talking to you about suffering and I am presenting you with a problem that you agree exists – for, after your palace, when you were interrupted, you were going to admit that my remarks were well founded. All you can say is that I am invective. I don't let it happen – and if you don't like it, so much! In any case, the voters will remember you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u121	I call Mr Dupont-Aignan to speak on his question, No 195, concerning the consequences of CETA on French agriculture. I would like to point out that the time allotted is six minutes and that, in order to maintain the interactive nature of this session, the Member should have the opportunity to reply and conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u122	Madam Secretary of State, I am a little sad to learn from a member of the Government that the competent Minister of the Republic – the Minister of Agriculture – has better to do than to be in Parliament and answer us. This is part of this government's total contempt for the parliamentary institution. I ask that this be noted, because the Secretary of State has said that he has "better to do".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u123	She said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u124	This is a confession, which will be recorded by the Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u125	All parliamentarians will be happy to learn from a minister that, in the end, there is no point in being here. More seriously – even if this question is fundamental, because what democracy could work like this? – farmers are unhappy. Many of them live on 300 euros a month. Farmers are demonstrating, protesting. Farmers can't do it anymore. Your government has organized – and it has been right – the general states of food. This was a good idea, but if they are just a communication posture, these general states are not very useful because at the same time your government agrees to perpetuate the causes of farmers' problems with, first, the acceptance by your minister of the reform of European aid for disadvantaged areas, then the signing of the CETA, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement that the President of the Republic, when he was on the countryside, had proposed to postpone by announcing the establishment of a commission. The President has certainly set up this committee to bury the controversy, but it has been very harsh about CETA, which is already applicable, even though the part of this agreement on the sovereignty of the country has still not been ratified by Parliament and we still do not know when Parliament will deal with this issue. This free trade agreement with Canada involves even more imports of beef and pork, and for the best pieces, even though the conditions of competition are unfair, because antibiotics are allowed in Canada and the use of growth hormones is frequent. This difference between Canadian and European standards will greatly benefit Canadian breeders. That was my first point. Second point: the private arbitration court organised under this treaty will place our country in a very difficult situation and a new government that wants to change standards – I am talking about standards, not tariffs – would be brought to justice by multinationals. This means that, not only do you accept a unfair deal that will ruin our farmers a little more, but also...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u126	My dear colleague, please conclude, if you would like the Secretary of State to have time to respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u127	Let me finish my question: besides, you put your finger in a fatal gear. On the one hand, therefore, a big cinema pretending to defend farmers; on the other, a new free trade agreement that will kill them, let alone the negotiation with Mercosur for Latin America.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u128	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u129	Mr. Dupont-Aignan, two things. First, when I say that the Minister of Agriculture has "better to do," it means that he has better to do than to respond to invectives. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u130	There are no invectives!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u131	[[Mr. Gilbert Collard laughs]] Secondly, the Constitutional Council recalled in 2014 that the Government has the prerogative to choose the minister to attend the meeting. In this case, Stéphane Travert has a working meeting with the Prime Minister, and you know that he is still very involved in Parliament. So don't take advantage of it to make bad populism. You have drawn the attention of Mr Stéphane Travert, Minister for Agriculture, whom I would like once again to apologize for the implementation of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), ratified by the European Parliament on 15 February 2017. As soon as he came to power, the President of the Republic entrusted a commission of independent experts with the task of studying the impact of this agreement on the environment, climate and health. This committee delivered its conclusions on 7 September and it was in this context that we drafted an action plan, implemented within the framework of the Trade Policy Strategic Monitoring Committee. With regard to the agricultural aspects of this action plan, I can inform you that, since the provisional application of CETA in the fourth quarter of 2017, the quota has been used at 2.3% of the available level for fresh beef, 0% for frozen meat and 0.5% for pigmeat. The first figures for 2018 are also in line with the very low utilization of the quota. From a health point of view, all Canadian meat imports must meet European standards to enter the European market. Indeed, with or without agreement, it is our European sanitary and phytosanitary regulations that apply every day at the entrance of our borders. It's a reality, Congressman. This is monitored by the Directorate-General for Food of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Directorate-General for Agriculture of the European Commission, which carries out frequent audits and ensures the proper application of European rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u132	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for giving the Member the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u133	One moment, please, Mr. President. This openness to Canadian meat is on the part of Europeans, and it is important to underline this, as a counterpart to better access to the Canadian market for our companies, who have obtained...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u134	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u135	... a total quota of 18500 tonnes, and to the protection of 175 European geographical indications of which 42 are French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u136	Mr President, respect speaking times!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u137	Madam Secretary of State, if we do not keep her interactive character, this session loses some of her interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u138	For the Government, asking a question is an invective and an opposition, populism. Beware, for by being so contemptuous for the representatives of the people, the French will begin to understand who you are! More generally, you have not really answered my question, particularly on arbitration mechanisms, and your answer on beef and pork quotas is staggering: you tell us, basically, that imports are not there yet – but they will of course happen. As for antibiotics, they are not at all allowed in the same way as in France...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u139	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u140	Mr. President, still!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u141	Mr Jean-Michel Mis, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 181, on the reimbursement of treatment for Alzheimer's disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u142	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to the delicate question of the reimbursement of symptomatic treatments for Alzheimer's disease. In France, according to figures from the Neurodegenerative Disease Plan 2014-2019, more than 850,000 people are reported to have Alzheimer's disease, with an estimated incidence of 225,000 new cases diagnosed each year. I observe in passing that our colleagues who ask us for respect do not take the time to listen to the questions of their colleagues and I take note of them. Alzheimer's disease has considerable family and social repercussions, resulting in a gradual deterioration of all cognitive functions: memory, language and attention, visual-spatial functions, executive functions, and praxic functions. While the treatments prescribed in Alzheimer's disease, as the High Health Authority's Transparency Committee pointed out in its 2016 report, are of modest effectiveness, they still do a better job for some patients. In the light of the principle of equal access to care, this disbursing does not seem to be appropriate. Not so long ago, the dementing of injections of hyaluronic acid into knee osteoarthritis, against the advice of rheumatologists, led to market deregulation, and thus to unequal access to care. France, through university-hospital centres, research teams, innovative start-ups and the pharmaceutical industry, must take its place in the search for innovative therapeutics, known as "disease-modifier". The disbursement of anticholinesterases and memantine would mark a halt for research and send a counterproductive signal to the same researchers, while our European neighbours have not adopted this position. I would therefore like to know the state of the Government's thinking on whether or not to maintain the reimbursement of symptomatic treatments for Alzheimer's disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u143	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u144	Mr President, I will reply instead of Mrs Agnès Buzyn, Minister for Solidarity and Health, who unfortunately was unable at the last moment to make himself available, and who regrets it very much. Following a new medical and scientific evaluation of anti-Alzheimer medicinal products in October 2016, the High Health Authority's Transparency Committee considered that the medical service rendered by these medicinal products was not sufficient. This opinion, shared by many health professionals, as evidenced by the 14% decrease in the volume of Alzheimer's drugs reimbursed, can only question the public authorities. However, the procedure which, if completed, leads to the reimbursement of a medicinal product involves several steps between the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the actual reimbursement. There is no automaticity in the transition from one stage to another. This procedure therefore allows time for reflection and verification. If the dementoring were to be decided, it could not be effective until a sufficient number of non-drug management measures were in place. This treatment goes far beyond drug treatments, as can be seen from the report What is the course for people with Alzheimer's disease?, submitted by Professor Clanet in April 2017. We must strengthen the role of general practitioners in the prevention and support of sick people, strengthen the support of family caregivers, who are essential people in everyday life, strengthen the multidisciplinary nature of the care path and continue to improve access to quality care throughout life with the disease. Finally, the important French research effort on neurodegenerative diseases must be maintained. If it were decided, it would therefore not be a sign of government disengagement, but would reflect a willingness to act on the most effective levers to combat Alzheimer's disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u145	Mr Jean-Michel Mis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u146	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The task is indeed immense in terms of medical research and support for the sick and their loved ones – I would like to remind you that the caregivers are now close to 10 million in France. If the fight against cancer has been the challenge of the 20th century – and it is not yet won – then the battle against neurodegenerative diseases must be that of the 21st century. Neurodegenerative diseases are the main factor of entry into addiction. In 2050, the latter will account for about 2.8% of GDP, compared to 1.4% today. Our responsibility to future generations is great, and the next national plan for neurodegenerative diseases will have to rise to this collective challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u147	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to put her question, No 168, on the pictogram indicating the presence of endocrine disruptors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u148	Madam Secretary of State, my question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health, but I thank you in advance for the clarification that you can give me. It focuses on the adverse effects of endocrine disruptors on the development of the nervous system, as demonstrated by several animal studies. In a study published on 29 September, a team of researchers from the National Institute of Health and Medical Research – INSERM – analysed the consequences of endocrine disruptors for the children of women exposed during pregnancy to these chemicals, whose presence is known in the composition of many common consumer products, such as plastics or cosmetics. The work of this epidemiological study, conducted by INSERM in the University Hospital Centres – CHU – of Nancy and Poitiers on a panel of 500 boys born between 2003 and 2006, shows that exposure to certain phenols and phthalates during pregnancy is associated with behavioural disorders of boys between three and five years of age. The most worrying compounds in this regard are bisphenol A, already banned since 2015 in all food containers, and triclosan. The results of this study showed an association between exposure to triclosan and an increase in emotional disorders at three and five years, as well as an interaction with the thyroid axis which during pregnancy is involved in the development of the brain of the foetus. This is the first study assessing the effects of this compound on behaviour, whereas the environmental epidemiology team in Grenoble had already identified a decrease in the cranial perimeter at birth in this same population. Since the presence of endocrine disruptors in food and cosmetics is not the subject of mandatory consumer information, everyone is in fact exposed to these products in an invisible way, and our ability not to consume them is limited. My question will therefore be simple: are you in favour of including in the public health code provisions to protect consumers from proven endocrine disrupting substances and, on the other hand, to mark, as recommended by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, all products containing the said substances with a pictogram "not recommended to pregnant women"? We can no longer hide reality. There is an urgent need to act to avoid a real health scandal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u150	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u151	Madam Member, I am replying to you in the place of Agnes Buzyn, who, as you know, at the last moment was unable to make himself available, which she regrets. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health is mobilized on the issue of endocrine disruptors, including pregnant women and young children. In 2017, we announced new actions on endocrine disruptors, complementing those already carried out as part of the national strategy on endocrine disruptors. We are much stricter at European level on bisphenols A and S and we are strengthening consumer information and the training of healthcare professionals. The aim is also to set up a public-private platform to speed up the deployment of methods for the identification of endocrine disrupting substances. In order to improve consumer information, it is planned in particular to develop labelling of products containing endocrine disruptors, such as cosmetics, toys and food contact materials. In this context, a reflection is under way on the establishment of a pictogram indicating this danger to sensitive audiences, including pregnant women, to be negotiated at European and international level within the framework of the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. It is also planned to create a chemical information website in order to raise awareness and promote a general reduction in exposure. A revision of the national strategy on endocrine disruptors will also be developed this year. It will be structured along five lines: research development, health and environmental monitoring, hazard characterization, risk management, training, public and professional information. As you can see, the Member of Parliament, Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health, is very committed to this issue and her intention is to always better inform and protect users.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u152	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u153	Thank you for that clarification. This is really a public health goal, to which even your State Secretariat can be sensitive because it is cross-cutting. This subject, which concerns the future of our young children, is of interest to all French people. We will therefore ensure that these elements are realized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u154	Mr Rémi Delatte, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 169, concerning the specialized hospital centre of La Chartreuse in Dijon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u155	The Laforcarde report, the 2016 law to modernise our health system, the implementation of territorial mental health projects, outpatient development: everything calls for a territorial reorganization of French mental health policy. But such a change inevitably entails additional costs, which are incompatible with the reduction in the financial resources imposed on the sector. Thus, in the Côte-d'Or department, the specialized hospital centre – CHS – La Chartreuse, located in Dijon, struggles to finance its settlement project, although it is ambitious and in line with the recommendations of the mental health policy. In addition to its significant contribution to intraregional equalization, the CHS is experiencing a reduction in its annual allocations. The changes proposed by the management are in line with a care "in the city", but the healthcare teams and all the staff are worried or even discouraged. The social climate within the institution is tense, which hinders the proper care of patients. Madam Secretary of State, can you guarantee that the necessary financial resources will be devoted to the renewal of psychiatry, and can you particularly reassure us about the situation of the CHS La Chartreuse?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u156	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u157	Mr President, I am replying to you in the place of Agnes Buzyn, who, unfortunately, was not able to go to the House today because of last-minute unavailability. You have wished to draw the attention of the Minister of Health to the problem of mental health in our country and its necessary adaptation to meet the challenge of quality management across the territories. The organization of mental health care is a priority for the Minister of Health. Thus, by the end of 2017, a specific action plan was presented to stakeholders in the sector. It aims to improve the coordination of health pathways through the strengthening of prevention, training and research. The adaptation of care must also be achieved by strengthening within the territorial organization the links between somatics and psychiatrics, in particular within the framework of the hospital groups of territories and psychiatric communities of territories, but also through the resources of telemedicine and territorial mental health projects. Nevertheless, budgetary adjustments will be necessary to overcome the significant inequalities between regions and between structures. This is particularly the case with regard to the establishment you are quoting. As of the end of 2015, the management of the CHS La Chartreuse, in conjunction with the regional health agency, has begun work on the optimization of its resources in order to allow the deployment of its numerous projects, such as the creation of a hospital house combining health and medical-social offers. The CHS has resolutely taken the ambulatory turn, which is an important paradigm shift in medical care. Although, since 2016, a full hospital unit – Rameau – has been closed, while two full hospital units have been merged, a day hospital unit, the Relais unit, has, however, been opened, while the transformation of a full hospital unit into a day hospital is under way. To carry out these transformations, the institution is supported by the State, as evidenced by the substantial aid it received in 2017: 321000 euros of credits at the end of the 2017 campaign and 3 million euros of support for the hospital house. The dialogue is therefore ongoing between the institution and the regional health agency in order to ensure the sustainability of the ongoing transformations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u158	Mr Rémi Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u159	I thank the Secretary of State for the information she has just given us, both at the global level and at the hospital in La Chartreuse. I recall, however, that La Chartreuse was the subject of a return-to-balance plan requiring exceptional assistance even before the new mental health strategy was put in place. I understand that new resources will be granted in general, as you have indicated on behalf of the Minister of Health; I hope that La Chartreuse will be able to benefit from it, given its unique situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u160	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to put his question, No. 170, on the shortage of doctors in the Vaucluse.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u161	My question is addressed to the Minister of Solidarity and Health and concerns the shortage of doctors, which is becoming widespread in the department of Vaucluse. It has 500 general practitioners for a population of just over 500,000. As a result, and for lack of human resources, the waiting time to get an appointment with the doctor – when one does not encounter a refusal – is several months. Last October, twenty-five doctors in the department approached the departmental council of the doctors' order to warn about the difficulties – physical, psychic or relational – that such a situation causes on a daily basis. In my constituency in Aubignan, the mayor sounded the alarm: this commune of 5,500 inhabitants is without a general practitioner. Indeed, Aubignan is not classified in the so-called "underdenses" zones, zoning which makes it possible to receive exceptional aid from the regional health agency. Aubignan is not an isolated case in the Vaucluse: the same applies to Carpentras, L'Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, Violés, Beaumes-de-Venise, Sault... Carpentras, a city with 30,000 inhabitants, has only one gynecologist! Mayors desperately seek new doctors and find themselves competing with each other to attract practitioners. In Mornas, the municipality has been looking for a general practitioner for nearly two years. Today there is only one doctor in the commune who, for 2500 Mornassians, does not count his hours! The mayor even deployed banners on the edge of National 7 and posted messages on communal information boards – without success! Be aware that in Vaucluse, the average age is fifty-five years for general practitioners, four years more than the national average. I will obviously not ask you to force new doctors to settle in the subdenses, but do you not think that it would be time to implement incentives to attract new doctors to these areas? Zoning may also need to be revisited, which does not correspond to reality, since municipalities without doctors do not necessarily enter this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u162	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u163	Mr President, I am replying to you on behalf of the Minister for Solidarity and Health, who was unfortunately unable to make himself available today. To remedy the difficulties that our fellow citizens, and especially the Vauclusians, face in accessing care, there is no miracle response – you yourself agreed, Mr. MP – but a panel of solutions. The territorial plan for access to health care presented by the Minister of Health is pragmatic because it comes from the ground and is based on the referrals of health professionals, local authorities, users and elected officials such as you, Member of Parliament. Access to care is not only based on the installation of a doctor; it is not the miracle solution. We cannot, in fact, force doctors to come and settle in a territory they would not have spontaneously chosen. Access to care is therefore based on coordinated organization among all health professionals in the Territory. We must invent new solutions, which must be found at local level, in each territory, by the actors themselves – it is this work that must be done in the Vaucluse. Agnès Buzyn's plan aims to increase the time that healthcare professionals spend on care. For example, it tends to generalize teleconsultation and tele-expertise, which we must promote in the Vaucluse. It also plans to double the number of multi-professional health homes in five years, thanks to a €400 million investment programme. As you will see, we therefore propose both innovative solutions and the provision of financial resources. The plan will evolve according to the needs of the population and demographics. The Minister of Health wanted to involve health professional organizations, each in its area of responsibility and representativeness, in the national and regional pilotage of the plan, so that they could be fully put forward. All have signed the charter to strengthen territorial access to care. We need to define solutions based on the concrete realities of our territories – which are, by definition, all different from each other. This is a priority for this government, as for the department of Vaucluse; and I know, honourable Member, that you will be able to mobilize yourself to find solutions. With regard to zoning, it is being finalized. To date, according to the indicators defined by the Ministry of Health, it covers 7 per cent of the territory concerned and 18 per cent of that of France. For the Vaucluse, we look at the situation carefully. As you can see, honourable Member, we are doing everything we can to provide answers to users and elected officials. I know you will continue to engage with the Minister of Health on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u164	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u165	It falls well that the Secretary of State who answers me is from the Vaucluse: I do not need to teach him what the peculiarities of the department are! Some solutions are soft solutions. Very honestly, it's not the charters that will change things! Similarly, if I hear the interest of teleworking, teleconsultation, you know that in rural areas, for lack of broadband and digital development, their generalization will be very complicated. But the real point is zoning – I insist, because I am sure you will provide after-sales service to the Minister of Health. Thus, in Villes-sur-Auzon, the mayor had managed to find a young doctor ready to settle, but the ARS replied that the commune was not in the right zoning. So the doctor who is in the mood will move elsewhere. We're walking on the head! I hope that, beyond the charters, you will act in practice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u166	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor to put his question, No 173, on cross-border health cooperation in northern Mosellan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u167	My question, addressed to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, concerns cross-border health cooperation. In the North Mosellan, they are 90,000 borderers to live in France and work in Luxembourg, a number that has tripled in 20 years. Within the next ten years, 300,000 women and men will form a pool of life and employment. But the slow pace of cross-border cooperation hinders their daily lives. In the field of social protection, for example, the Franco-Luxembourg Intergovernmental Commission for the Strengthening of Cross-Border Cooperation has, of course, led to a framework agreement on health cooperation in 2016. The latter must facilitate continuity of care, better information on the course of care and treatment. But on the ground, administrative procedures are not harmonised, when they are not ignored on both sides of the border. There are differences of interpretation as to the coverage of daily sickness insurance benefits. The Luxembourg sickness funds apply strict conditions of continuity of affiliation without taking into account the total periods of insurance, particularly in France. Minister, what about the state of progress in the coordination of social security systems in the context of cross-border mobility? In the area of care organisation, it is also possible to go further and faster in cooperation. On one side of the border, a hospital comes out of the ground in Esch-Belval. In 2022, it will bring together three hospital facilities in southern Luxembourg, with the need to recruit doctors already trained. On the other hand, there are renowned universities as well as a recognized and sought-after offer of care in hospitals. In this regard, the Metz-Thionville Regional Hospital is at the forefront in many medical fields – cardiology plateau, women-mother-child centre – and also has good financial health. It is possible to create a large cross-border CHU and skills networks adapted to the changing needs of populations and territories, as well as epidemiological data. On both sides of the border, solutions are within our reach. Health care professionals and patients are ready to do so and expect only the impetus of the state. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u168	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u169	Mr President, you are asking the Minister for Solidarity and Health about the situation of frontier workers residing in France and working in Luxembourg, in view of the problems they may encounter in coordinating social security systems, as well as their expectations regarding health cooperation between France and Luxembourg. The coordination of social security systems is guaranteed by European regulations and allows cross-border workers whose careers are often shared between two states, the continuity of their social security rights. I would remind you, however, that within the framework of coordination, the competent State – in this case the State of activity, Luxembourg – applies its own legislation. Our exchanges with this country are nourished and fluid. If there are differences of interpretation concerning the rules on coordination between Luxembourg and France's legislation on entitlement to daily sickness insurance benefits, the problems must be raised so that they are dealt with between the authorities of our two States. In the field of health cooperation, the Ministry of Health negotiated a framework agreement for cross-border health cooperation, signed on 21 November 2016 in Luxembourg. Following the adoption of the ratification bill, which is under consideration by the National Assembly, this agreement will provide for specific cooperation, in particular in connection with the new hospital under construction in Esch-Belval. There is no question here of setting up a new cross-border hospital, but of defining specific lines of cooperation through local agreements concluded according to the needs observed on both sides of the border. The next project of the Grand East Regional Health Agency includes a specific cross-border component relating to the strengthening of cooperation with Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u170	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u171	The practical problems remain in spite of these agreements. It is necessary to ensure continuity and harmonisation in the application of these agreements, while respecting the laws of each State, but developing synergies and a genuine partnership. The minds may be ready tomorrow to create a true cross-border university hospital centre to meet the challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u172	Mrs Graziella Melchior has the floor to put her question, No 185, on the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u173	Minister, my question is about the future of our regional and minority languages and the place our government really wants to give them. CNRS has recorded 126 of these across the country. This diversity reflects the richness of our history and culture. That is why we must continue to protect and promote them. Brittany, where I come from, is very attached to Breton and Gallo, the bases on which it built its culture and identity. In my constituency of Finistère, I meet the teams of the bilingual school network Diwan and Divskouarn crèches who propose a learning of the Breton language by immersion from an early age. Culturally, there are theatre troupes and radios in the Breton language. The Breton language is alive. In 2015, the Regional Council signed with the State a specific convention for the transmission of the languages of Brittany and it multiplies the trilingual public arrangements. All these initiatives reflect the desire not to see this part of our heritage, recognized in Article 75-1 of our Constitution, extinguished. In Brittany and beyond, associations need recognition and support to continue to support a regional or minority language. A major step forward would be the ratification of the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages, which had only been signed, as the Senate had rejected in 2015 the draft constitutional law for the ratification of the Charter. I know our President's commitment to the French language and its diversity. I would therefore like to ask whether the Government intends to put on the agenda the ratification of the European Charter. If so, in what time frame?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u174	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u175	Madam Member, I would be grateful if you would excuse the absence of the Minister of Culture. But it is a Gascone attached to the regional languages that will answer you. The linguistic plurality of our territories illustrates the richness of our country's history and culture. While the policy pursued has long been hostile to this diversity, we now consider it an asset for France in many respects. It is now recognized that bilingualism, regardless of the languages that make up it, is an asset, and that bilingual education promotes the cognitive development of the child, develops linguistic and cultural skills so valuable in our cosmopolitan society, and represents a definite advantage in the professional field. This wealth, the President of the Republic stressed again, on February 7, in Bastia, in these terms: "Bilingualism is the act of travelling between two linguistic universes, it is an enrichment, an openness. [...] It must therefore be recognised and developed. » With regard to regional languages, this is also an issue of preservation of our ancestral heritage, reaffirmed by article 75-1, which was introduced in our Constitution in 2008 and provides that "Regional languages belong to the heritage of France". The Government supports all measures that contribute to maintaining practice and promoting the visibility of regional languages, which remain a valuable heritage to safeguard and value. This promotion must be carried out alongside local and regional authorities, for which it is also the responsibility. That is why the Ministry of Culture coordinates many initiatives aimed at valuing the place of regional languages in our society. It provides substantial support for the institutional support structures of the public offices of the Basque language, the Breton language or the Occitan language. Secondly, it ensures the presence of plurilingualism in the public space, by financing cultural meetings in the regional language. Third, it promotes artistic creation in the languages of France through regular support to cultural institutions and helps to raise awareness among the general public by accompanying the production of documentary films or radio programmes: I will mention in this regard the recent partnership with RFI which will give rise to a series of reports on regional languages in the programme "La Danse des mots". Finally, the Government is heavily invested in supporting scientific research on languages at risk and in their linguistic equipment – dictionaries, grammars, etc. – and technological. I would also point out that an effort is also being made in favour of the overseas regional languages through the establishment, since 2011, of an incentive fund for ultramarine linguistic development. The Ministry of Culture intends to continue and expand this action in favour of regional languages in liaison with all relevant ministerial departments and in close dialogue with elected officials, local authorities and associations. It is also important to welcome the involvement of many regions, including Brittany, which are actively involved in the preservation of their local culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u176	Mrs Graziella Melchior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u177	My question concerned the ratification of the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages and I did not have an answer to that question. Perhaps the Minister of Culture was not the person to question on the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u178	Mr Vigier has the floor to put his question, No 192, on the future of the Châteaudun air base.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u179	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the establishment "Element air attaché" – EAR 279 – of Châteaudun, attached to Bricy's defence base. I have been here for many years as a Member of Parliament. It is a major case for the south of the department of Eure-et-Loir, Châteaudun being a large air base, which has undergone major restructuring in the last ten years. Under the previous government, the Minister of Defence, Jean-Yves Le Drian, spoke on several occasions in writing and orally and a number of strong decisions were taken, including one, which was extremely important not only for this base but for the entire French army: that of creating a unit for the deconstruction of aircraft at the end of its life. Between 700 and 800 aircraft bodies are currently stored on this basis, with risks of toxicity. They will have to be dismantled because France cannot keep such a cemetery of aircraft in contradiction with its environmental commitments, especially since a number of parts can be recovered from these aircraft at the end of their life. In a word, there is an industrial sector to be created, in accordance with what had been decided under the previous quinquennium and has been confirmed each time by the ministers and cabinets concerned as well as by those responsible for this dossier. In recent weeks, Madam Secretary of State, while some lots have already been awarded, new difficulties have blocked the start of the sector. It is known that it will be limited in time – we are talking about five or six years – but it will allow to deal with all the aircraft involved in the air force, the army, the navy and even the helicopters of the gendarmerie. Such a sector does not exist anywhere else in Europe, except in Spain, where it is much more limited. We need ministerial arbitration. I know that there are centrifugal forces within the department itself that cause us to be opposed to even stricter clean-up rules than in the civilian sector. You, who are elected from the south of France, Madam Secretary of State, know that there is a civilian aircraft deconstruction unit in Tarbes. Tarbes, Tarmac, a consortium with leading names in aeronautics, has also been selected. Now we have to start this industry. Commitments have been made. It is the word of the State, it is the interest of the country, it is also an environmental issue. Above all, it is a problem that France must solve. Significant investments have been made in recent years for the development of IT services, including joint management of infrastructure networks and information systems – DIRISI – and the Châteaudun base houses the only aircraft maintenance, repair and storage group – GERSA. This unit plays an essential role in our territory. I would therefore like to see confirmation of the commitment made by the army.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u180	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u181	Mr President, you are asking me about the prospect of a deconstruction of military aircraft in Châteaudun, a matter which I know is of particular interest to you – my teams have a regular opportunity to take stock with you on this subject. As you know, end-of-life military equipment can be used for training in specialized schools, but also be transferred to new buyers such as the Mirage F1 have recently been sold to the United States. For example, over the past two years, nearly 160 aircraft have been sold for reuse for an amount of approximately EUR 25 million. Despite the military ministry's proactive policy of divestment, several hundred out-of-service aircraft must be dismantled. A large part of them have been stored on the Châteaudun site for nearly ten years. A mandate was therefore given to SIMMAD – the integrated structure for the maintenance in operational condition of the Ministry of Defence's aeronautical equipment – to study the legal and technical aspects of an industrial dismantling industry which would have as its primary objective the elimination of all the wrecks of Châteaudun by 2025. However, the economic model of a chain of dismantling aircraft in a complex environment still needs to be worked out. Thus, the experimental decommissioning contracts did not produce the desired results. The Ministry of Armed Forces, however, wishes to continue to study the feasibility of this project, as well as all possible avenues for valuing the land of the Châteaudun site. Four files – I think you know them – are now closely monitored: the introduction of an automobile circuit, the development of civil aviation activities, the installation of a photovoltaic power plant and the construction of a demonstrator of airships. Please be aware that the teams of the Ministry of Armed Forces will visit the area in the coming weeks to assess in situ all the projects that could contribute to the revitalization of the territory. Be assured that we study them diligently and responsibly. You can count on the determination of the Ministry of Armed Forces to ensure that the Châteaudun site has a sustainable future, as I know to be able to count on your mobilization and that of all local actors to accompany any project that would contribute to the economic development of this basin of life. Yes, honourable Member, I know Tarmac, yes, I know the possibilities of industrial development. All of these topics are, of course, under study on the Ministry's table.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u182	Madam Secretary of State, you know all the possibilities of conversion, but nothing can be done until the dismantling of the aircraft has been completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u183	The floor is open to Mr Hervé Saulignac to raise his question, No. 175, concerning the case of real estate fraud "Apollonia".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u184	My question was to Mrs. Keeper of the Seals. Madam Secretary of State, the "Apollonia" case is considered to be the most important real estate scam known in France. The eponymous company fraudulently sold apartments between 1998 and 2009 to a thousand people in the framework of defiscalization programmes. A large number of doctors, in particular, have been targeted. Many elements give this case an absolutely exceptional scope: ten years of judicial investigation, 680 civil parties, 50 departments concerned for a scam valued at more than 1 billion euros. Edifying! Today, hundreds of complainants are waiting for justice to be pronounced. As a result of fraudulent loans, they were sentenced to civil liability for real estate loans. They are therefore faced with seizures of property, wages or pensions, mortgages of their homes and forced recoveries pending the completion of criminal proceedings. Some families had been completely ruined, three victims had committed suicide, thirty-five persons had been charged, notaries had already been convicted and punished by their order, but the investigating judges had succeeded each other and the judicial file seemed to be at a standstill. In addition, the health consequences are harmful in some territories, as is the case for the department of Ardèche. Many doctors who have been victims of Apollonia society are planning to leave their posts because of the precarious nature of the proceedings against them. Of course, I am aware of the constitutional principles of separation of powers and independence of judicial authority. Nevertheless, it seems to me appropriate to give the necessary instructions to the tax services so that they can manage the files of the victims with indulgence, when they can no longer even pay their taxes. The victims I met are in disarray, in doubt. Their confidence in justice, we can understand, is shaken while there is no longer any justification for the delays in criminal proceedings. I would therefore ask you, Madam Secretary of State, to take the full measure of this alert in order to promote the completion of this criminal procedure as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u185	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u186	Mr President, I would like to apologise to Mrs Belloubet, on whose behalf I will reply. You have drawn his attention to the great difficulties encountered by many families who acquired real estate on credit as part of the defiscalization programmes proposed by Apollonia between 1998 and 2009. It is clear from the evidence that the fraudulent actions of Apollonia and several banking institutions have serious consequences for these families, both morally and financially. Forced recovery measures are currently being implemented and challenges to the competent courts will incur additional costs for their defence. Although very sensitive to the disarray of these families, I must point out to you – as you yourself have pointed out – that because of the constitutional principles of separation of powers and independence of the judicial authority, we must refrain from interfering in judicial proceedings or from issuing an opinion on judicial decisions, which fall within the sovereign discretion of the courts. However, by decision of 5 January 2017, the Criminal Division of the Court of Cassation overturned the decision of the Investigation Chamber of the Court of Appeal of Aix-en-Provence rejecting applications from civil parties against banks. Criminal proceedings are therefore still under way. If, at the civil level, these families have been ordered to respect their commitments in respect of the real estate loans contracted, it will be possible for them, in case of referral of the accused to the correctional court – for those who have formed civil parties – to seek compensation for the damage suffered. Therefore, I can only suggest that you invite these families to come closer to their counsel in order to consider with them the means of action appropriate to the defence of their interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u187	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u188	My question was not about making an assessment on the merits. The victims are asking for justice! The scale of this case is equalled only by the slow pace with which the judicial machinery deals with it. Sometimes it is also necessary to measure the disarray in which some litigants find themselves while nothing has been happening for years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u189	Mr Nicolas Demoulin has the floor to put his question, No. 180, on the application of the coastal law in the Hérault.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u190	Madam Secretary of State, the coastal law of 1986 was more than necessary. After years of massive urbanization and collective awareness, it was indeed essential to reconcile urban developments with ecosystems. Several works denounce the difficulties and disparities in its implementation in the territories. Although it now allows for the structuring of territorial coherence schemes and local planning plans in accordance with the requirements of the Grenelle 2 Act of July 2010, its application does not guarantee the equality of territories. Thus, in my beautiful riding, several communes – Frontignan, Vic-la-Gardiole, Balaruc-les-Bains, Balaruc-le-Vieux and Mireval – face certain difficulties. In Frontignan, the extension of the scope of activity of an economic hub was refused – even though 400 jobs would have been created – because it did not constitute "a measured extension of existing urbanization". Madam Secretary of State, can you tell us what measures the Government intends to take to adapt the law to today's imperatives and thus take into account the issues, the local particularities, for harmonious and truly sustainable development?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u191	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u192	The coastal law, as you said, has been involved for more than thirty years in the protection of coastal natural areas and in the fight against their artificialization. His general philosophy is in no way contested. The French plebiscite the preservation of their natural heritage, especially their coastline, which is a factor of quality of life and attractiveness. The littoral law is a law of responsibility of the actors of the territory because the balanced development of our littorals, sometimes very different from each other, requires the elaboration as far upstream as possible of projects of territories in depth, on a scale allowing to associate with the coastal strip the land-sea interface and the hinterland. The objectives of this law – to prevent pitting and preserve the natural spaces at stake – are more relevant than ever, while global warming has significant consequences at the local level, both on ecological balances and the erosion of the coast line. Thirty years after its adoption, let us keep in mind that the stake remains high, while on the coast the population density is 2.5 times higher than the national average of metropolis, that the increase in the artificialisation of the soil was still, between 2000 and 2006, 2.7 times greater than in the interior of the land, and that the area of agricultural land has decreased by 20% in 30 years, a decrease three times greater than the national average. In this context, two points need to be made. First of all, I consider that the specificity of the phenomenon of erosion of the coastal trait calls for new solutions which favour anticipation and adaptation and are of primary interest to the territories and their development, in all their specificities. We wish to increase the accountability of local elected representatives in their territorial development strategy and, to this end, to improve the tools of the communities responsible for spatial planning and to change the existing legal framework to allow the territories concerned to take the temporality of this phenomenon into account in their urban planning documents. Secondly, the Government was well aware that the implementation of the coastal law in the territories was challenging some elected officials and had clearly identified a need for clarification. The President of the Republic thus wished before the Congress of the Association of Mayors of France that work be undertaken to listen to local elected officials in order to understand these difficulties and make the necessary adjustments. The Government has begun to hear them; This listening will be extended to seek the best balance between the preservation of the coastlines and the ad hoc adaptations necessary for the evolution of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u193	Mr Nicolas Demoulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u194	Of course, I am not questioning the littoral law at all. I just want to see some pragmatism. In Frontignan, the unemployment rate is extremely high, reaching more than 16%. In this case, it was possible to create more than 400 jobs, which is also in an area quite far from the sea. It seems to me that economic development can be an asset for coastal protection. It is this double balance that I believe is necessary and pragmatic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u195	The floor is open to Mrs Frédérique Lardet, to put forward her question, No 183, on recreational real estate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u196	I would like to associate my colleagues Véronique Riotton, Xavier Roseren and Marion Lenne with this question. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of recreational real estate, its consequences on French tourism attractiveness and, finally, on the vitality of mountain areas. Indeed, the June 2015 report of Atout France's tourism promotion council entitled 20 out of 20 in 2020, 40 measures to meet the challenge recalls a simple observation: "Accommodation is one of the main determinants in choosing a destination." However, for ten years, the number of hotel rooms has remained stable in France when it increased by 100,000 in Spain. In fact, in 2014, the Chambre de commerce et d'industrie d'Île-de-France, in a publication entitled Remainer le leader mondiale du tourisme, a vital issue for France, estimated that 40,000 housing units had to be renovated in the region to simply maintain the current reception capacity. Even more, in the mountains, an area I know particularly well to be elected from the second constituency of Haute-Savoie, the situation is particularly worrying: three quarters of the accommodation is more than twenty years old and, each year, out of the 790,000 beds available in tourist residence, 3,000 come out of the market. At the second Interministerial Council on Tourism, which took place on 19 January and in which I took part, the Prime Minister himself warned against the deterioration of the tourist supply and its consequences, stating that these apartments and buildings risked, if nothing was done, becoming "tourism waste". Among the solutions put forward to remedy this, the creation of a "Front Office of Tourism Engineering" comprising Atout France, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the future national agency of the territories and the communities; Secondly, the establishment by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Cohesion of the Territories and the Ministry of Culture of an information mission to identify proposals which could facilitate the renovation of the private tourist accommodation park, particularly in ageing coastal resorts and mountain resorts. These two decisions seem important to me: it is absurd to want to attract more tourists if they cannot be accommodated; In this respect, the ambitions are great, since it is a matter of bringing more than 100 million tourists to France within the next few years. To return to the fact-finding mission led by MM. Lombard, Trigano and Augier, at the end of some 20 hearings, presented a series of proposals on supporting the strengthening of tourism investment. I would like to know, Madam Secretary of State, who you intend to implement as a matter of priority. In addition, I would like to know more about the ongoing experiment on accompanying the rehabilitation of commercial tourist accommodation in some ten mountain resorts, particularly in Savoie.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u197	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u198	Madam Member, as you said, the Government is making tourism a priority of its work. It has set ambitious targets: 100 million international tourists welcomed in 2020 and 50 billion euros in economic revenues. The unprecedented governance set up through the Interministerial Council on Tourism must guarantee the possibility of advancing the French tourism sector by activating the many levers that make it quality, including accommodation, transport, security, international promotion, economic regulation, disability mainstreaming and social policy. Among the priorities for action, the Interministerial Council for Tourism of 19 January identified the engineering component, including the creation of a front office engineering, called "France tourism engineering", in order to accompany the territories and project promoters. Hosted by Atout France and combining the Caisse des dépôts and the future national agency of the territories, in liaison with the regions, this partner office front will be an accelerator of investments and innovation integrated into the territories to remove any blocking points. Territorial meetings will be launched with territorial partners to select strategic projects that should be facilitated in all phases. On the other hand, experiments may be carried out on tourist development contracts designed to combat the phenomenon of "cold beds, closed shutters" observed in certain stations and to improve the overall tourist offer. In this context, expertise will be carried out by the General Inspectorate of Finance and the General Council on the Environment and Sustainable Development in order to make operational the main proposals of the mission that you mention, with a view to legislative and regulatory changes, for a better introduction to tourism of the existing accommodation offer. These proposals consist, among other things, of a finer zoning of the destination of the constructions in the local planning plans, between "tourism residences" and "hotels", in order to give the mayors the opportunity to guide the choice of constructions; in a modulation of the rules of co-ownership – discussions are under way in the context of the preparation of the "ELAN" bill on housing development and digital development; in a strengthening of the binding nature of tourist development agreements; in the implementation of a territorial energy and tourism performance contract allowing third-party investors to finance energy renovation work on tourist buildings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u199	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u200	The exploratory work on the identification of possible experimental territories, already under way, must continue in the framework of a consultation between the State departments, the local authorities, Atout France and the Caisse des dépôts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u201	Mrs Frédérique Lardet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u202	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. We will take advantage of the development of the ELAN bill to bring mountain ideas in order to accelerate the development and rehabilitation of housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u203	The next speaker is Mr Eric Poulliat, who has raised his question, No. 190, concerning the fight against drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u204	Madam Secretary of State, I wish to draw the attention of the Minister of the Interior to drug trafficking. At a time when a parliamentary information report, of which I was co-rapporteur, calls for the introduction of a flat-rate fine to suppress the use of narcotics with a view to reorienting police strategies towards traffickers, the number of seizures is increasing. Last November, more than one ton of cocaine was seized in Gironde by the police officers of the Central Office for the Suppression of Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs. A month later, three tons of cannabis were seized at the toll of Bénesse-Maremne, on the A 63 motorway, in the Landes – on this occasion I would like to pay tribute to the work of the investigators of the Central Office, as well as that of the Bordeaux-Bayonne research and intervention brigade. The year 2017 thus seems to be breaking all the records in terms of drug seizure in the Greater South-West, which becomes a hub of trafficking, notably from the Suriname-Guyanese zone. This increase in seizures is a perfect indicator of the state of supply in the drug market, which is increasingly accessible and diversified. If the use of narcotics has become a mass dispute, it is not so much because our citizens would all have become addicts, as because we are witnessing an adaptation of the traffic via new distribution networks and aggressive commercial practices, such as flash sales, distribution via the Internet or promotion through text messages. The consumer remains a victim, of the product first, who, let us recall, is toxic, of the smuggler, then, for whom he is a source of income. While it is important to suppress the use of narcotic drugs and to recall its danger, in particular through an ambitious policy of prevention, backed by repression, we must also urgently tackle the source of the problem, because it is the only way to limit supply, and hence use, on a sustainable basis. Could you tell us, Madam Secretary of State, how the State intends to combat drug trafficking more effectively in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u205	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u206	Mr. Deputy, the Government is taking decisive action to combat the trafficking and consumption of narcotics, which have serious economic, health and security consequences. You have rightly welcomed the recent achievements of the specialized services of the judicial police. The nature of traffic and the action of law enforcement agencies in the exposed sectors are regularly analysed and monitored in order to adjust the devices constantly in order to adapt to the changes in traffic. Thus, the experience of enhanced pilotage and inter-service cooperation conducted in Marseille since 2015 has helped to foster work between services through better sharing of operational information. These good practices now allow this system to be extended to other territories, particularly within the framework of the daily security police. The grid and the occupation of the ground remain an essential mode of action, without which it would be difficult to exert constant pressure on the various actors of the traffic and to prevent other dealers from taking over immediately from the traffickers arrested. The establishment of the day-to-day security police, which will strengthen the presence of law enforcement personnel in areas most at risk of crime, will contribute to this. On the other hand, improving the judicial treatment of the use of narcotic drugs, through the introduction of a flat-rate procedure that makes the application of sanctions simpler and more disincentive to punishment, should help to prevent the use of narcotic drugs. This will allow for a refocusing of services on traffic processing and will facilitate the launch of operations to deter consumers from purchasing at the usual locations of sale. This progress is part of the broader scope of the work of simplifying the criminal procedure led by the guard of the seals; This project will result in a bill being introduced next spring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u207	Mr. Éric Poulliat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u208	It would be important to retain a criminal dimension to a possible flat-rate fine, in particular to be able to preserve the means of investigation of our police and gendarmerie services and thus to combat crime and trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u209	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to put his question, No 167, concerning the limitation of speed at 80 kilometres per hour on the secondary network.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u210	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to refer this morning to the Prime Minister's decision to reduce the maximum permissible speed from 90 to 80 kilometres per hour on the 400,000 kilometres of national and departmental roads. In the preamble, and in order to avoid any misunderstanding, I would like to reiterate that the reduction in the number of victims of road accidents is an objective that can only be shared. It is obviously not the objective, but the relevance of the reduction of the maximum speed that is problematic, because such a measure will not have the same impact depending on whether you reside in a Franciscan department, near a motorway, or in a rural department, such as the Cantal. The decision to reduce the maximum speed allowed on the secondary network ignores the difficulties of travel in rural and mountain areas, especially in the Cantal, which is not lucky to have a network of twice two lanes and whose prefecture, Aurillac, is more than an hour's drive from the first motorway. This decision will also destroy the Department's efforts to improve road infrastructure and reduce journey times to motorways, while, I would like to stress, strengthening the safety conditions offered to motorists. Tomorrow, the Cantalian motorists who wish to join the motorways will be forced to follow the heavy goods vehicles, since they will be unable to exceed them: they will drive at the same speed. This will slow down traffic, increase the length of journeys and will bring a fatal blow to the attractiveness of a department that is away from the main lines of communication and which, like all the departments of the Central Massif, sees the prospect of benefiting from high-speed rail lines moving away. Madam Secretary of State, this measure is unfair and will be penalizing rural areas; I therefore ask the Government to give up this, or I suggest that it at least limit it to those portions deemed to be accidental, applying the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. by allowing the prefects, for national roads, and the presidents of the departmental councils, for departmental roads, to decide on which routes the maximum authorized speed could be maintained at 90 kilometres per hour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u211	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u212	Mr President, with regard to this major issue of speed reduction, I would first like to point out that a great deal of scientific work confirms the validity of our policy. On 16 June 2014, the CNSR – the National Road Safety Council – adopted a recommendation to reduce the speed to 80 kilometres per hour on roads in the secondary road network, in two directions, without a central separator. According to the CNSR Committee of Experts, this reduction in speed could save 300 to 400 lives per year. The experience with the deployment of the automated control system in France between 2002 and 2005 showed this: in these three years, on two-way roads without a central separator, the average speed decreased by 7 km/h, while mortality fell by 37%. There are no disadvantages to such a measure. The only one that could be mentioned is the loss of time on a journey. However, all studies show that this loss of time is extremely small, in the order of two minutes for one hour of journey, when comparing a vehicle running at 90 km/h with a vehicle rolling at 80 km/h on the tracks concerned. The small disadvantages of this measure, in view of its certain advantages, led the Government to decide on its implementation from 1 July next. With regard to rural and mountain areas, it is precisely these territories that will be the first beneficiaries of the Government's decision, since more than half of the fatal accidents – exactly 55 per cent – take place on two-way roads outside urban areas, i.e. mostly in rural areas. Far from bringing a fatal blow to the attractiveness of a department such as Cantal, such a measure brings added value: with the reduction of the mortality expected in this department, it will be able to rely on safer roads.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u213	[[At twelve o'clock, Annie Genevard replaced Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u214	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u215	I regret to say to you, Madam Secretary of State, that you have not convinced me of the interest that the Cantal might find in this regard, the day after its application.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u216	I wasn't convinced either!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u217	The communication campaign launched in the regional daily press suggests that the Government remains deaf to our arguments and to the legitimate concern of the inhabitants, at a time when daily mobility is on all lips and in all speeches. I therefore regret it, and write falsely against your arguments: on winding mountain roads that become straight on short portions, there is much to bet that the waste of time, on a journey of more than an hour, will be much greater than that which you have said. It is a pity that the Government remains deaf because, if it does not resolve to adapt this measure, "France at two speeds", an expression previously reserved for the territorial divide, is likely to become the daily life of the inhabitants of certain territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u218	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 193, concerning the sale to the rescue and illegal occupation of the public domain in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u219	In Paris, as you know, illegal sale, counterfeiting and illegal occupation of the public domain are all problems that, in some neighbourhoods, come to join others: I am thinking in particular of Barbès, Château Rouge, the gate of Saint-Ouen, the gate of Clignancourt, the gate of Montmartre or the district of La Chapelle. The situation is unacceptable because it creates difficult living conditions for residents and traders, and it feeds mafia channels, which make money on human misery. For a long time, I have been advocating for the creation of a municipal police in Paris, on foot and by bike, on the ground, listening to merchants, associations, residents and building guards, in order to operate a real mesh. In order to do so, the law must be changed, and I therefore hope that the Government will move forward on this proposal. This municipal police could operate in connection with the daily security police launched by Mr Collomb: I support this decision, in the general interest, because the presence of the national police on the ground is also necessary to ensure such a mesh. At the same time, action must be taken to combat these mafia sectors: this requires real investigative work to go back to the fields. My question will therefore be twofold. First, does the Government wish to move forward on the issue of the municipal police in Paris, in connection with the future daily security police, for the benefit of the inhabitants of a number of targeted neighbourhoods in Paris? What, on the other hand, is the Government's policy to trace the mafia sectors, which pose serious problems in our neighbourhoods and make money on human misery by accompanying the sale to the rescue and by participating in the illegal occupation of the public domain? Some of the products concerned are also very dangerous, whether they are fake medicines or outdated foods, not to mention, of course, counterfeits of major brands. It therefore seems to me urgent to act in the long term. Some things have been done and punching operations have been carried out. I welcome them, but they remain largely insufficient in the face of this phenomenon, which persists in a number of Parisian neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u220	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u221	As I had the opportunity to say last Tuesday in response to a similar question posed by the deputy Stanislas Guerini, Mr Bournazel, the fight against saviour sales in Paris is one of the priorities of the police prefecture. These sales are concentrated geographically, and everyone knows that the 18th arrondissement of the capital occupies, alas, a great place from this point of view, with the consequence of serious nuisances, particularly in terms of public safety. To remedy this, the police services have continuously adapted. The creation, on 3 November, of the Counterfeit Saviour Brigade made it possible, among other things, to intervene in the sensitive places of the borough. This brigade carries out daily operations of eviction and seizure of goods, in connection with the directorates of the city hall of Paris and the services of the neighbouring communes. These operations can be supplemented by verbalizations and requests for the removal of vehicles used to transport and store the products. The record is positive, as the number of saviour sellers has been significantly reduced, with no postponing effect to adjacent streets. A few figures show the effectiveness of service action. For example, for 2017, in the Château Rouge area, close to 3200 simplified minutes were drawn up, 46 tons of goods destroyed and nearly 6,000 counterfeit coins seized. In the flea market sector, Porte de Montmartre, close to 2400 simplified minutes were drawn up, more than 120 tons of goods destroyed and 5200 counterfeit coins seized. Regarding the Barbès-Lariboisière sector - La Chapelle, 612 simplified procedures were drafted, more than 2 tons of goods were destroyed and the number of sellers to the rescue was divided by three. This day-to-day action is the image of the tailor-made police that we want to promote and generalize within the framework of the daily security police. These markets, however, are constantly adapting: we must therefore continue this work, which involves the local elected representatives, the police prefecture and you, the deputy, through the proposals that you can make.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u222	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u223	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. I hope that the work will continue and expand, in the interests of the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods. But it is also necessary to understand the long term, with the rise of channels and mafias, whose officials are obviously not on the spot: it is not the sellers on the saviour or the people who counterfeit in these neighborhoods that constitute the problem. The real problem, again, is those who make money on human misery and have enjoyed, for too many years, a form of let go. I am therefore pleased that the Government is working on the task and launching the daily security police. I hope that we will go even further, as you have understood, with the creation, in the long term, of a municipal police in Paris: it would be an additional link, on the ground, to ensure the tranquility of all the inhabitants, who deserve it. It is, of course, up to the local elected representatives to take up this task as well, and I support the initiatives of the associations, which intend to reoccupy the public space intelligently to prevent these illegal sales and this occupation which can no longer last.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u224	Mr André Chassaigne, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 165, concerning the allowances for the office of the presidents of the inter-communal trade unions and of the joint forestry management unions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u225	Article 42 of the Act on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRe Act, has profoundly changed the general code of territorial authorities by inserting a restrictive condition for the payment of office allowances to the presidents and vice-presidents of the inter-municipal trade unions: to have a higher perimeter than that of an EPCI – a public institution for inter-municipal cooperation. However, the scope of the new EPCIs has increased considerably, while the inter-municipal unions for drinking water supply bring together communities on specific geographical criteria, linked to watersheds. The elected officials concerned were thus deprived of any post allowance, with a deep sense of ingratitude in view of their significant investment. However, the Act of 23 March 2016 on, inter alia, the conditions for the exercise of the mandates of members of municipal trade unions postponed the entry into force of these provisions to 1 January 2020, the date on which most of the transfers of powers under the NOTRE Act took place. However, a new law, which is in the process of being adopted, will postpone to 2026 the obligation to transfer water and sanitation skills to the EPCI without changing the date of this postponement. The NOTRE Act had also abolished the office allowances paid to the presidents of the joint forest management unions (FMMS) set up, I would remind you, to facilitate the development, management and improvement of the profitability of timber, forests and woodlots under the forest regime. The earlier drafting was subsequently reinstated, for mixed unions, in the law of 23 March 2016; But some public accountants refer to article L. 5721-8, which excludes open mixed unions such as FMMS. In the light of these elements, I would therefore ask you for regulatory clarification or for a legislative development that would allow these office allowances to be maintained, for the proper functioning of these unions, in particular the inter-municipal water and sanitation unions and the joint forest management unions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u226	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u227	Mr Member, the NOTRE law of 7 August 2015, as you said, has removed the allowances for the office of the presidents and vice-presidents of the unions of communes and mixed unions which have a lower scope than that of an EPCI with own taxation, as well as of the presidents and vice-presidents of all so-called restricted joint open unions. However, the entry into force of these provisions was postponed to 1 January 2020 by a law of 23 March 2016. Following the announcement made by the Prime Minister at the National Conference of the Territories on 14 December, the water and sanitation bill, adopted by your assembly on 30 January, does not call into question the transfer of water and sanitation competence to the inter-municipalities on 1 January 2020, but allows for derogation under certain circumstances until 2026, on the basis of a blocking minority. This arrangement responds to the concerns expressed by many local elected officials. Within the framework of the above-mentioned Act, the Government also proposed to align the regime of small joint unions with that of joint unions and closed joint unions. In the case of joint forest management unions, even if they are so-called expanded joint open unions, the system of benefits for the so-called restricted joint open unions is made applicable to them by the forestry code. The presidents and vice-presidents of these unions will therefore be able to receive compensation for their duties, provided that the scope of the latter is greater than that of an EPCI with its own taxation. Finally, in order to put your question in a broader context, the President of the Republic announced on 23 November last, on the occasion of the closing of the Congress of Mayors, his desire to improve the conditions for the exercise of local mandates. It is within this framework that a more comprehensive reflection can be made on the salary of trade union elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u228	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u229	With your answer, Madam Secretary of State, I do not have the guarantee that the current legislative developments, which will make the transfer of water and sanitation skills mandatory from 2026 onwards, will be taken into account. The question is therefore whether, by that date, the presidents and vice-presidents of the inter-municipal water and sanitation unions whose scope is less than that of an EPCI will be able to receive compensation. As far as the joint forest management unions are concerned, your answer does not satisfy me, given the condition that they have a higher perimeter than that of an EPCI. By definition, the management they perform is in fact of proximity: it relates in particular to sectional goods. These unions, which often include a few local communities, have a great interest in forest management. Therefore, your answer will not immediately bring satisfaction to the point I raised. I shall therefore again call the attention of the Minister of the Interior to this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u230	Mrs Stéphanie Do has the floor to put her question, No. 188, concerning the closure of Nestlé's site in Noisiel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u231	The Nestlé France Group announced last November the relocation of its headquarters in Noisiel in the fourth quarter of 2019, in order to consolidate its six French headquarters and its 2,500 employees at a unique site in the south of Paris. The commune of Noisiel and the agglomeration community of Paris-Vallée de la Marne will be directly affected by this departure on the budgetary, economic and social levels. In fact, the Nestlé France group employs 1,800 employees on the site established for twenty-two years in Noisiel, and it is one of the main taxpayers of the agglomeration community of Paris-Vallée de la Marne. As a result, the company's property tax paid by this group amounted to some €600,000 in 2017, and the value added tax was around €300,000 in 2016. I met with Mr. Richard Girardot, President of Nestlé France, and with local elected officials on this subject. In particular, Mr Girardot envisages a mixed real estate programme, with the creation of a centre of activities, with a view to generating comparable jobs and tax revenues. Today, Madam Secretary of State, I ask for your support, so that the departure of the Nestlé France de Noisiel group will penalise the commune of Noisiel and the community of agglomeration Paris-Vallée de la Marne as little as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u232	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u233	Madam Member, the Nestlé Group has decided to group its seven seats in France on a single site near Paris in 2020. Currently, 1300 employees work on the Noisiel site, but a minority live in or near the municipality. The Noisiel site is of major interest: of great size, classified as a historical monument, it is located near the stations of the Grand Paris and the future arrangements for the Olympic Games of 2024. With regard to the impact on local employment and employees, the State will ensure the quality of the social dialogue. The Nestlé Group is committed to ensuring that this project is conducted in the most responsible manner possible, involving the public authorities throughout the consolidation process. The interministerial delegate for corporate restructuring, the prefect of Seine-et-Marne and the mayor of Noisiel are in regular contact with the management of Nestlé France. The Government will be extremely attentive to the conduct of this reorganization and to the accompanying measures offered to employees. They will have to live up to the capabilities of a group like Nestlé. With regard to the conversion of the site, the primary responsibility of the owner Nestlé, the State will ensure that the solutions are adapted to the needs of the territory and meet the objectives of the communities concerned. The conversion project will have to be based on a mix of economic, cultural, service and housing activities, offering a high added value in terms of spatial planning for the Marne Valley. Several reprehensors have already manifested themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u234	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor to put his question, No 186, on the Hagondange steelworks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u235	Madam Secretary of State, by decision of 28 January last, the Strasbourg High Court decided to retain the offer of the German-Swiss group Schmolz + Bickenbach to take over the Ascometal group. This decision ends several months of uncertainty for the employees and managers of the group. On the basis of the guarantees, particularly the industrial and financial guarantees of the winning group, the judge seems to have drawn lessons from the weaknesses of the previous recovery and decided to adopt Ascometal to a solid project, which does not without asking important questions for the future. The prospect of closing, at the end of 2019, the Hagondange steelworks, with a transfer of activity in Germany, carries significant risks: a risk to customers, with loss of certification, likely to have an impact on other Ascometal sites and blacksmiths; a financial risk, as the concentration of two currently competing suppliers will push some customers to diversify their sources of supply; a social risk in a basin that has already experienced many; a logistical risk relating to the control of flows and the lengthening of delivery times; an environmental risk, by increasing the number of trucks on our roads; Finally, a tax risk since, if production is ensured in Germany, the value added achieved in France will be reduced, as well as corporate tax revenues. In connection with the fragility of the previous recovery plan I mentioned, this steelworks has suffered from a chronic lack of investment in the previous decades. According to some sources, an investment of EUR 15 million would restore a level of performance and costs comparable to that of competition, and develop market shares in markets where the Schmolz + Bickenbach group is not present today – crankshafts, racks, bearings and injections. Development on the wind farm market is also possible. Also, Madam Secretary of State, my question is twofold. Are negotiations between your ministry and the winning group possible to promote the maintenance of production by the Hagondange steelworks? In the event of agreement by the group concerned, is it possible to direct aid from the State, through one of its investment tools, to bring the production unit back to the level required by the markets?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u236	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u237	Member of the European Parliament, the Hagondange site in Moselle, which employs 480 employees, was part of the Ascometal Group, whose industrial plan could not be implemented due to the opening of a judicial remedy on 22 November 2017. This plan already provided for the closure of the steelworks at the Hagondange site. Because of Ascometal's chronic financial difficulties, this steelworks suffers, as you said, from a significant investment delay. This would now result in a significant need for upgrading investments if there were to be a possible continuation of activity, even though the steelworks are under-used in relation to its production capacity. There is indeed an overcapacity in Europe for the production of liquid steel for special steels. Also, Schmolz + Bickenbach, like Liberty, the other candidate for the takeover, planned, in the tenders submitted to the Strasbourg High Court, to reduce this overcapacity by maintaining the closure of the steelworks provided by Ascometal. The timetable for this closure, as communicated by Schmolz + Bickenbach in its offer, would be flexible and has not, to date, been presented to the State or discussed with the company. In practice, it should provide for the continuity of supply of the sites served by the steelworks, which would then be progressively served by the other steelworks in the group. This timetable should also comply with the Group's commitments to the State regarding the provision of sensitive customers, particularly in the field of defence. In addition, Schmolz + Bickenbach plans to carry out on site 26 million euros of investments in three years to ensure the competitiveness and development of the rolling mill and the completion workshop, which will remain in service. The concentration of steel production in the Schmolz + Bickenbach steelworks will also significantly reduce the supply costs of the Hagondange mill and thus sustain the future of the rest of the site. The State will take into account with great benevolence any plans to maintain the production of this steelworks. However, any public support can only be considered in accordance with the rules. It requires in practice that, in the steel sector, the State or its operators behave as prudent investors in the market economy. At this stage, Schmolz + Bickenbach did not request any public financing for the takeover of Ascometal or for the financing of the large investments, exceeding 80 million euros, provided for in the industrial tool of Ascometal in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u238	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor to put her question, No 189, on the hyper-electro-intensive industries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u239	Madam Secretary of State, the hyper-electro-intensive industries, as their name suggests, have the particularity that electricity accounts for at least 30% of their production costs, in areas such as chemical reduction or electrolysis. Today, these industries represent nearly 10,000 direct jobs, 40,000 indirect jobs in France and allow, by feeding local sectors, the development of industrial solutions with high added value, such as photovoltaics or aeronautics. They thus participate significantly in our country's research and development effort. Faced with problems related to the lack of visibility since the end of regulated electricity sales tariffs in 2015 and adapted historical contracts, our hyper-electro-intensive industries have since been highly exposed to global competition. Indeed, the energy supplies of their main competitors are now much more competitive. Provisions have already been adopted, allowing for a strengthening of the measures of interruptibility and erasure, or the reduction of the rate of transmission of electricity. However, these measures, authorised by the European Commission on 7 February, cannot be sufficient without the rapid establishment of a comprehensive strategy ensuring long-term visibility of their electricity supply. A number of solutions can be considered for these industries, such as the establishment of a long-term contract with electricity suppliers, the review of regulated access to hydraulic energy or the introduction of a system of hydraulic concessions, in order to operate existing facilities. To what extent does the Government intend to intervene in order to guarantee and support the competitiveness of our hyper-electro-intensive industries? If so, what would be the deadlines?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u240	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u241	The price of energy, particularly electricity, is an important competitive factor for our industry. The Government therefore wished to continue its efforts since 2014 to make energy a real factor of competitiveness for the benefit of French industrial enterprises, and in particular the hyper-electro-intensive industries – HEI. To this end, France has taken numerous measures in favour of energy intensive industrial enterprises, from which the HEI industries benefit greatly. You recalled a few of them, Madam Member: the status of HEI company, the compensation of indirect costs, the enhancement of the flexibility of consumption, i.e. interruptibility, erasure, or discounts on the rate of use of public electricity networks – TURPE. Another example is the total exemption from contribution to the public electricity service – CSPE – for certain processes specific to the HEI industries, as well as the application of the EC minimum rate of CSPE, i.e. EUR 0.5 per megawatt-hour. Interruptibility and discount on TURPE are currently the subject of work by the State departments, in particular the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate and the Directorate-General for Enterprise, together with the European Commission, to validate their compliance with EU state aid rules. This is a necessary step, in order to provide industry with the necessary legal certainty and ensure the sustainability of the arrangements. In addition to these specific measures, long-term competitive contracts are essential to provide sufficient visibility for the investment necessary for the competitiveness and sustainability of the sites. This subject can only be considered if the European Union provides a safe framework for energy-intensive industries by allowing them to conclude contracts. France regularly emphasises the importance of this point to European bodies. The Minister of Economy and Finance, Mr Bruno Le Maire, did so last October during his meeting with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Sefkovic, responsible for the Energy Union. Furthermore, the negotiation of the new European regulation on the electricity market provided an opportunity to introduce into the Council's position adopted on 18 December 2017, the possibility of long-term supply contracts complying with Community competition rules. Discussions will now begin with Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u242	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u243	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your full answer. I take note of the fact that negotiations are continuing on long-term contracts, which are very much demanded by the HEI industries. It would also be necessary to revise the law of 16 October 1919, in particular to improve the regulated access of the HEI industries to hydraulic energy. Today, thanks to the approval with the state, only large companies, which consume a lot of electricity, can access hydraulic energy. Lowering the threshold would allow smaller businesses to benefit from it as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u244	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor to put her question, No 184, concerning the status of non-contracted schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u245	Minister of National Education, the important development of out-of-contract schools is continuing. That must be an issue for us. A report made in 2016 in the Academy of Versailles pointed to some worrying drifts, particularly with regard to the quality of the education provided, which sometimes does not conform to the right to education guaranteed to the child. The non-contract status concerns, among other things, denominational schools but also schools with alternative pedagogies, bilingual schools and even well-known bodies of school support. These institutions do not receive public subsidies and their operating costs are not covered as is the case for private institutions under contract, whose teachers are paid by the State. A recent circular has strengthened controls. Through these, one can guess that it was mainly denominational schools, although they accounted for only a quarter of the out-of-contract schools, which were targeted. While it was important for the State to be vigilant about the development of such schools, how could it not support schools, which were aimed at addressing a problem that national education sometimes struggled to solve, early school leaving and school failure? This is the case, for example, for high school dropouts or for some students with dyslexia or attention disorders. I was able to go to the only production school in Île-de-France, which caters for young people who are out of school between the ages of fifteen and eighteen, with various profiles – early school dropouts, young people under the legal protection of young people and unaccompanied foreign minors. This mini-enterprise achieves excellent results on the examination of the certificate of professional fitness – CAP – and, above all, allows 100% of the young people it welcomes to find a job. I also went to a small structure in my constituency, Les Chrysalides, which takes care of primary school students suffering from dys-disadvantages in school refusal. It allows the vast majority of these children, followed by the departmental house of disabled people – the CDMH – to return to public school. These institutions often face funding difficulties as they are an alternative way of success and integration, and in this sense they are indeed carrying out a genuine mission of public utility which should be developed and supported by national education. If the state can and must control and sanction drifts, it should also be able to value virtuous structures. Should we not therefore create an intermediate status that would give greater visibility and stronger support to this type of out-of-contract schools?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u246	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u247	Madam Member, you are asking me what measures are envisaged to better support private schools which are not linked to the state by contract and which specialise in the reception of large drop-outs or certain pupils suffering from problems of attention. I fully share, of course, with all the officials in my ministry, your concern about the schooling of these children. The public service of national education is fully engaged in the process of school inclusion, in accordance not only with the law, but also with international recommendations. As a result, on 4 December 2017, I announced a series of important concrete measures aimed at strengthening existing arrangements in this area. The budget that I presented to Parliament for 2018 provides for an increase of 46% in the means for school inclusion, whether in public education or in private education associated with the public service. In concrete terms, this amounts to €1.2 billion, instead of €800 million in 2017. With regard to early school leaving, specific measures are also being taken. In addition, production schools are already receiving support from local authorities and may receive a share of the apprenticeship tax, even though they are not integrated into the public service. The majority of these schools have been formally recognised by the State since a decree of 1 October 2007. However, I am aware that some children and families have special educational needs and that they do not always find a suitable response in public education or in private education under contract. They then turn to non-contractual establishments. However, these institutions are not subject to the same constraints as public service establishments. Consequently, the Constitutional Council regularly specifies that public financial assistance which may be granted to them by law may be strictly regulated, in particular with regard to the principle of equality before public office. I am very pleased to acknowledge the contribution of private out-of-contract schools to the teaching mission, especially for these children with special needs. However, your desire for an intermediate status must be balanced against the constitutional principle I have just mentioned, as well as with the counterpart of State and community support: respect for the methods, programmes and objectives of public education. The support of these institutions should therefore be considered in a more flexible manner, such as experimentation or the development of partnerships with local actors, primarily local authorities. A bill on this subject, which has just been passed by the Senate, will soon be submitted to your chamber: it is an opportunity to indicate that the current legal framework and the one that is clear for the future allow us to fully reconcile freedom of education, protection of children and young people and encouragement of happy initiatives, without disrupting our entire legal environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u248	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u249	I may have a lead for you, minister. A law of 2013 created a status in higher education as a private institution of general interest, which can be attributed to private non-profit institutions created by associations or foundations recognized as being of public utility. Couldn't this status be transposed to school education?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u250	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor to put her question, No 171, on the integration of disabled pupils.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u251	Mr. Minister of National Education, while the President of the Republic and the Government are multiplying communications about the effort to be devoted to national education, it must be noted that the words do not translate into acts, especially in rural areas. Thus, in the Centre-Val de Loire region, we total 76 class openings for 157 closures, representing a negative balance of 81 closures. You will tell me that there is a drop in the number of teachers in the first degree, and that in parallel the number of teachers is increasing. But these observations and declarations of intent are swept away by the daily reports of our small rural communes, which see their classes closed and the numbers of the remaining classes explode. The review of new assignments and classroom duplications in my department clearly shows that our rural schools are paying for the mechanisms of priority education networks – REP – and strengthened priority education networks – REP+. The situation in our colleges is hardly more enviable. Thus, the Collège de Neuville-aux-Bois, despite its almost stable workforce, will lose two classes in the sixth and third grades of the next school year. These closures are made possible by an increase in staff thresholds per division, a purely administrative method that saves teachers at the cost of serious consequences for the quality of education. It will further complicate the learning conditions of pupils in already very heterogeneous and overloaded classes. In addition, it does not take into account the special conditions for the reception of pupils with disabilities, whose accompanying persons, school assistants, will find it difficult to be accommodated in the classes. Nor does it take into account the inclusion of students in the ULIS system – a local unit for school inclusion – or SEGPA – an appropriate general and vocational education section – which it sometimes makes impossible due to the capacity of the classrooms. Why, in particular, are ULIS students not counted in the workforce, whereas their inclusion in a class is mandatory? Mr Minister, beyond this last question, it is the effectiveness of equal access to education that is at stake, particularly in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u252	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u253	Your question, Madam Member, has many of them, since it concerns both rural life and disability. First of all, I would like to tell you that, in both the former and the latter, the resources are increasing at the beginning of next year. It has not escaped me that a political campaign is under way which aims to affirm the opposite. I regret this because I am very sincerely committed to the struggle for rural life and for the vitality of rural areas. Even as we are going to act, as we are taking action, we are trying to make public opinion believe that the means intended for rural schools would be sacrificed, which is wrong. To every Member of Parliament, to every senator who asks me the same question, for several weeks, I have been showing about the department concerned that there are new jobs while the number of students is decreasing, or that the reductions in the number of posts are not proportional, far from it, to the reduction in the number of students. It is a reality that everyone can verify by rational means. Of course, there are class closures; I don't dispute it. There have always been, for decades, under different governments – some that you have supported, some that you have fought – and I can predict that it will go the same way in the decades to come because, simply, it is life. Classes are closed, others are open, depending on the number of students and families moving from one place to another. This does not preclude being particularly sensitive to this issue and ensuring that school closures are as few as possible and, when they occur, are based on local consensus based on the realities observed. That is why I am currently focusing on the method of rural departmental contracts, which should allow for multi-year planning and qualitative forecasting in sixty-five departments to make rural schools more attractive so that they can contribute to the renewal of rural life. But the figures are there: more than 3800 job creations in primary schools in the coming year, even though there are more than 32,000 fewer students. This will result in a better management rate for next year's school year than ever before. This is even more true in rural departments: in Lozère, the so-called P/E ratio – the number of teaching posts, in full-time equivalents, per cent pupils – will be 9 next year and, in each rural department, the rate of supervision will increase. I find it unnecessary and even counterproductive to let the opposite be believed, because it adds to rural despair at the very moment when we are working to change the situation. As far as disability is concerned, I recalled the increase in the resources we spend on it, from EUR 800 million to EUR 1.2 billion: there are also no savings in this area, clearly defined as a priority. You mention the difficulty of welcoming students with disabilities, but you must first highlight the difference between SEGPA and ULIS. The SEGPA is not limited to students with disabilities, but accommodates students with severe and persistent school difficulties whose origin is not necessarily a disability. Each division of SEGPA has a maximum of sixteen students. A student is recognized as having a disability if he or she has a notification from the Committee on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities, the CDAPH, the decision-making body of the departmental house for persons with disabilities, the CDMH. In particular, it can offer the family an orientation in ULIS. ULIS College welcomes 10 students per class. In this context, pupils benefit from time to group in the ULIS class space and time to be included in the sixth, fifth, fourth or third class, depending on their age and skills. These students are enrolled in their colleges and are part of the school's workforce; they do not come in addition to them. The overall number of students that the head of the school thinks can be accommodated is estimated in the light of the diversity of the courses offered, the educational framework and the safety standards. Each year, the Rector initiates a piloting dialogue with the head of each institution in order to adjust the means allocated to him. The presence of ULIS and SEGPA in the school as well as students with special educational needs are taken into account. School inclusion is a priority of this government. There will be more ULIS devices next year; As for SEGPA, I myself am very much in favour of their existence, depending on the realities of each institution, and I will be very careful to ensure that no one disappears without this being justified by the evolution of the students' audience.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u254	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u255	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am a little grieved that in your eyes my question is only political. There are numbers, there are certainly clusters, but ruralness is still suffering. For ULIS, it is a bit complicated for their students to be included in "normal" classes when the size thresholds are raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u256	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari to put his question, No. 182, on inter-communal pedagogical groupings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u257	Minister of National Education, the school map is a major element of spatial planning, especially in rural areas. We know that the arbitrations are under way for the sizing of the classes of the 2019 school year and that it integrates the duplication of CPs and CE1s into areas of priority education networks – REP – and enhanced priority education – REP +. However, the difficulties specific to sparsely populated areas should be considered. Intercommunal pedagogical groups lead to multi-level classes, sometimes not compatible with 30 pupils. So what are you thinking about in order to preserve the quality of the teachings in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u258	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u259	Thank you, honourable Member, for this question which is close and complementary to the previous one. It gives me the opportunity to clarify exactly where we are. I repeat, for the coming year, the budget priority is given to primary school. This results in the creation of 3,880 posts, while, for demographic reasons, the French primary school will accommodate 32,000 fewer students. The rate of supervision thus improves mechanically. We implement the measure of duplication of the classes of CP and CE1 in REP and REP +. It is covered by the creation of posts that we have carried out: therefore, contrary to what is sometimes said, we do not need to strip other schools in order to achieve this. On this measure, we are beginning to gather fairly positive testimony; It is at the end of the school year that we will be able to judge fully, but we can already be pleased that the new budgetary means are at the service of a targeted scheme, because that is how we are efficient rather than using the means. On the other hand, the demographic decline gives us more room for manoeuvre in rural areas. This does not prevent certain class closures; there will always be; There are also openings. It should also be noted that the measure of duplication of the classes of CP and CE1 is not reserved for the periphery of the very large cities of France: small towns in rural or rural areas, small towns of France sometimes called peripheral ones fully benefit from it. Moreover, this measure creates a pedagogical dynamic whose interest goes far beyond mere duplication, bringing a qualitative dimension. We have given ourselves the means to take this targeted action. The situation also allows us to pursue a specific policy for rural schools. Such a subject should be the subject of national consensus, and this is more or less the case for the duplication of the classes of CP and EC1. This consensus has now been acquired, and I have noticed that the attempt is being made to accuse this measure of having a perverse effect on the rest of the schools, which is not correct. That is why I sometimes respond with a little mood to remarks which, in my view, are as many indirect attacks against what we have done. I appeal to everyone's sense of responsibility to stick to a fair description of the facts. This does not mean, Mr. Djebbari, Mrs. Dubois, that I am not sensitive to what is happening in practice when classes are closed, or sometimes inevitable school closures. We need to understand what's going on and design strategies to bounce back in rural areas. That is why the Government, and in particular my Ministry, is developing a rural strategy. The aim is to work together at the level of each rural department; develop strategies for renewal; to put resources at the service of these strategies – we assign, for example, five posts to each department, when a contract of this type is concluded; to be creative in the service of the renewal of rural schools, but also of rural colleges. This is the meaning of the boarding projects that will be announced shortly. We will also take a series of initiatives for primary school. It is important to accompany such developments, which must be, at a time when primary school can bounce back, both in terms of means, quantitatively, and in terms of pedagogical design, qualitatively, a source of hope for rural areas and not a moment of concern that would have been artificially aroused.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u260	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1150.u261	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions on the nuclear exit strategy; Questions on developments in the Middle East and the recognition of the Palestinian State. The meeting is adjourned.
