ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law ratifying Order No. 2016-131 of 10 February 2016 reforming contract law, the general regime and proof of obligations (No. 315, 766).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u2	I call Mr Sacha Houlié, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u3	Madam Chair, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to acknowledge the quality of the work that has been done with the Senate rapporteur, François Pillet. The positive attitude in which they took place allows us today to offer you a balanced text. The Joint Joint Committee has indeed reached a compromise solution on the three points – apart from the editorial aspects – that remained under discussion: the lapse of the offer following the death of its addressee, the definition of unfair terms in a contract of accession, and finally, one of the most emblematic provisions of the bill we have discussed, namely judicial review in the event of unforeseeability. On the expiry of the offer, first of all, an agreement was reached between the two chambers – as you already know, since the Joint Joint Committee was a success. In article 4, the Senate wished to render the offer obsolete in the event of the death of its recipient, while the National Assembly preferred to limit the lapse to the death of its author. Considering that the continuation of the offer could prejudice its author, who would not necessarily have maintained it under the same conditions for the heirs as for the original recipient, and that the parties would be obliged to rely on it in the courts in the event of a dispute; In view of the uncertainty surrounding the legal status of the offer, ladies and gentlemen, we propose that, in order to reach a compromise, and following the appreciation of our honourable senators, you should also provide for the lapse of the offer in the event of the death of the recipient. With regard to accession contracts, the Senate wished, in article 7, to limit the application of the unfair terms to non-negotiable clauses only. For its part, the National Assembly, wishing to protect the weakest parties, proposed, at first and second reading, to extend this possibility to all the terms of the contract. However, to the extent that Article 2 – on which both chambers had reached a compliant vote at first reading – makes the lack of negotiability the essential criterion of the definition of the contract of accession, it seems to us to be possible to limit the application of the scheme of unfair terms only to non-negotiable clauses. In fact, one can anticipate that the judges would have so decided, which is an additional argument for the National Assembly, by pragmatism, to agree to this new compromise. On the other hand, it was the text of the Assembly that was chosen for Article 8, on the regime of unforeseeability, one of the three major difficulties initially posed by the order, with the abuse of dependency – which should not be limited to economic dependence alone – and the scope of the pre-contractual information obligation. The introduction of imprevision in our law is indeed a big piece, a true novation now enshrined in article 1195 of our Civil Code. However, on the advisability of giving the judge the power to review the contract at the request of one or two of the parties, the disagreement was – why hide it? – major. We negotiated successive versions without immediately reaching a compromise with the Senate. However, as with unfair clauses or the lapse of the offer, the meeting of the CMP allowed us to chart a path, to co-build a balanced solution. The Senate considered the power of judicial review at the request of only one of the parties contrary to legal certainty and considered it to be a source of new litigation. He therefore wanted such a power to be limited only to the case where the parties both agreed to make the joint application to the judge. For our part, we considered that giving only one of the two parties the right to request it is precisely what would guarantee the effectiveness of the unforeseeable regime. In addition, we felt that there was a need to relativize the breach of the binding force of the contract. First, article 1195 of the Civil Code, like many other provisions of this reform, is a substitute for will, i.e. the parties are free to rule out its application, in whole or in part. Secondly, the powers of the judge are strictly regulated by the principles of civil procedure: he cannot proceed ex officio with the revision of the contract and must wait for one of the parties to request it. Finally, the risk of a review of the contract by the judge is a lever to encourage the parties to renegotiate the contract among themselves, which was an objective pursued by the bill. That is why we have rejected the compromise solution of making pre-negotiation compulsory, and we have not sought to define the contours of this negotiation. On the other hand, making judicial review conditional on the agreement of both parties could result in blocking any attempt to renegotiate, since the "winner" side, which benefits from unforeseeability, does not necessarily have an interest in negotiating. In view of the difficulties in conducting fair negotiations, and under undisputed conditions, we therefore considered it preferable that only one of the parties should be able to refer the matter to the judge. This is even the only sanction for the incitement to negotiation under Article 1195. The wording adopted for article 8 is therefore the one adopted by the National Assembly at second reading. In total, the text of the Joint Joint Committee confirmed the objectives of the National Assembly: to defend the weakest parties and to strengthen contractual justice, while guaranteeing the attractiveness of contract law, which was part of the original intentions of the bill. You will therefore have understood this: as rapporteur, I am fully satisfied with the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee, and that is why I invite you to vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u4	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u5	Madam President, Mr Sacha Houlié, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that I return to you today, at the end of the process of ratification of the order reforming contract law, proof and the general regime of obligations. This long-announced, constantly postponed reform is, at last, on the verge of finding its legislative term. This is a success, since the Joint Joint Committee has reached an agreement – which I can only rejoice at – and above all because this agreement perfectly illustrates the constructive spirit that has animated each of the parliamentary assemblies, at every stage of the discussion. Indeed, without even waiting for the Joint Joint Committee, each of these assemblies took a step towards the other. I must say that the quality of this parliamentary work owes you a great deal, Mr rapporteur: I would like to stress it here. The text that has been submitted to you is exceptional in several respects: because it is of a rare magnitude – more than 300 articles – but also because it is of a special technicality. It regulates the simplest economic relations, those of everyday life, but also the most complex operations. In this respect, it concerns everyone: the citizens in their usual acts but also companies, whether small, medium-sized, large or multinational. Entered into force on 1 October 2016, the Order of 10 February 2016 is now the positive law applicable to contracts concluded since that date. Ratification is intended to give this body of law force: it is therefore, from this point of view, absolutely essential, both legally and symbolically. This ratification exercise is also obviously a delicate task. It was indeed essential that Parliament should take a demanding and legitimate look at the order and propose to amend the terms of the order when it deemed it necessary. At the same time, consideration should also be given to the fact that this new contract law had already entered into force and that it had therefore already asked practitioners for important adaptation work. In this regard, the men of art were quickly reassured by the spirit of responsibility under which these debates were conducted. Indeed – and thank you again – you, Mr.Rapporteur, and the rapporteur of the Senate before you, have been very interested in focusing on the strictly necessary changes. It is therefore only 20 of the 300 articles in the order that have been amended following particularly rich debates and, I must say, very dense, both technically and politically. Your Assembly has also duly introduced provisions specifying the application in time of the new amended texts. These precise transitional provisions will limit the succession over time of the applicable rights for changes of an interpretative nature. This will simplify the application of the amended texts over time. The changes introduced in the text had, for the vast majority of them, only one objective: to clarify the law in order to strengthen legal certainty. Thus, in particular, beyond the correction of the evils, the two readings allowed the two assemblies to converge on many points. To mention just a few, I will refer to the definition of the accession contract, to which your rapporteur has contributed a great deal, and which is now clarified. The fate of security rights in the event of contract or debt assignment was also clarified, while the price reduction mechanism was made more legible. On other points, the amendments made were useful in supplementing the text of the Order. This is the case, for example, with the provision on dolosive reluctance. It has been brought into line with the general duty of information solution, so that the estimation of the value of the benefit is now excluded from the scope of dolosive reluctance, in order to incorporate Baldus case law. The most debated points were, unsurprisingly, linked to two of the major innovations of the ordinance: the prohibition of unfair clauses and the revision for unforeseeability. The text now before you clearly defines the scope of prohibition of unfair clauses. It's important. A debate has indeed taken place on the scope of this field, which, according to your work, covers non-negotiable clauses within accession contracts. This amendment, the impact of which will be limited in practice, I would stress, has the merit of consistency with the criteria established during the shuttle to define the contract of accession: the breach of the binding force of the contract is precisely justified by the subtraction from the negotiation of the clauses in question. This amendment does not call into question the protective nature of this provision, to which the Government, like you, the rapporteur, is very attached. The other debate, which has further crystallized the oppositions – as you recalled, Mr. Houlié – is that relating to the judge's powers of review for unforeseeability. The very principle of revision for unforeseeability has not been challenged, thus demonstrating the existing consensus on the usefulness of this major innovation of the order in order to take into account and adapt our contract law to the economic upheavals that may affect their execution. The only point of disagreement was the judge's ability to revise the contract at the request of only one of the parties. The Government was convinced of this: it was necessary to provide for this option without which the effectiveness of the scheme could be seriously compromised in the event of the bad faith of one of the contractors. Convinced of this need, you too, the rapporteur, and you patiently supported it with conviction and pedagogy at every reading, until before the Joint Joint Committee. This provision will certainly remain criticized by some commentators, but I am convinced that the parliamentary debates will have made it possible to underline the suppletive nature of the provision and, above all, to demonstrate its usefulness, since the breach of the contract is not always the most economically appropriate solution. Thus, beyond the confrontation of views, which is necessary with regard to such important provisions, the objectives assigned by the Government to this reform are fully achieved at the end of the discussions; The aim was to restore to the law of obligations the intelligibility and accessibility it requires, to make it more effective, therefore more attractive, while at the same time strengthening – and this is not contradictory – contractual justice. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The dialogue between the chambers will have led to a coherent, balanced and improved text, which I thank you most sincerely, on behalf of the Government. I hope that the same spirit of compromise and responsibility will allow us, at the appropriate time, to pursue together the modernization of the law of obligations by the necessary recasting of the law of civil liability.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u6	In the general debate, Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome the work of the Joint Joint Committee, which, having reached agreement on the last points of the draft law that remains under discussion, allows the implementation of an unprecedented reform of contract and obligation law, more than two centuries after the creation of the Civil Code. I believe, without going back to the debates that animated the chambers during the two readings, that we can all welcome the parliamentary work, which has shown that the legal scope of this text is beyond its political scope, transcending the divisions to make an expected change in our contractual relations. This reform was indeed expected by all: not only by the actors of the law, but also by those in the economic world. Our civil code, which has long inspired the world, has indeed lost its superb. Since the legislator has so far failed to take care to adapt it to changes in society and to globalization, the actors have resorted to the wisdom of the judges and the decisions of the Court of Cassation to fill its gaps and to remedy the obsolescence of many of its provisions. Through this order and this bill, we will strengthen the intelligibility, readability, predictability and attractiveness of our law. Through the use of a modernized vocabulary that is intelligible to all, contract law thus renews its civilist tradition. And if we broaden the perspective, this reform is part of the necessary harmonisation with the laws of our European neighbours, which will have to be continued in the years to come. This included simplifying the rules on the condition of validity of contracts, while ensuring the legal certainty of contractual and pre-contractual relations. The general principles of freedom of contract, binding force and good faith were reaffirmed. At the end of the parliamentary shuttle, the constructive and well-informed work of the Joint Committee has enabled, as you said, the rapporteur, to reach a balanced solution on the three main subjects that are still under discussion. With regard to the termination of the contract offer, the Joint Joint Committee took the position of the Senate, which wished to establish the lapse in the event of the death of its addressee. With regard to the definition of unfair terms in a contract of accession, it also took the position of the Senate, which wished to limit the application of the scheme to non-negotiable terms only. This definition, which is legible and clear, will help to combat the clauses causing a significant imbalance, which previously existed only in consumer law. As regards the judicial review of the contract in the event of an unpredictable change of circumstances, the Joint Joint Committee, on the other hand, took the position of our assembly, which wanted only one of the parties to be able to refer the matter to the judge, which will certainly encourage amicable renegotiations. With regard to the implementation of the bill, we encourage the executive to use pedagogy to inform and train economic actors on the effects of the reform, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, which are less equipped to cope with legal developments. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, the IDU, Action and Independent Group supports the bill in the version proposed by the Joint Joint Committee. Although we regret, as parliamentarians, the use of orders, we call for the adoption of a text that constitutes a founding act to make our contract and obligation law more accessible and attractive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u8	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this reform of contract law was long overdue, both by professionals and by students. Indeed, the matter had become unnecessarily complex because of abundant case law. The political stake of the reform of contract law lies in the balance to be struck between the need for justice in the contract, which, we believe, involves greater intervention by the judge, and contractual autonomy, which would justify the maintenance of unfair situations in the name of legal certainty. We regret that the reform of such an important matter was carried out by order and that it was not submitted to national representation for debate before its entry into force. The order, however, has the merit of clarifying the existing rule of law through a more consistent re-consolidation and codification of settled case law. For example, the duty in good faith from negotiation to performance of the contract is now recognized in law. The general obligation of information to be provided prior to the formation of the contract is also now included in the law. We think this is a good thing. In its original wording, the order breaks, with regard to the judicial review of the contract for unforeseeability, with a jurisprudence established for one hundred and forty years. Thus, where a change in circumstances makes the performance of the contract too costly for one of the parties, the judge may revise the contract. In the same way, the common law enshrines the category of accession contracts and gives them protection from the weak party to the contract. However, the text, in its current form, also contains setbacks or risk takings to which we oppose. In this way, the Senate launched on unpredictability, particularly on interrogation actions, a real liberal offensive, within the meaning of the law – according to this concept, which is not ours, people would be free to draw up contracts, the social report should not be taken into account and the judge should not intervene on the merits when deciding on compliance with the contract. But while the Senate has made the political choice to reduce contract law to a common instrument for the competitiveness of rights, the Joint Joint Committee has generally been able to resist the liberal offensive. During the discussion of the bill, we proposed that you innovate and strengthen justice in contractual relations. First innovation: introducing a non-limitative list of provisions that would fall within the domain of public order, thus preserving the powers of the judge. The drafters of the order have asked themselves the question, but they have finally given up this reform, which is a pity. To strengthen and consolidate public order, while giving the judge discretion, we still feel that it is necessary. The second innovation – you will recognize this as one of the battles we are waging in the context of the finance bill and the amending finance bill – would be to arm our right, in all areas, against tax evasion, tax evasion and unfair tax optimisation, by introducing the notion of abuse of tax law into the common law. In concrete terms, when the non-payment of taxes reaches amounts as large as those revealed by Panama paper, Paradise paper or LuxLeaks, this means that our right is not sufficiently armed to enforce the fundamental republican rule of contribution to the common effort, consent to tax. Until the re-establishment of the republican tax order, we must constantly legislate wherever it can be useful. We have to act. That too, you refused. Finally, we proposed to strengthen justice in contractual relations by re-establishing this tool in the service of the judge who is the cause of the contract – which is why two parties contract – and of the obligation. We welcome the fact that the functions of the cause concept are enshrined and codified by the order. However, we believe that this concept must remain literally in our law in order for the judge to have a malleable instrument for regulating contractual balances. Contract law is faced with situations that are evolving at the same time as society, and it is preferable to maintain the cause in our civil code. The text of the Joint Joint Committee, despite the fact that it has not accepted our proposals, is, however, in the right direction. We shall therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u10	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u11	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of contract law, the regime of obligations and evidence, on which we have to speak once again, is the result of a long decade of preparatory work. At the bicentenary of the Civil Code in 2004, legal professionals already agreed on the urgency of reforming a right that two hundred years of practice and jurisprudence had naturally aged. The profound changes made by the Order of 10 February 2016 of the previous Government aimed to make the law of obligations more readable and accessible, so that the civil code could reflect the real state of positive law. In general, the reform proposed to us is marked by a willingness to pedagogy. We can only welcome the simpler and clearer drafting of old provisions, as well as the emergence of new ones, which fill old gaps. Reform has the merit of strengthening weak parties and rebalancing legal relations. It establishes a general duty of information for each contracting party and affirms the principle of good faith in all stages of contract life. It recognizes the violence for abuse of dependency in which the co-contractor may find himself, directly echoing the case law on economic violence. It is also useful to clarify the regime of error of law, on the same regime as error of fact. With regard to the way in which this reform has taken place, I would remind you that in 2014 and 2015, we had already opposed an orderly reform of this right, which concerns the daily lives of all French people. Far from being purely technical, such a reform raises very important political questions, which should have been addressed in the parliamentary debate. The method chosen removes this possibility. The undertaking of this reform by order also poses significant legal risks to the practice, since the order has already been in force since 1 October, while the national representation has not yet ratified it. Reform is thus already taught to students, assimilated and practised by legal professionals and economic actors. One of the objectives of the reform was to make our civil law more attractive and effective. It is with this in mind that the order enshrines and organizes certain legal mechanisms, such as the assignment of contracts and the assignment of debts. It also simplifies the assignment of actual claims or offers, and introduces innovative solutions, such as interrogatory actions, which allow a party to end a situation of uncertainty as to the legal validity of a contract already concluded or in the process of being concluded. It is certain that all of these changes contribute to the achievement of the objective. However, the economic attractiveness of our law is not based solely on French contract law. The effectiveness of the rules of procedure and, more broadly, the efficiency of justice are equally important. As we know, justice does not have the means to function properly in our country. Our judicial system is out of sight, and neither the budget of justice nor the minimalist increase that this House has voted for bring real solutions to this alarming finding. Let me remind you that the French budget for justice is, per capita, one of the lowest in Europe: EUR 72 per inhabitant per year. In 2014, France was ranked twenty-fourth out of twenty-eight in terms of judicial staff, with only ten professional judges per 100,000 inhabitants. As a result, the procedures are too lengthy. In the first instance, for example, a defendant will wait an average of 304 days to see his case tried in France, compared with 19 days in Denmark. We will not succeed in making French law attractive if our judicial system is not subject to significant improvements in its functioning. Since this text proposes real progress, especially for the weak parties, the deputies of the Democratic and Republican Left will not oppose it, however. On the other hand, we can only deplore the fact that reform of this magnitude has been carried out by means of an order, and that is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u12	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u13	Madam President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, ladies and gentlemen, we are here: we, MPs, senators, magistrates, professors of rights, ministers, senior officials of the Ministry of Justice, practitioners, lawyers and notaries; all of us, who have been involved for more than ten years in this long, very long process of reform of contract law, of the general regime and of proof of obligations. Here we go. The aim of this reform was to modernise our civil code, simplify it, improve its readability, improve its accessibility and ensure the legal certainty and effectiveness of the standard. The vocabulary is now simplified, the notion of "cause" is removed and the jurisprudential solutions are devoted: for example, the pre-contractual period, the generalization of the concept of good faith of the obligation to inform, the unjust enrichment, the pact of preference, the unwillingness to dolosive or the exception of non-performance. This is not about a detailed presentation of the nearly 300 new articles of the Civil Code, nor is it about reopening the numerous and endless debates that have been shaking the doctrine for more than ten years. I just want to welcome the work of our rapporteur at the end of this CMP. The essential thing was preserved, namely the judicial review of the contract at the request of only one of the parties in the event of an unpredictable change of circumstances. This provision is one of the major innovations of the reform. By going back to a very old case law of 1876 – the "Craponne Canal" judgment – the imprevision allows the judge to substitute for the will of the parties to restore the contractual balance. Thus, in certain strictly regulated circumstances, the civil judge no longer merely interprets the contract and the will of the parties to it. In the event of unforeseen events, it can now intervene to restore the contractual balance. The Senate opposed it; We were in favour of it and the CMP gave us reason on this point. Once again, it should be remembered that this innovation has been the subject of a wide consultation and consensus of the doctrine as practitioners. It will be up to the judge, and in the first place the Court of Cassation, to accompany and supervise this development. But the work, our work, is not over. We need now, ladies and gentlemen, the guard of the seals, to attack us on the second floor of the rocket: the reform of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u14	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u15	The law of civil liability has more than two centuries, since most of the rules date from the Napoleonic Code. If the case law has demonstrated a remarkable ability to adapt, remember the judgments "Montagnier", "Teffaine", "Clément-Bayard", "Jand'heur" or "Franck" – the latter, major, having been rendered all chambers assembled on December 2, 1941: the guardian is the one who has the use, control and direction of the thing. After a broad public consultation, for a year now, a reform project has been on the table, on your table, Madam Keeper of the Seals, as you have just indicated. Could you tell us a little more about the calendar and the vehicle? Do you intend to proceed with a bill or directive, and if so, do you intend to associate us? In any case, you will understand, we, the National Assembly, are ready.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u17	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u18	Madam President, the Minister of Justice, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this reform, as has been said long before me, was indispensable. It was necessary, for the competitiveness of our law, to bring the case law into line with texts that have aged well and, ultimately, with our practice. It concerned the defence of our system of continental law, which was more protective than other systems, in particular that of Anglo-Saxon law. For my part, I regret that the text places too much emphasis on case law, and we would have preferred a number of provisions to be more precise. Continental law is based on three pillars: the law, democratically passed by Parliament; the judge, who settles conflicts between the parties – and it seems to me very important to limit his role to this task; the authentic act, finally, which seals the agreement between the parties by affixing the seal of the State. We have several regrets about this bill. The first, mentioned by some speakers before me, concerns the use of orders. As you said, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the provisions of this text have already been applied for a year and a half, leaving very little room for manoeuvre in Parliament: how can we amend provisions that have been applied for some time now? Law professionals, especially magistrates, have seized it, and they are taught at our universities. In these circumstances, Parliament was only able to amend the text at the margin. This allows me to convey to you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, our concern about the Government's frequent use of orders. We are told that transport law will also be amended by ordinances, and the Government has been given the power to legislate through this process to reform a fundamental right, that of information technology and freedoms, which, in my view, required a parliamentary debate in view of its importance for individual freedoms. Unfortunately, we will only have the right to ratify orders that, when we have to do so, will already be enforced for some time. These choices are also part of the weakening of Parliament, and your statements yesterday, in questions to the Government, are not such as to reassure us of your respect for it. You have indeed distinguished between the quality amendments and those which, in your view, would not. This is also a cause for concern for us, with regard to the consideration and the place given to the democratically elected Parliament. On the substance of this text, we welcome the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, in particular on our proposal to make the contract offer lapse in the event of the death of its addressee; But, as in any negotiation, compromises must be made. This compromise has been made, since it was necessary to reach an agreement, but we regret that it has intervened on maintaining the power to review the contract entrusted to the judge under the new regime of unforeseeability. This provision is, in our view, too serious a breach of the principle of binding force of contracts and of freedom of contract; It gives too much power to the judge in a strictly contractual relationship between the parties. As a result, it constitutes a much too important concession to Anglo-Saxon law, since too much latitude will be left to the magistrate, therefore to the jurisprudence, which will take precedence over positive law. We therefore regret this choice, but since this text is, in its quasi-globality, necessary and indispensable for the legal functioning of the obligations, we will obviously vote with enthusiasm,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u19	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u20	... especially since the order, I repeat, has already been in force for more than a year and a half.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u21	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u22	Madam President, the guardian of the seals, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text that we are going to adopt is intended to ratify the order of 10 February 2016 on the reform of contract law. This reform, we have had the opportunity to recall, is the result of a reflection initiated more than fifteen years ago. It has long been expected and demanded by legal practitioners and has made it possible, in particular, to bring our civil code into line with judicial practice. It was necessary to change our contract law in order to adapt it to today's needs and to strengthen the attractiveness of French law. This reform brings our legislation closer to that of other Member States of the European Union, and we in the MODEM and related group are very much in favour of harmonisation initiatives at European level. Although the Senate has opposed the orderly reform of contract law, we are pleased to see the effectiveness of the parliamentary shuttle on the ratification text. At the end of the two readings in both houses, points of agreement could be found, and this shared spirit between senators and Members will have led to a compromise text satisfactory to all in the Joint Committee, which we are about to vote on. It is true that certain provisions of the Ordinance have been challenged and could pose difficulties for legal practitioners. Most of these difficulties have been identified, extensively commented on and corrected by parliamentary work. I would also like to thank the two rapporteurs, Sacha Houlié in the Assembly and Philippe Bas in the Senate, for the important work they have done. I recall that the purpose of the Act of 16 February 2015 was to modernise, improve readability, enhance the accessibility of the common contract law, the regime of obligations and the law of evidence, and ensure the legal certainty and effectiveness of the standard. It was necessary to strengthen the attractiveness of French law by moving towards the harmonization of our legislation with other international rights. It is not only a matter of bringing our civil code into line with positive law, but also of improving the competitiveness of our legal system, at the service of our territory. The Ordinance improves the economic efficiency of our civil law. Articles 2.3 and 4 of Title I, for example, which deal with the sources of obligations, introduce innovative solutions, such as interrogation proceedings or the possibility, in the event of non-performance of its contracting party, of seeking a reduction in prices. Moreover, various provisions – relaying direct requests from the actors concerned – specify the roles and powers of each person, in particular the judge, in Article 1195 of the Civil Code, thus avoiding any harm to the undertakings which the various possible interpretations of the provisions of the text entailed. The text that we are going to adopt is a good synthesis between the remaining points of divergence between the Senate and the Assembly. We welcome the fact that we have been able to produce a drafting document that makes amendments sufficiently limited not to create legal instability, but also necessary to fill some practical difficulties. For all these reasons, the MODEM and related groups welcome the imminent passage of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u23	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u24	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u25	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u26	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u27	The next item is the debate on the draft law on military programming for the years 2019 to 2025 and on various defence-related provisions (No. 659, 765, 732, 762, 761).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u28	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with Amendment No. 89 to the report annexed to Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u29	Amendment No 89 is not being defended. Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 306.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u30	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u31	Mr Jean-Jacques Bridey, chairman and rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u32	The creation of the European Defence Fund is an excellent European initiative, which breaks with previous practices. For its part, this amendment stresses the need to strengthen permanent structured cooperation in defence, and I am very enthusiastic about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u33	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u34	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u35	Mr Jean-Jacques Bridey has the floor to support Amendment No. 366.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u36	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u37	I have before me two amendments, Nos 217 and 338, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to support Amendment No. 217.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u38	This amendment aims to highlight cooperation with our German, British and American allies. I wanted to see in the text the roadmap resulting from the Franco-German Council of Ministers of 13 July 2017 and to remind us of our commitment to the Lancaster House Treaty, despite the British's choice to opt for Brexit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u39	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to support Amendment No. 338.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u40	Cooperation can generate additional policy space and increase efforts. This amendment, close to the one that Laetitia Saint-Paul has just defended, aims to clarify paragraph 363 by highlighting cooperation with our British, American and German friends. In this regard, I would like to stress the strength of Franco-German cooperation when a parliamentary working group was set up to work, by 22 January 2019, on a draft recast of the Elysée Treaty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u41	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u42	Opinion in favour of both amendments. France must not only develop multilateral initiatives, therefore also European ones, but also strengthen its bilateral treaties and agreements, whether they concern Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Spain or, of course, the United States. Mrs Saint-Paul, I will also give a very favourable opinion to your amendment, which I initially rejected in committee, because you added the reference to the fight against jihadist terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u43	Mr rapporteur, you are in favour of both amendments, but they are under joint discussion. The first, if adopted, will bring down the second. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u44	These amendments do not pose any problems on the substance, but on the form they refer to very circumstantial episodes of recent history, while we are legislating here for seven years. It seemed to me that by referring to the fundamental principles of cooperation, whether Franco-German or Franco-British, the wording of paragraph 363 was sufficient. I therefore rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u45	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u46	Since these two amendments are basically equivalent, I propose to withdraw mine in favour of Mrs Thillaye's.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u47	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u48	The LaREM Group will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u49	I call Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 213, second rectification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u50	This amendment is intended to respond to a debate in committee. Since we were talking about certain areas as priority areas, we were many to consider that other regions were then relegated as peripheral areas. That had hit my sensibility, which is why I am proposing this editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u51	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u52	Favourable opinion. I fully endorse this new wording, in which it is no longer the areas that are the priority, but our strategic partnerships with different countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u53	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u54	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u55	I call Mr M'jid El Guerrab to support Amendment No. 348.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u56	The aim of this amendment is to focus on the French elements of Senegal, the EFS. French soldiers whose excellence is no longer to be demonstrated train and advise members of foreign armed forces on a daily basis. The EFS, for example, created on 1 August 2011, following the treaty signed between France and Senegal, is an operational hub for regional cooperation in Dakar. They also have the capacity to host, support and even command a planned joint force. Thus, as part of a preventive posture, the SFEs remain a support point for the existence of a key core joint command post and naval and aeronautical ports of call. Training activities are organised each year for African armies, in order to enable them to gain autonomy. Due to the high demand, it is proposed to strengthen them in order to double their current training capacity. Currently, the number of training operations carried out by the EFS is currently 250 per year – as I have seen on the spot, because these units are part of my constituency. A very small increase in their capacity would double their training potential.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u57	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u58	I'm very upset, Congressman. In substance, I fully agree with this request, which the French elements in Senegal had already expressed, I remember, on the occasion of a visit we had made to them with the Minister. Moreover, the draft law on military programming is in line with this, since the attached report specifies that our training efforts towards the various African partners will increase from 20,000 to 30,000 men. Such a development would otherwise represent a doubling, at least a 50% increase. However, you are only quoting the EFS about our training package, as it extends to the entire region. I am thinking, for example, of the one based in Abidjan. Your amendment is therefore too reductive: while it is certainly necessary to mention the situation in Senegal and our presence on the spot, we must not limit this presence to EFS. I am therefore, I repeat, entirely in agreement with you – we had talked about it – but, so drafted, your amendment cannot be accepted. I can therefore, regrettably, only express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u59	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u60	I fully understand the scope of your amendment, honourable Member, but it seems to me that the attached report responds to your inquiry: its paragraph 74, which is part of the heading entitled "Prevention", recalls the configuration of the network of advanced operational bases and operational cooperation poles, quoting Senegal, and concludes as follows: "The capabilities to train and train on-site soldiers of partner and allied nations (passage from 20,000 to 30,000 trainees trained per year) are increased. » Furthermore, as the rapporteur has said, the wording of your amendment may suggest that only the French forces based in Senegal contribute to the operative part, whereas, as the paragraph which I have just summarized indicates, it is obviously the whole apparatus of the advanced operational bases and the operational centres of cooperation that is targeted. For these reasons, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u61	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u62	Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, I have heard you very well. Thank you for your comments, Mr. President. My amendment was an amendment of appeal or, if you wish, of light. As part of our strategic defence policy, we must really think of military cooperation and the actions of this kind that accompany the armies, particularly in the area in question, where we are very involved and which is part of my constituency. These highly appreciated operations need to be developed. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u63	I call Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 182.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u64	As you all know, conflicts are becoming more complex; We have discussed at length here the issues of hybrid war – which are the very essence of war. From now on, simple or compartmentalised solutions will no longer be enough, because closing each function in a box of the checker leads to perverse effects: we must now think of the checker as a whole, i.e. thinking together about the issues of culture, education, defence and development, and strengthening the global approach. The aim of this amendment is therefore to put an end to the divisions in the process of conducting peace, but also, beyond crisis prevention, to allow the deployment of projects according to a comprehensive approach in the destabilised areas to be envisaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u65	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u66	As I explained in committee, I am not in favour of this amendment, not because I would disapprove of the intention, but because everything is already said in the text. See the last sentence of paragraph 368, which follows the statement and description of the strategic preventive function: "This effort will be part of a consolidated global approach" – or strengthened, if desired – "to combine security, development and diplomacy, in the service of peace". I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, Madam Commissioner, because I think it is largely satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u67	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u68	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u69	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u70	On behalf of my group, I agree with the rapporteur that what the text says is enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u71	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u72	I stress that my amendment was intended to promote the comprehensive approach in projects in destabilized areas, since paragraph 368 highlights the reaffirmed role of the "prevention" function of the armies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u73	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u74	It is essential that the issue of development be associated with France's military interventions, because there is no military solution to the events that provoke these interventions, only political solutions, built with local populations. Development was therefore central, including to resolve migration crises by destroying the causes of migration. Mr President of the Committee, yesterday you quoted President Chassaigne to say that repetition is sometimes useful; It seems to me that this is the case here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u75	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u76	I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u77	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u78	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u79	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to support Amendment No. 307.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u80	The maintenance and competitiveness of the national and European defence industrial and technological base is a priority objective in order to ensure national and European strategic autonomy and the preservation of jobs and skills. The Ordinance of 23 July 2015 on public procurement implements the principle of European preference in defence or security procurement by excluding economic operators from Member States of the European Union or the European Economic Area from the procedure. It is important to recall here the strength of this principle and to ensure its effective implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u82	Very favourable opinion. This amendment is welcome at a time when we are talking about the need to create an industrial and technological defence base at European level to create a form of European strategic autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u83	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u84	The relevance of the choice of developing a European defence industry leaves us dubious, for two main reasons. Firstly, the experience of previous European partnerships, which have consistently failed. Let us take the example of the A400M: of course, it flies, but at what price, and at what time? The problem is that, in these partnerships, each country wants to build what it does not know how to achieve technological progress. Does France, one of the few countries in the world to be able to build a plane on its own, really need such partnerships? Isn't she more of a fool? To explain the second reason for our doubts, this time I will quote the example of Nexter, who created a joint venture with the German KMW. We have a French company that manufactures armoured vehicles, a German company that manufactures armoured vehicles: so let's make a European company that manufactures armoured vehicles. All right, but where is the headquarters of the joint venture, KNDS? In Amsterdam, i.e. neither in France nor in Germany, but in the Netherlands, which Mr Moscovici himself described as "aggressive" with regard to taxation, i.e., without euphemism, a tax haven. We are therefore going to create European arms companies that will live only on public funds and settle in European countries that are tax havens, thus depriving France – we are French Members – of the fair tax revenues that they should pay to it. We disagree. That is why we are calling for the deletion of paragraph 373.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u85	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u86	[[Smile on several benches of the LaREM group]] Forgive me for making a little sense of humor. Who wants to drown his dog accuses him of rabies... Some European partnerships do not work very well, but you could have mentioned others that are a success.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u87	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u88	Well, for example, in the missile field, MBDA, which comes from a Franco-British-Italian partnership. We are now considering replacing our major equipment within the framework of a European partnership. After the Franco-German roadmap for the future air combat system, the famous SCAF, a partnership was formed between two states, but also between industrialists: two major groups working together, including one Franco-French, Dassault, and one Franco-European, Airbus. The examples could be multiplied. You talked about Nexter and KMW: it is the tank of the future that is concerned, it could also be the artillery of the future. We can still mention, in maritime matters, the patrollers and refuellers who will certainly be built in cooperation with the Italians. So let us not throw the baby away with the bath water, but let us build on the will of the states and on the know-how and expertise of our European industrial groups to create genuine industrial cooperation at European level, which will enable us to carry out effective projects, because it meets the needs of our armies, and is competitive for us as well as for the outside world, i.e. exportable. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have faith in this European ambition. It's a point of disagreement between us. That is why I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u89	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u90	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u91	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u92	I admit I have a little trouble following Mr. Lachaud. He has been telling us with great conviction, for two days and two nights now, that we need to get out of NATO and then build a European defence. That was your argument, Mr. Lachaud, yesterday and the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u93	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u94	And today you tell us that we must abandon European industrial cooperation in the field of defence, which is the first stone to lay to build this European defence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your strategy, therefore, is ultimately to leave Europe as deprived as the fish bank in front of the trawler! Is that it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u95	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u96	Mr Becht, you didn't listen to us. We have always said that European defence is today, as a result of the Treaties, subject to NATO, which makes it unthinkable – especially since a common defence involves a sovereign people, who do not exist at the level of Europe. Mr President and rapporteur, you mentioned MBDA: this is a very special case, where several companies coexist within the same group and where the sharing of competences is not obvious. As for the SCAF, the example is very interesting: it will only exist if the Germans agree. We will know very quickly if they are a potential partner, since they must replace part of their fleet; But – as we all know, we told you in committee, minister, and you agree – if they choose the American F-35, we will not partner with them on the SCAF. The Germans did not even consider the purchase of a Rafale; They are potentially considering buying a Eurofighter, but as I was telling you on Tuesday, American pressure is growing every day to tilt the German authorities to the F-35, the only plane that can carry the American nuclear bombs today. This choice would bring the Germans to NATO standards and prohibit any possibility of developing a European defence – you should be interested, Mr Becht. Last week, Washington reaffirmed its position with force and conviction to the Germans; We will see very quickly what these will do, but in any case, doubt is now allowed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u97	The rapporteur, Jean-Jacques Bridey, has the floor to support Amendment No. 367.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u98	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u99	I call Mr Thomas Gassilloud to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u100	Madam President, Minister, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, Madam and the rapporteurs, with my colleague Olivier Becht, since the end of 2017 we have been carrying out an information mission on the issues of digitisation in the armies – an important topic since, as has already been pointed out many times, our operational superiority is increasingly based on our ability to innovate, particularly through digital technology. To innovate, we need to change some of our procedures, perhaps some of our statutes, to change our view of the right to error; But we must also achieve a critical mass comparable to that of our technological competitors such as the United States or China. The European scale, which the annexed report rightly presents as relevant for many capacity developments, is also relevant for carrying out certain research and development projects in the long term. This amendment therefore proposes, ladies and gentlemen, to include this in the attached report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u102	Very favourable opinion on this amendment tabled by our two colleagues in charge of the information mission on digitisation. However, I will make two points. Admittedly – this goes in your direction – it is better to be many to understand these challenges of technology research and breaking innovation; The Government therefore wishes to consider them within a European framework. However – this is a small alert – the financing of this breaking innovation, which concerns society as a whole, should not be based solely on the Ministry of the Armed Forces. If a kind of DARPA – Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency – is created in Europe, the upstream studies included in this LPM and subsequent efforts must be funded through a much larger fund. According to the press, the Government had ideas on the matter. I am therefore very much in favour of your proposal, but on condition that it is extended to the level of government and not restricted to the defence and the armies alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u103	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u104	I fully understand the philosophy of this amendment and I am obviously in favour of it. France has defended with the European Union the creation of the European field of defence; It supports cooperation in both research and development and capacity building. However, I would not like this amendment, which has been very diluted, to come in contrast to the rest of the attached report, which is much more densely drafted. With no substantive opposition, only a problem of form, I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u105	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u106	This amendment concerns the links between our armies and the defence industries. These are at the service of these; This should be the rule, and yet, in the course of this annexed report, we regularly wonder whether it is not the other way round. It reads as well that the recruitment of 400 people must promote export; It alludes to the fact that it is good to send forces to combat because it shows the quality of French weapons. In the end, we wonder if our armies are not turning into the VRP of our industrialists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u107	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u108	No, that's what it says.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u109	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u110	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that we have misunderstood and that it is not the Government's intention to suggest that the use of our weapons could boost the sales of our manufacturers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u112	Unfavorable opinion. First, defence industries do not have the right to export; It is by way of government derogation that they export. Secondly, if we want to maintain a French and even European industrial and technological defence base, we must be able to meet the needs of our armies, but also to export equipment. It is over, the time when France could manufacture the 300 or 400 tanks it needed and only that. If we want our industries to be at the forefront of technological innovations, we cannot ask them to build only for the needs of the French armies. That is why, at the stage of implementation, cooperation with our European partners must be expanded, and in terms of opportunities, exports should be developed in the international defence and security market. It is therefore a two-way link between the needs of our nation and our industrial defence base.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u113	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to support Amendment No. 308.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u114	In order to make effective progress in industrial and technological cooperation, it is important to ensure that the export capacities of the States and industries concerned are maintained. The aim is to ensure that the economic model of these co-operations is sound and sustainable for all stakeholders. The wording of this amendment – "exporting or allowing the export of weapons equipment from development or production carried out in cooperation" – comes from the 1972 Debré-Schmidt agreements and has already been approved by France in the context of a bilateral relationship.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u116	Favourable opinion. For me, France is doing exactly what we need to do: we scrupulously respect the procedures defined collectively within the European Union through Common Position 2008/944/CFSP. Blockages are surely political disputes between governments, and it is at the political level that they must be lifted. For our part, we believe that when certain rules are respected, our industrialists must be able to export; your amendment repeats that position.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u117	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara has the floor to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u118	Madam President, Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteurs, this amendment concerns the recruitment of personnel dedicated to export support – one of the crucial tasks entrusted to our armies, who carry out it with seriousness and dedication. I do not need to remind you of the importance of this task, which my colleague seemed to question. It is the responsibility of all branches and departments of the Ministry of Armed Forces. Therefore, it seems to me fair to say that the 400 new posts will benefit all these entities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u119	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u120	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Ferrara, I asked you to withdraw this amendment in committee because it was not drafted in that way. This clarification is useful and I fully agree with the new wording that you are proposing. Opinion in favour of this amendment, which I hope will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u121	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No. 309.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment proposes to add a paragraph after paragraph 388 in order to recognise the new European defence ambitions and to take account of the opportunities for cooperation at European level. Some already exist. To mention just a few means implemented by the Joint Space Command, the Helios system is used in particular by the European Union Satellite Centre; In the period covered by the LPM, it will replace the optical space component, with the MUSIS project – Multinational Space Imaging System for Monitoring, Recognition and Observation – carried out with the participation of five other EU Member States. We also benefit from the cooperation of Germany and Italy in the field of radar imaging, and in particular Italy in the field of military telecommunications. Beyond traditional bi- or multilateral cooperation, it is also a question of recognising the new ambitions of the European Union in the field of defence and space. As the report annexed to its paragraph 361 points out, we must have a "European reflex in the conduct of our industrial defence policy". This reflex must be reflected not only in the search for partnerships, but also in the use of the legal and financial instruments put in place within the framework of the European Union, which justifies the reference to the European Defence Fund. While we share with our European partners the fact that strategic risks have increased and that the European Union has this year for the first time formulated a space policy, it seems important to affirm France's willingness to contribute through its space-related efforts to the construction of "European strategic autonomy", an objective recalled from the first lines of the report annexed to the draft LPM, paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u124	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is a very enthusiastic favourable opinion that I and all the members of the Defence Committee give to this proposal, and I would like to thank you and congratulate you on all the five amendments that you are presenting, which will be the subject of the same opinion. You have done a great deal of work on the issue of outer space, one of our priorities and one of the challenges of this LPM; If we don't understand it, we'll be overtaken and lose the battle of space. Your amendments provide a welcome clarification of the text. Once again, congratulations and thanks for this presentation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u126	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u127	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u128	I cannot welcome this amendment with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u129	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] What a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u130	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Yes, what do you want: history has its reasons. Indeed, the Schwerin agreements, which represent a sort of "Yalta of space" between France and Germany, reserve radar satellites for the first and the second. But the Germans, in fact, torn them apart last December by launching themselves into the manufacture of optical satellites. Germany thus develops its optical satellite capabilities, while France does not do so for radar satellites. Once again, we are the fools of these agreements! In return for these agreements, which were renewed in 2015, we gave Germany the main industrial part of the future medium-altitude and long-endurance drone – MALE – to the point that the Dassault aviation teams were repatriated to France. This shows that, while France respects its European commitments, its partners do not respect theirs: France is indeed fooled. That is why we will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u131	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u132	I don't think we should throw the baby away with the bath water. The Galileo programme allows us Europeans to be independent of the US GPS system...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u133	We can talk about Galileo if you want!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u134	... knowing that we all use a satellite positioning system at least four times a day. Only Europe will allow us to achieve strategic autonomy in this new area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u135	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u136	I do not entirely agree with Mr Lachaud, because space Europe seems to me to be a good example of successful cooperation. If Europe has its own launchers, it is because there has been industrial cooperation. It is the interest of the European Space Agency – known by its English acronym ESA – that plays a very important role in European space policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u137	It's not about ESA here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u138	Thanks to European cooperation, ESA is highly competitive and is one of the world's leading space agencies. ArianeGroupe is composed of French and Germans, but in Arianespace there are Italians, Swedish, Dutch, Spanish... European space cooperation therefore seems to me to be exemplary. The funds allocated to it enable the European Union to exist in this field. I am fundamentally in favour of a Europe of defence, a common security and defence policy, given the threats we face. However, space cooperation provides us with a model that could be transposed for conventional industrial cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u139	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u140	A clarification: here, there is no question of ESA, a beautiful institution that works and needs to be supported. I would point out that it is not the result of European Union cooperation, but of European cooperation outside the EU. France is a centrepiece of this. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You referred to the Galileo programme, the draftswoman for an opinion. But this programme does not depend on ESA: it is a space mission developed through the European Union. And it is precisely because of the decision taken by the European Commission to entrust the construction of the components of the system not to the countries that knew how to do so, but to those who wanted to learn to do so, that this programme has suffered enormous delays. You're gonna say I'm obsessive, and I should go to the psychiatrist, Still! Let me have that sense of humor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u141	They don't have humor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u142	... but it was because the construction of certain components was entrusted to Germany that the Galileo programme was delayed. On the other hand, ESA works well because it brings together only countries that know how and do well. When a programme is attached to the European Union, when the Commission decides which countries will be responsible for which components, it does not work. That is why, Madam draftsman, we do not want to throw ESA with bath water; We want to look at all the partnerships, one after the other. I repeat, to conclude: the Schwerin accords have been torn apart by the Germans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u143	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u144	All industrial cooperation is the result of political will: it is undeniable. However, political projects can succeed as well as suffer delays and even failures. So let's be very careful. With regard to Galileo, Mr Lachaud, this programme has certainly fallen behind, but France alone would never have been able to develop a satellite positioning system. Even if it had had the means and the ambition, it would have been a pity: each country will not develop its own satellite positioning system! Let us stop complaining: of course, the European project has fallen behind, but it is working today, and we are no longer dependent on the United States – which should satisfy you. I therefore maintain the favourable and even enthusiastic opinion that I gave to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u145	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No. 288.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u146	The trivialization of access to outer space, referred to in paragraph 388 of the annexed report, has consequences of two kinds. Only the first-order consequences are taken into account in paragraph 389, which refers to "the ability to detect and attribute a possible suspicious, unfriendly or aggressive act". The second is the increase in the number of space debris resulting from the steady increase in the number of satellites. The risk of collision is increasing: these debris pose a major risk to our strategic space capabilities, without any hostile will. Furthermore, the risks of space weather need to be taken more into account in order to improve the resilience of our satellite network. The monitoring capabilities of outer space will therefore in the future be the condition for the effectiveness – and even survival – of our space assets. The capabilities acquired by our country in recent decades – including the GRAVES system, a large network adapted to space watch – give France a special place among space powers. They have enabled us to develop our collaboration with our allies on a favourable basis. At present, however, our capabilities are not complete, and are partly based on the U.S. SSN network. However, the capacity of this network could be privatized, further limiting our access to these services. As the annexed report points out, it is essential for France and the European Union to acquire these capacities in their own right in order to guarantee their strategic autonomy, an ambition set out in paragraph 5. It is true that France can build capacity alone, but given the importance of the necessary investments and the technological challenges to achieve a full capacity to know the situation in space, it appears that the European level is the most appropriate, given the extent of the resources that can be mobilised and the technological and industrial complementarity of the various States.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u147	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u148	At this stage of the discussion, given what I am hearing, I would like to call Mr Lachaud for more pragmatism. Since yesterday, we have heard a lot of criticism of NATO: but NATO is what allows us to normalize a lot of material, and thus to be more effective on the battlefield. We have also heard a lot of criticism of the European Union: but the European Union, which has just been recalled, allows us to reach a critical mass through which we can compete with our strategic competitors. Other criticisms have been made about the export of military equipment: but these exports allow us to lay bricks of sovereignty, to preserve employment, to further develop our equipment. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] Our colleague is now attacking our cooperation with Germany. In a context of increased global competition, I call for more pragmatism. I also call to meditate on the following adage: alone, we go faster, but together, we go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u149	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No. 310.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u150	This is a precise amendment. One of the main thrusts of this military programming bill is to put our defence efforts within the European framework and to support the effective development of the new European ambition in this area. In paragraph 388, the attached report cites the four most important dimensions of the military space domain: telecommunications, navigation, space surveillance and listening. European initiatives correspond to three of these areas, whether they are already operational, such as the Galileo PRS navigation service or the SSA space monitoring programme, or the state of the project, such as the GovSatCom programme. We welcome the existence of these European projects. In accordance with the guidelines of the Strategic Review and the attached report, we believe that it is necessary to confirm, in the draft law on military programming, that France is committed to carrying out these initiatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u151	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No. 311.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u152	Breakout innovation is the cornerstone of this quinquennium. We must also take this into account when it comes to defence: it is a sine qua non for guaranteeing France's strategic autonomy in the future. The attached report aims to acknowledge the critical importance of space assets, the strengthening of our capabilities, and to put these efforts within a European framework. Paragraph 391 calls on the armed forces to study "the means of mitigating the risks associated with our dependence on outer space". Some technological innovations, some technical developments can help us achieve this goal. These include high-altitude pseudo-satellites, which, to a large extent, render the same services as conventional satellites at a lower cost – or at least complement them. Similarly, in-orbit services make our satellite network more adaptable and thus more resilient. This is why the reference to European cooperation is justified not only by the amount of investment needed, but also by the adequacy of European mechanisms to the risks involved in breaking innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u153	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No. 312.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u154	The design and realization of a satellite takes about ten years for equipment with an equivalent lifetime. In view of the acceleration of technical progress, it becomes extremely risky to guarantee the operational superiority of equipment for twenty years. In space, one solution would be to have an ability to update and upgrade orbital equipment. Currently, in-orbit maintenance is limited to human activities in low-orbiting, but in the future the lifespan of satellites could be extended through automated vehicle in-orbit maintenance. Such a capacity would be truly disruptive. Of course, this technology is only in its infancy, but some of our allies are investing massively in this area. Furthermore, it seems appropriate to leave the list of paragraph 404 open.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u155	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u156	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] I welcome Mrs Bono-Vandorme for this amendment, which deals with very specific spatial issues. It is with pleasure that we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u157	[[Applause on all benches]] Before moving on to Amendment No 358 I would like to pay tribute to the students of the military schools who have come today to attend our debates. I call Mr Gabriel Serville to support Amendment No. 358.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u158	Following a constant position, and for reasons that we have already explained, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left considers it necessary to limit the improvement of nuclear deterrence. We therefore believe that the text of the annexed report on the renewal of nuclear weapons should be deleted. That is why we propose to delete the end of paragraph 409 after the reference to third-generation nuclear submarines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u159	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u160	Mr President, you have no doubt of our answer: we cannot accept the challenge of the airborne component of nuclear deterrence. That is exactly the meaning of your amendment. We talked about it long enough last night. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u161	I call Mr Becht to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u162	The purpose of this amendment is to encourage us to question our naval force. Today we have a single aircraft carrier, the Charles de Gaulle. Regularly, this building undergoes technical revisions, which is normal. These are programmed, therefore predictable and known to our main opponents. This obviously weakens France's sovereignty at sea. However, our country must maintain air-to-air capabilities throughout the oceans, be able to defend our ultramarine possessions and also watch over new issues such as submarine cables. The LPM plans to initiate studies for the renewal of an aircraft carrier. We in the UDI-Agir Group propose that the possibility of several aircraft carriers be mentioned. Although we know that it is not this LPM that will decide and that it is not even within the framework of this quinquennium that their future number will be decided, we nevertheless believe it necessary to keep the door open. Everyone knows how things are going: when it came to replacing the Foch and the Clemenceau, it was first planned to build three aircraft carriers, then two and, finally, it was one. Displaying in this LPM the ambition of having only one aircraft carrier even though the possibility of replacing the Charles de Gaulle with two buildings seems to us delicate. We propose not to insult the future by including in the text the possibility of having a new aircraft carrier or carriers". This would not cost a penny since studies would be of exactly the same amount for one or two.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u163	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u164	The opinion is unfortunately unfavourable for two reasons. The first is that if we do not want to insult the future, we must start, at least now, on the duration of this LPM, studies for the replacement of Charles de Gaulle. We do not know exactly when this aircraft carrier will be removed since the date will only be known at its last major technical stop, that is in 2037. It is therefore not known whether it will be in 2040, 2041 or even 2039. Today, for example, among our current nuclear attack submarines, one can be extended and not the other, while they have been built and used in the same way. So we will not know until 2037, but we must prepare for it by starting the studies now. The second reason seals our disagreement, Mr Becht: the operational contracts defined by the Strategic Review – to which I refer, do not dislike you – and which are therefore included in the attached report, provide for a single aircraft group, and therefore a single aircraft carrier. The French doctrine is now based on this figure. That this doctrine evolves in the years to come, we will see, but it will be a purely strategic decision and, as such, taken by the then President of the Republic. In any case, we must start the studies and then see, depending on the geopolitical context and the degree of progress of the cooperation with our most technically capable Western allies, how to set up this permanence at the sea which you call your wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u165	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u166	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u167	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u168	Before coming to our colleague's amendment, I note that the Alsatians, however far from the sea, are constantly defending the navy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u169	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u170	The aircraft carrier is under arrest for 18 months. In such a long time, one cannot speak of doctrine, it is simply that one walks on a leg. In the past, France has had two aircraft carriers. I know that this is not just a second aircraft carrier but a complete aircraft group. The cost is not limited to the 3 billion or 4 billion of the ship alone; It is necessary to take into account the complete set, with absolutely considerable financial stakes. But if we have the ambition of having an airplane carrier at sea, we need it to be there all the time. An intermittent carrier is not a doctrine: it is a poorly assumed budgetary situation. That's the reality. We're very proud of the aircraft carrier, of the aircraft group, but it's still a terrible handicap to have only one. Although preparatory studies are too expensive, it is known that building a second aircraft carrier in the wake of the first one is about 30% cheaper. There's a whole lot of thinking to be done on an aircraft carrier. Many elements are to be taken into account, such as the propulsion mode or the boiler room – are our turbines still turbines of the future or do they have to be modernised, make them more powerful? What plane to land on that aircraft carrier? There are many questions to ask, but if we answer them for the first time, we must also ask ourselves the question of permanence at sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u171	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u172	The aircraft carrier is a subject that raises very legitimate questions. I would point out that the priority is to launch studies in time so that, when the time comes, i.e. outside the temporal scope of this military programming law, decisions can be taken. The attached report fully takes into account the question posed by each other: when the decision to replace the Charles de Gaulle is to be taken, will it concern the construction of one or two aircraft carriers? Let's read paragraph 411: The studies will "launch a possible advance order for a new aircraft carrier. This sentence opens the possibility that at that time there are two aircraft carriers in operation, not one. If we have to admit that we have not yet reached this deadline, there is nothing in this text to prevent, if the decision is taken, the construction of two.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u173	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u174	The second aircraft carrier issue is important for several reasons. First of all, France, the world's second largest maritime territory, has duties vis-à-vis this territory. It is known, however, that aircraft carriers are not necessarily the most capable of guaranteeing their sovereignty at sea. However, how can we not subscribe to Mr. Furst's analysis? If we decide to have an airborne group, it's for him to be at the sea all the time. It's a cost. Can we afford it, or, rather, do we need it? We must have a calm and precise debate on the issues at stake for our navy. At the moment, I will not say that it is not necessary. I hear the minister's reading of paragraph 411. The terms "early order" certainly open the possibility of having two aircraft carriers until the withdrawal of the Charles de Gaulle service – which would leave us only one. I find it wise to vote on Mr Becht's amendment, because at least we would open the door to possible amendments. I would like to remind the rapporteur that the number of aircraft carriers is an important strategic decision. And for us, it is not only the President, whatever he may be and whatever his qualities, that it is up to Parliament to decide it, but to the representatives of national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u175	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u176	I thank the Minister for her openness on the subject. I agree that the LPM maintains the ambition of a second aircraft carrier, but I think it would be a good idea to reaffirm it, not just in relation to our ultramarine possessions. Let me remind you that 90 per cent of world trade is still going through the sea, and that our country must therefore maintain its sovereignty and rank over the seas. I hope that our children do not have one day to pronounce this sentence of Cardinal Richelieu: "The tears of our sovereigns have the salty taste of the sea that they have ignored. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u177	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u178	I believe that the wording of paragraph 411 nevertheless puts us in a funnel, Madam Minister. You tell us that we are going to conduct studies and that we will take it after the decision, either to wait for the removal of the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier to put a new one in service, or to anticipate it to produce for a certain time a tile effect, making temporarily coexist two aircraft carriers. The trouble is, it will be a little late, because when we go to school, we won't look for the same things according to the option in sight. If only one aircraft carrier is envisaged after the Charles de Gaulle's withdrawal, one sees great, one makes a large aircraft carrier, powerful and of great capacity. If you think that you might order two of them, like the Foch and the Clemenceau in the 1960s, you can see smaller ones and you don't study the same type of aircraft carrier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u179	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u180	I therefore believe that the options should be left more open at this stage. To this end, Mr Olivier Becht's amendment is quite wise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u181	Good talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u182	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 122.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u183	This issue really deserves to be clarified, given the importance it will have in the years to come – our discussions show this. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] With this amendment, our colleague Philippe Gosselin proposes that the Government submit to Parliament, before the end of the quinquennium, a report on the studies to be carried out prior to the construction of a new aircraft carrier. This amendment, the minister, has two objectives: it intends to take date, since time is running out, and to involve Parliament in these decisions – if, however, it still exists after constitutional reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u186	I recognize the humour of our excellent colleague Thibault Bazin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u187	We've known him better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u188	I will be very clear, and my answer will be valid for many of the amendments that we are going to consider. You are wondering about the role of Parliament in the years to come, but there is also a question about the role of the Government. For my part, I do not want the bulk of his work to be to draft reports. I shall therefore express an unfavorable, and even extremely unfavourable, view of all the amendments calling for a report to the Government. In addition, the report you are asking for here concerns studies: after the studies and the report, you will still want to take stock, and a study of this assessment? Studies will be carried out, which will meet specific specifications, as indicated in the attached report. Let us begin these studies and wait for their conclusions. I am confident that the Government will communicate them to us, at the very least that it will inform the Defence and Armed Forces Commission. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u190	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u191	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u192	Mr rapporteur, I understand the meaning of your answer, but if parliamentarians ask for a certain amount of information and clarification, and therefore for reports, it is because they feel the need to be more and better informed. It seems to me that we cannot, as you do, close the door to any communication of information to Parliament. We need communication, we need to know more, we need to know better, we need work bases and discussion bases. We do not ask for the equivalent of the Encyclopaedia Universalis, nor for a communication from the French Academy. We are simply asking for information. I can understand your answer, in a sense. If you do not want to hear about a report, let us at least talk about communication: the channel of communication must be maintained, and parliamentarians must be able to ask the Government for complete and detailed information on a number of topics. I find your answer, Mr rapporteur, too firm, too strong and too easy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u193	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u194	The issue is important. Every year, we vote for the defence. To effectively accompany our forces, we must have the means to fulfil our role. But our role is not only to vote for credits, but also to monitor the action of the Government, which announces studies, and to evaluate public policies. Everyone knows the importance of this aircraft carrier in our military doctrine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u195	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u196	I would like to make two points. First of all, Mr Furst, Mr Bazin, you are both very diligent members of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, which I welcome, because we have a good debate. You can testify that all the questions that we have asked the Government and the military, industrial and administrative leaders who make up the defence community have received very detailed and very precise answers, without a language of wood, without any recourse to defence secrecy or anything else. We cannot say that there is no direct link between the executive and the legislature, at least at the level of our committee. I therefore do not see very well what an additional report would bring. You'd probably be the only two reading it, and I doubt it's touching a wide circle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u197	We'd read it too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u198	Secondly, without wishing to upset my excellent colleague Charles de la Verpillière, when we finally come to Article 6, I will be able to present Amendment No 281, which provides that the Government regularly presents us with a detailed account of all the actions contained in this military programming law, including the delivery of orders for large equipment. A little patience, colleagues! When we come to Article 6, you will have answers to all your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u199	We're perfectly Zen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u200	I call Mr Fabien Lainé to support Amendment No. 240.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u201	Good news, I won't ask you to report! Not with this amendment, at least... This concerns the Directorate-General for Armaments – DGA – which we discussed at length yesterday. After paragraph 412, we propose to insert the following sentence: "In view of the ambitious programmes mentioned above, the Directorate-General for Armaments will be allocated the human resources necessary for their proper implementation. » This leadership has seen a significant reduction in the number of staff in recent years, and is now being asked to implement extremely ambitious programmes. I am thinking of the future air combat system – SCAF – the new M 51 missile format or the new Rafale standard. In order to reassure us and reassure the staff of the DGA, can you tell us, Madam Minister, what additional resources you intend to devote to the DGA under this military programming act?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u203	Your question is certainly legitimate, but you will find the answer in the text itself. It states that the Directorate-General for Armaments will, for the monitoring of export orders and contracts, increase its staff. It is 400 additional positions that will be created, and the Minister of the Armed Forces will distribute them among the various branches of the department that follow these orders and contracts. This amendment is therefore satisfactory, and the provisions I have mentioned are detailed in the text. The distribution of positions, on the other hand, is the responsibility of the Minister of the Armed Forces, not that of Parliament. With regard to the downsizing of the DGA, it would not be so serious if the DGA were the only branch of the department to have suffered such a fate. But this was also the case of the three armed forces, as well as support services and others. Everyone has suffered, and some have suffered even more than the DGA. This military programming law, in any case, makes a great effort towards the DGA, with the 400 additional posts I have mentioned, in order to improve the monitoring of export orders and contracts. I therefore invite you to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u205	Same opinion. I refer you to the excellent report of the Defence Committee. It is specified, on page 33, that of the 6,000 new posts provided for under this military programming law, 892 will be assigned to the DGA. I would also like to point out, as the rapporteur has done, that DGA is not the only Directorate to benefit from these new posts: the table on page 33 summarizes all the services which will benefit from them. We therefore have no substantive disagreement, but a small disagreement on the form. I do not want your amendment to minimize the scale of the effort we are making to create troops under this military programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u206	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u207	Thank you for your answers, which actually satisfy me. This amendment was a way of raising this issue, and I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u208	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u209	The defence industry must be seen not only as a provider of jobs and wealth, but also as a component of the power, and therefore of the independence of France. That is why it is essential that it be independent itself. His well-known and recognized know-how contributes to the influence and influence of our country. The figures speak for themselves: with 14 billion euros in orders in 2016, France ranks third among the world's arms-exporting countries, after the United States and Russia. National know-how and constant investment in research and development explain this success. This sector represents 5000 companies of all sizes and more than 165,000 jobs in hundreds of trades. But, beyond the commercial successes abroad, the equipment of the French armed forces is and must remain the primary concern of this defence industry. That is why it must be given the means to meet the needs of our forces, so that France's defence is autonomous and its equipment is efficient. The AIF programme – a future individual weapon – mentioned in this report, which provides for the delivery of 93340 HK416 assault rifles by the end of 2025, is a typical example of the abandonment of the national sector, which has led the French army to obtain supplies from a German manufacturer. In the aviation sector, European cooperation shows its limits when it comes to designing a fighter such as Eurofighter Typhoon or a transport aircraft such as the A400M. Differences in terms of specifications and know-how penalize all countries participating in these programmes. Far from calling into question European cooperation in armaments, I would like to point out that France has its own needs and that its autonomy in this field is of strategic interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u211	Ménard, I don't know what you mean by "independent industry." We can talk about an independent state or strategic autonomy, but what is an independent industry, especially at a time when our industries, to exist, must have an international dimension? All French or Franco-European groups working in the field of defence have an international development strategy, which does not prevent them from being independent. And independent of what, exactly? I do not understand very well the meaning of your amendment. For my part, I will stick to the drafting of the text, which says that the French defence industry is an essential component of France's strategic autonomy. It seems to me that this sentence responds to your concern for independence – even though I have not understood very well whether you are talking about independence from foreign capital or whether you are thinking of a risk of foreign attack. In any case, the text affirms that industry is an essential component of France's strategic autonomy. I find this wording satisfactory, and I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u212	Madam Chair, could you please grant us a suspension of the sitting?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u213	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u214	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u215	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 127.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u216	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u217	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 316.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u218	There is no sovereignty or strategic autonomy without industrial autonomy, nor an army worthless without a strong industrial and technological defence base. It should be added that there is no defence industry without strategic government industrial pilotage, both in terms of command and allocation, as well as in terms of investment, research and defence. The amendment aims to strengthen the tools of knowledge of the defence industrial and technological base – BITD – in particular the fabric of defence SMEs, in particular through the creation of systematic indicators, for better coordination between the departments of the Ministry of Armed Forces and increased support for defence economics research.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u220	Forgive me, dear colleague, but I will have to give an unfavorable opinion for two reasons. One is that the follow-up to the IBTD is already an integral part of the tasks of the Directorate-General for Armaments. The other is that the minister asked the minister to propose in-depth reforms to improve this follow-up. It is better not to include these necessary reforms, the results of which are expected, in an overly binding legislative framework. I therefore suggest that you withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u222	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u223	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u224	I am satisfied with the rapporteur's answer. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u225	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 313.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u226	The purpose of this amendment is to mention in the annexed report the Defence-SME Pact, presented by the Ministry of Defence on 27 November 2012. This "Think SME" initiative, which was supported by the French BITD, chose the integration of SMEs and ITEs into the procurement strategy of the Ministry of Defence. With this mention, the attached report would confirm the path established by the Defence-SME Pact and the objectives of growth, innovation and competitiveness set by the LPM in favour of SMEs in the sector. The aim is to focus on support for innovative enterprises, which is a key factor in the vitality of the BIDT.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u227	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor to support Amendment No. 314.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u228	As of 2019, the Ministry of Armed Forces' annual support for innovation will increase from an average of 730 million euros in the previous military programming law to 1 billion euros. This €270 million budget increase includes several key objectives. Among them, the desire to capture more innovation from the civil market, to continue to support the maturation of defence-specific technologies, to better invest in breaking innovation, and finally to strengthen the active fabric of innovative SMEs and ETIs, which actively contribute to the technological competitiveness of France. The RAPID – support scheme for dual innovation – which aims to subsidise dual-use, civil and defence innovation projects, carried out by independent companies with less than 2000 employees, meets all the objectives. Indeed, this programme is dedicated only to SMEs and ETIs who are precisely participating in a high level of innovation by maintaining key competences for the maturation of defence technologies and by designing breakthrough innovations. The scheme is specifically geared towards dual technologies and thus plays a key role in capturing innovation from civil markets, which is indeed essential, since, for some 20 years, the paradigm seems to have changed. In many areas, it is the civilian who takes the lead in the innovation race, in particular thanks to the number of developments carried out by an active fabric of SMEs and ETIs. This programme benefits from an extremely positive feedback from SMEs and ETIs in the sector, very satisfied with its speed of implementation and its proven effectiveness. This is why the RAPID scheme, which is inherently in line with the objectives of increasing support for innovation, would benefit from being further supported by the budget increase. A substantial part of the additional €270 million could thus be allocated to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u230	I understand your intention, but the amendment seems to me to be largely satisfactory. I invite you to reread the second sentence of paragraph 417: the effort of 270 million "will benefit the entire BITD, and more particularly the start-ups and SMEs in the sector, or those likely to bring about breaking innovations. » It is then specified that the existing industrial support schemes – including RAPID, which, in everyone's opinion, plays its role, and the Definvest investment fund, launched by the Minister at the end of 2017 – will eventually be completed. The amendment does not seem to me to propose anything more. I therefore suggest that you remove it. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u232	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u233	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u234	If the existing industrial support arrangements are completed, I shall withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u235	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 315.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u236	The aim of this amendment is to promote, through a logic of evolution of the procurement process of the Ministry of Armed Forces, the current purchase of innovative products without going through weapons programmes from major contractors. In order to exempt innovative companies from the default competition imposed by the Public Procurement Code, the amendment directly encourages the inclusion of innovative approaches as the first criterion in the invitations to tender by the Ministry of Armed Forces to SMEs and ETIs in the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u238	Mr Chalumeau, the provisions you wish to insert at the end of paragraph 417 have already been largely satisfied, since there has been an inter-ministerial arrangement in recent years which, like the one on the financing of OPEX, includes the Ministry of Armed Forces. The state, its operators and public hospitals are committed to carrying out in 2020 – almost tomorrow – 2% of innovative public purchases. This corresponds, for the public order mentioned, to almost 60 billion per year. These 2% – the overall figure for all departments – include, by definition, purchases by the Ministry of Armed Forces. This ministry will have to be asked how it intends to meet these requirements, but I consider, in my capacity as rapporteur, that your amendment is satisfied. So I ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u240	Of course, we share the desire to see the share of SMEs and ITEs grow in public procurement. This department is working on this, as we are well above the 2% threshold. However, it cannot be stipulated for others. This is what this amendment does, since it assigns an objective in terms of innovative purchases to public procurement, which is considered in the broad sense. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that there are a number of rules, sometimes very restrictive, which could be counterproductive to the achievement of this objective. I fully agree with your intention, but I cannot agree with its transcription, as it appears in this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u241	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u242	I see that innovation is at the heart of the MPA and I am fully satisfied with the answers of the Minister and the rapporteur. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u243	I have before me two amendments, Nos 236 and 237, which can be presented together. Mrs Frédérique Lardet has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u244	Minister, we know the importance of your commitment to the development of defence SMEs. The aim of Amendment No 236 is to draw your attention once again to the growing difficulties faced by our SMEs and ETIs in the arms industry in obtaining financing from French banks. The complexity of exports, the lack of image, the restrictions imposed beyond national and international legal frameworks are all obstacles that lead some banks to become increasingly disengaged from the defence industry. The economic consequences of these disengagements, you imagine, can be heavy: job losses, but also foreign investors buy back. To remedy this situation, and in addition to the Definvest scheme – an investment fund specialising in supporting SMEs with strategic potential in the defence sector – which will concern some 30 SMEs a year, and which is an element of high-profile security, this amendment aims to launch a reflection on the creation of a national certification, a "defence" label. This certification would help to build the image of SMEs in the field of defence and thus provide them with greater security vis-à-vis the banking sector in order to obtain financing. The purpose of Amendment No 237 is to insert, after paragraph 418, the following subparagraph: "A consultation will be initiated with the banks with a view to improving the transparency and harmonisation of their due diligence criteria. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u245	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u246	Thank you for your amendments, Mrs Lardet. You are pointing out a problem which, unfortunately, is not specific to the Ministry of the Armed Forces, but is explained by the banks' chilliness in financing all projects, mainly those geared towards innovation. The fate of breaking innovation is even more unfavourable. That is why the Government has set up an investment fund within the Ministry of Armed Forces to alleviate this difficulty faced by companies, especially start-ups. Nevertheless, I am not convinced that the problem is solved by creating an ISO label. If that were the case, it would be easy, and it would probably have been done a long time ago. I don't think ISO will ease the banks' chill. I understand your intention, but I do not think, unfortunately, that it is effective. My reflection is the same with regard to your amendment No 237, in which you propose a consultation with the banks. Again, this is a good intention, but I think we need to go much further. I will therefore ask you to withdraw these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u248	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u249	Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u250	With regard to Amendment No 236, the question of the de-risking of bank portfolios concerns a much wider area than that of defence. It is due to both credit factors and compliance issues. With regard to Amendment No 237, if it were to take place, consultation should not only take place with the banks, but also, for example, with the International Financial Action Task Force (IF Task Force) or the Supervisory and Resolution Authority (ACPR), which are key players on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u251	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u252	There are two reasons why we are opposed to these amendments. Firstly, we consider that the banks today do not invest in real production, whereas they are watered by the European Central Bank with hundreds of billions to promote economic activity. As we know, these billions fly into speculation and financial investments. The result is a bank's investment deficit in the real economy. It is therefore not the creation of an ISO certification that will solve this problem, but the end of the independence of the European Central Bank and its network member banks. Secondly, weapons are not goods like the others, as the rapporteur explained. Arms exports are exceptions authorized by the Government. I do not want an ISO label to give the impression that the defence and arms industry is an industry like any other. This is not the case, it is an industry that depends on the state, if only for obtaining authorizations. This status should not be changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u253	Mrs Frédérique Lardet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u254	I withdraw both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u255	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor to support Amendment No. 241.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u256	The purpose of Amendment No 241 is to insert a paragraph after paragraph 418. The aim is not to neglect the use of more rustic technologies, whose efficiency is no longer to be demonstrated in the field. As members of the military often say, state-of-the-art equipment is needed, but the commitment must be able to deal with the most basic situations. That is why we propose that you take into account the development of materials with reasoned technology. This ecosystem would have several advantages: simpler uses, cheaper production and maintenance, and more reasonable replacement costs. This should not, in our mind, contradict the challenges of innovation and high technology. We propose a form of complementarity, for the purpose of efficiency, in the performance of missions. This technologically reasoned equipment would also represent a significant export opportunity. Real needs are expressed in this regard. This offer of efficient and less expensive equipment can thus create links between the State, purely military interests and industrial interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u258	I will make two comments on your amendment, Mrs Poueyto. Firstly, the need for hardness that you stress is already taken into account in the programmes developed by the Directorate-General for Armaments. Hardiness is not the opposite of new technologies. Both types of material may coexist. Hardiness characterizes robust equipment that can be operated very easily. The second reason for my unfavorable opinion, or at least my request for withdrawal, which I had already put forward in committee, is that you are proposing additional programmes. However, the Military Programming Act already contains commitments relating to a number of programmes, which have resulted in orders and accelerated deliveries. If your amendment had not dealt with the attached report, it would not have passed the filter of Article 40 of the Constitution, and you could not have presented it. Let's pay attention to what we're asking for. This programming law cannot require the creation of additional programmes. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, even if I understand your intention to show the interest of hardness and reasoned equipment – which, as you stress, can favour exports. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u260	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u261	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u262	I am appreciative of the rapporteur's reply, which is in line with my proposal. I understand the arguments he has put forward and, consequently, I withdraw my amendment. I wanted to represent him today, because he is responding to a real expectation from our military.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u263	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u264	I call Mr Becht to support Amendment No. 121.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u265	This amendment is also the result of the work of the information mission on the stakes of the digitisation of armies, which I am leading with Thomas Gassilloud. It appeared to us that alongside classical innovation, which is essentially descendant – top-down – there is participatory innovation. Our soldiers are daily on the ground facing materials and may also have ideas for improving them. We therefore hope that the ministry will include participatory innovation in its strategy, in a bottom-up sense – bottom-up – to improve mechanisms. This is not intended to be generalized, but it is worth considering for some programmes, in order to further increase technological innovation at the service of our people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u267	Mr Becht, in my view, your amendment is satisfied with the actions currently being carried out by the Directorate-General for Armaments. Indeed, it has created a mission on participatory innovation, which carries out important work in support of the innovations brought by military personnel. It will be necessary to examine the conclusions – I hope positive – that DGA has drawn from this work. In any event, as your amendment is satisfied, I would ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u269	I fully agree with the intention expressed in this amendment, since innovation, the ability to mobilize the Department's strengths, is one of the priority modernization projects I have undertaken in recent months. The only thing that bothers me in your amendment is that it is based on the current state of organization of our department, which I cannot commit to keeping as it is. I agree a thousand times with the objective you are pursuing, but, as the rapporteur has said, your amendment is largely satisfactory. Also, I'd rather you take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u270	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u271	We are obviously satisfied with the department's consideration of these observations and withdraw the amendment. I just wanted to point out that we had withdrawn from the original amendment, which had been tabled in committee, the reference to the DGA's "participatory innovation" mission, in order precisely to satisfy the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u272	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor to support Amendment No. 318.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u273	The military programming bill 2019-2025 recalls the importance of a strong French defence industry, characterized by a very high level of research and development, which contributes to the strengthening of the innovation culture. In particular, the research effort will benefit start-ups, SMEs and ITEs in the sector that are likely to bring break-up innovations. In this context, Defence-lab and DGA services must ensure the proper development of this comprehensive ecosystem of innovative companies, which contribute to France's competitiveness and technological excellence. In order to encourage the growth of these enterprises, DGA will have to ensure that equipment contracts are concluded directly with start-ups, SMEs and French ETIs that innovate. Strong support for these companies could therefore lead to lower costs for industrial players, thus increasing international competitiveness. This could lead to an increase in exports, which is largely in favour of the development of start-ups, SMEs and ETIs in the defence sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u275	Mrs Guerel, I am very concerned about your amendment. We have debated the subject in committee: we all agree to encourage these break-up innovations, which are sometimes brought by SMEs, start-ups, in any case by civil society. IBTD's major groups need to be able to benefit from this contribution of breaking technologies and innovations. Your amendment seems to me to be satisfied with paragraph 429, which is contained in the section on the in-depth reform of the Directorate-General for Armaments. This paragraph states that one of its tasks will be "to better incorporate innovation from industry and the civil sector and to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by the digital revolution". I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u277	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u278	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u279	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u280	Mr Jean-Michel Jacques has the floor to support Amendment No. 344.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u281	The aim of this amendment, which complements paragraph 445, is to focus on simplifying the acquisition of small equipment, which is subject to the same procedures as major programmes. The current procurement procedures, governed mainly by Ministerial Instruction No. 1516, do not allow equipment forces to be provided in a timely manner, whereas today technological cycles are increasingly short. Our enemies don't have that problem. In Mosul, Daesh changed his drones two to three times a month to make them more murderous, while, for our soldiers, ordering a small observation drone takes between a year and a half and two years. As you can see, we are no longer in an asymmetrical position to our advantage. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in order to give our army the reactivity it deserves, I ask you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u282	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u283	We have discussed this issue in the last few weeks, in committee and with the Minister of Armed Forces. The current wording of your amendment is satisfactory for everyone. I am therefore in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u284	I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 199.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u285	The aim of this amendment is to remove the NATO defence objective of 2% of gross domestic product – GDP – above ground. The GDR Group prefers it objectives linked to the international situation, considering that linking the investments to a disembodied figure could be counterproductive. It is on the basis of international security and the geopolitical, geostrategic and global military situation that the military budget must be formulated. In short, the budget must be adapted to the overall situation, not empirically hung up to a percentage of GDP, which could prove to be both overvalued and undervalued. We therefore propose, in paragraph 447 of the annexed report, to replace the words "to 2% of GDP" with the words "the national defence budget".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u286	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u287	We discussed this issue last night. I am sorry, but we do not agree on this point. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u288	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u289	We are not going to repeat the debates of the night, but I cannot let this amendment pass without recalling that the prospect of increasing the defence effort to 2% of GDP by 2025 is the backbone of this military programming law. You will understand that, in a spirit of consistency, I cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u290	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u291	To illustrate what has just been said, I will quote Seneca: "There is no favorable wind for those who do not know where they are going. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u292	Mr Philippe Folliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u293	As chairman of the French delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I would like to say that I am somewhat embarrassed by the "NATOphobia" of some of our colleagues. I would like to point out that substantive work is being carried out, which includes parliamentary scrutiny, if only through our delegation, composed of colleagues from all groups. Moreover, as the rapporteur and the minister rightly said, this 2% target corresponds not only to a commitment made by all NATO members, but also to a vital requirement. It is fundamental to ensure the credibility of our military tool and the effectiveness of our armed forces. Previous military programming laws provided for reductions in appropriations and personnel. We can only welcome the fact that this law is a break with this logic. I therefore believe that a majority of us will not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u294	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u295	The 2% target is good. In the general discussion, I said that when we reason in budgetary terms over a long period of time, there may be monetary erosion depending on inflation. Reasoning as a percentage of GDP allows us to avoid this pitfall. However, the Republican Group believes that this rate of 2% should be calculated excluding pensions. I called pensions a "sioux trick" a few hours ago. It is important to define the scope of the objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u296	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u297	At this stage of our discussion, I do not want the debate on NATO to be revived.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u298	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u299	I agree with Seneca: we need a course. I also agree with the minister: we are vertebrates and we need a spine. However, is the 2% target really our heading and spine? A military programming law must set a target, but reaching a rate of 2% is not one! The objective should be to give our armies the means to carry out the tasks that the politicians entrust to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u300	That's what they say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u301	Whether 2%, 1.8% or 2.3% does not matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u302	You're repeating yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u303	I have the right to state my position on an amendment. Others also repeat themselves, when they say "Stop NATOphobia! "Long live NATO!" and "Long live NATO! "But you don't mind! The course, I said, is to give our armies the means to carry out their missions. That's not the rate of 2%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u304	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u305	I do not wish to repeat last night's debate, in which I was unable to participate, but I would like to reassure you that the members of the GDR Group do not suffer from NATOphobia, but they simply want to be pragmatic. That is why I explained that this rate of 2% could ultimately be overvalued or undervalued. If it is necessary to exceed 2%, will it be possible to do so? The debate is not so much about this rate of 2 per cent as it is about the question, as Mr Lachaud has said at the moment, of the means that we want to make available to our armies so that they can properly carry out the tasks assigned to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u306	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u307	That is why I maintain this amendment and will defend the following amendments, which are in line with the same logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u308	I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 200.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u309	For consistency, this amendment is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u310	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u311	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u313	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u314	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u315	I've known armies under the poverty line. It is essential to maintain this course, which is not at all disembodied or out-of-ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u316	I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 198.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u317	At the risk of repeating myself, I would point out that the objective is not to plunge the armies into misery. I'm just saying I don't know if the 2% target is the right one. We may need a lower rate, as well as a higher rate, and we will have to be able to do so. There is no question of misery or wealth: it is a question of being in an approach of absolute pragmatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u318	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, in support of Amendment No 359.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u319	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u320	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u321	It is intended to delete, at the end of paragraph 464, the words: "and will enable the renewal of both components to be undertaken while ensuring that the permanent posture of deterrence is maintained. We believe that all of this deserves debate. This removal would not prevent us from initiating this renewal, but would prevent it from being imposed on us without debate. It is an amendment of common sense, which defends the rights of Parliament. We must have control over such important strategic and economic choices, having the opportunity to debate them as we do today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u322	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u323	Mr Corbière, you have been more consistent in defending your amendments. If I understand correctly, you want to retain the EUR 25 billion investment allocated to the modernisation of the components, but you want to remove the mechanism for the renewal of the airborne component. This will make a lot of money for the only renewal of ocean components! I have an unfavorable opinion, which will not surprise you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u324	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u325	This amendment was tabled by my colleague and friend Patrick Hetzel. We have heard from the Richelieu Committee and know that the army is an important donor. France has seven major industrial groups, but also a fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have relations with the army and which have many expectations in terms of public orders. Our country must have a real industrial strategy, and this must be based on a specific reflection on the relations between the major groups and the fabric of SMEs, which is a real wealth and a potential for a considerable future. Patrick Hetzel, whose economic powers are very specific, proposes, through this amendment, that a report be submitted to Parliament. I know, Mr rapporteur, that you have strongly expressed your opposition to any request for a report. However, it seems to me to be common sense, because it is building the future. He's drawing a way forward for our economic fabric. Never forget, ladies and gentlemen, that today's SMEs are the big companies of tomorrow and are a force for regeneration. The report requested must form the basis for a reflection in which parliamentarians must be involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u326	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u327	I have announced earlier that I will issue an opinion which is unfavourable to any request for a report. As a result, I am not unaware of the problem raised by Mr Hetzel. I propose, as before on other matters, that our committee take up the problem and carry out an in-depth work. We started talking to the Richelieu Committee. I am very much in favour of us taking up these problems in order to move forward, but on the request for a report, it is no.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u328	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u329	We are very attentive to the development of SMEs. The SME Pact association created in 2010 has produced tangible results. However, we are not satisfied with it. That is why we have embarked on a new approach to updating it, so that the Ministry of Armed Forces can play an even more leading role in the development of SMEs and ITEs. We will of course be at your disposal, ladies and gentlemen, to report as much as necessary, as is the rule, on the activities of the Government in Parliament. If I agree with the direction of the amendment, I do not think it necessary to mention in the text of the law that the Government is at the disposal of Parliament to report to it and inform it as much as it wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u330	That goes without saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u331	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u332	I share the concerns of our colleague, Mr Furst. However, I agree with President Bridey that the fact-finding missions we are carrying out in the committee allow for more information and data to be collected. We can, within the framework of the hearings, conduct a constructive dialogue on these issues, whereas a government report is essentially static. I therefore agree with the view that the committee should take up the matter through fact-finding missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u333	Mr Philippe Folliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u334	On the form, I agree with what Mr Becht and the chairman of the committee have just said. In substance, Mr Furst's question deals with a real problem. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to a point I have already raised with some of your predecessors: the allocation of defence procurement. This is an important, essential and fundamental issue, especially for some SMEs. Let us take, for example, the clothing function. If the Ministry of Defence orders several tens of thousands of units at once, the production can only be carried out by foreign companies, the only ones able to respond to the mass effect. On the other hand, with an intelligent allocation policy, French SMEs, in my constituency and elsewhere in the national territory, could meet the demand. All at stake is to define a form of intelligent public order that can both meet important defence needs and maintain our industrial fabric by supporting activities in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u335	I call Mr Bridey to support Amendment No. 368.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u336	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u337	Mr Olivier Gaillard, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to support Amendment No. 140.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u338	Mr Cornut-Gentille had tabled an identical amendment, No 77 corrected, which we examined in the Committee on Finance. It was intended, as in Amendment No 140, to clarify the practical arrangements for dialogue between the Ministry of Armed Forces and Parliament, fully in line with the ongoing modernisation of Parliament with a view to strengthening its powers of control and evaluation. It is not a question of going back to the exception provided for in section 57 of the Financial Laws Organization Act, but simply of ensuring that the minister in charge of the armed forces is able to justify the non-transmission of certain classified documents. Both amendments received a favourable opinion from the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u339	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u340	I shall make two remarks, without wishing to interfere in the debates in the Committee on Finance, whose legitimacy I respect. The first is semantic. I do not see how the Government can be asked to justify classifying information. What is classified cannot be disclosed. So how can we motivate the classification of information? I also understand the need for a transparent dialogue between the Standing Committees of the National Assembly and the Government, but I doubt that it falls within the scope of the law. If it is necessary to include the modalities of the relations between Parliament and the Government, the law will be more than talkative! I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment, Mr President-in-Office. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u341	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u342	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u343	Mr Olivier Gaillard, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u344	It is simply a question of motivating the non-transmission of certain documents. I maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u345	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u346	I confess that I do not understand the reasons for your negative opinion on the amendment, Mr rapporteur. It is intended only to ensure that Parliament receives from the Ministry of the Armed Forces the information it requests while ensuring that it classifies what must be classified, which does not pose a particular problem, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u347	But it is not a matter of law either!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u348	On the basis of the argument you have just put forward, does Article 6b, which you have made the creation of in committee, fall within the scope of the law? It deals with the relationship between certain parliamentary commissions and the Government in the implementation of the Military Programming Act. What is true in one case is true in the other. I think the amendment is entirely justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u349	Mr François André has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u350	Unlike Mr Lachaud, I believe that the adoption by the committee of the amendment establishing Article 6b deprives Amendment No 140 of its object. Article 6b is a step forward, because it recalls in the hard of law – and not in the attached report – the importance of Parliament's oversight mission. Its last paragraph, of memory, secures it with regard to classified information. By adopting Rule 6b in committee, we have made progress. The latter correctly oversees the oversight role of parliamentarians with regard to the implementation of the military programming law. It therefore renders the amendment which we are debating here obsolete.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u351	I call Mr Olivier Gaillard, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 141.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u352	[[Smile]] I do not hope to benefit from the benevolence of the rapporteur! This amendment, accepted by the Finance Committee, is intended to ensure a budgetary implementation of the military programming law that is consistent with the intended trajectory. However, President Bridey tabled an amendment creating an additional Article after Rule 6b and providing for an information mechanism for Parliament on this point. I, for my part, have tabled a sub-amendment to this amendment stating that the Finance Committees of the National Assembly and the Senate are also receiving the semi-annual review provided for in the amendment. I am therefore prepared to withdraw this amendment subject to the adoption of Subamendment No 375 to Amendment No 281.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u353	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u354	A little bit of humor, Mr draftsman: if I understand correctly, you are prepared to withdraw your amendment provided that I issue an opinion in favour of your sub-amendment on an amendment which we will debate only later! We're not here. For the time being, we are finalizing the examination of Article 2, which is already good news. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment and, failing that, issue an unfavorable opinion. That will also be the case with regard to the following amendment, which Mr Fesneau will defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u355	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u356	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u357	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor to support Amendment No. 321 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u358	I will try to convince you, Mr rapporteur, even if, obviously, you already have an agreed feeling on Amendment No 321. It aims to strengthen parliamentary oversight of the implementation of the military programming law by providing for the Government to provide Parliament with a detailed biannual review and an annual report on the implementation of the appropriations. The aim is to re-establish two provisions of the previous military programming law, which covers the period 2014-2019, and to affirm in anticipation the consistency between the chapter of the attached report on parliamentary oversight and chapter II of Title I of the bill, created by an amendment by our rapporteur adopted in committee. It is also committed to parliamentary scrutiny and we believe that it should eventually incorporate the two obligations of the biannual review and the annual report. The first was proposed by our rapporteur in committee in the form of an amendment, withdrawn to be rewritten and discussed at a later stage. The second was the subject of an amendment by our group discussed in committee, which we tabled again for consideration in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u359	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u360	My opinion on the amendment is not strictly unfavourable. I agree with you, my colleague, that I myself have tabled several amendments on this subject, in particular Amendment No 281. I therefore propose that you withdraw yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u361	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u362	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u363	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u364	I have the feeling that our amendment is complementary to yours, Mr rapporteur. It goes in the same direction without being of the same nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u365	Indeed, he is not in the hard of the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u366	I do not see how he would be satisfied with the adoption of yours. That was the meaning of my question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u367	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u368	We are not going to open the debate on my amendment to create an additional article after Article 6, but all your proposals are satisfied with Amendment No 281.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u369	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u370	We will therefore be able to discuss it later. We trust you, Mr rapporteur, and therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u371	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u372	You won't be disappointed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u373	The next speaker is Mr Charles de la Verpillière, in support of Amendment No 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u374	It is also part of the very important debate on parliamentary oversight of the implementation of the military programming law we are considering. The previous one, promulgated on 18 December 2013, provided in Chapter II a very comprehensive mechanism for parliamentary oversight of its implementation. Article 7 deals with the supervisory powers of committees, Article 8 provides for a biannual financial balance sheet, Article 9 provides for the submission of the Court of Auditors' reports, Article 10 provides for an annual implementation report and Article 11 provides for an annual report on arms exports. It is therefore a very complete device. We propose, through this amendment, to refer to the operative part of Chapter II of the Act of 18 December 2013. Of course, it may seem curious, in the context of monitoring the implementation of the current military programming law, to refer to the previous one. It is simply an appeal amendment: we want to be sure that, all other things being equal, this military programming law introduces a parliamentary control system as comprehensive as it was in the previous one. We are going to do this, I believe, since the rapporteur has had a Rule 6b adopted in committee, which deals with the control of committees, and in particular with the control of documents and on the spot, and he has tabled an amendment, No 281, which will remove the other subjects. Mr President of the Defence Committee, if you confirm this analysis, I will withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u375	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u376	[[Smile]] I'll confirm your analysis. We have unanimously adopted various amendments in committee, notably thanks to the work of François André. We will be debating shortly the amendment on the additional article after Article 6b, which I tabled after working with the cabinet of the Minister of Armed Forces, so that we can reach a consensus. It improves the monitoring of the implementation of military programming, including the identification of orders and deliveries for "major impact" programs, as well as for "small" DGA programs and major infrastructure programs. We'll talk about it after lunch, I think. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u377	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u378	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u379	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u380	We will therefore find, as a whole, the same parliamentary control as that contained in the previous programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u381	And even better control!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u382	I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u383	I call Mr Bridey to support Amendment No. 369.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u384	Editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u385	Mr Laurent Furst, in support of Amendment No. 230, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u386	[[Smile]] Mr President and rapporteur, you are opposed to any new report; But you have not yet told us your opposition to the extension of existing reports! Therefore, I believe you would only be in favour of our request to complete a report that already exists by listing the proceeds of the arms and equipment divestitures of the armies themselves – which the army sells on its own – as well as the proceeds of the real estate divestitures of the Ministry of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u387	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u388	Your amendment is satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u389	[[Smile]] That's the answer I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u390	There is no need to extend the annual report of the Government on arms exports. Annex 10 is devoted to disposals, which are expensive and free of charge, carried out each year by the Ministry; it lists these sales by beneficiary country and by nature of the equipment. [[Smile]] As far as real estate transfers are concerned, it does not seem to me that they can be regarded as arms exports. They cannot therefore be included in this report, and you know my opinion on the new reports. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u391	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u392	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u393	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u394	[[Smile]] The chairman of the committee ignores the terror he inspires from Members, who no longer dare to ask for additional reports! That is why we sometimes try, when we want more information, to cling to the already existing reports... More seriously, I understand the answer and I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u395	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor to support Amendment No. 322.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u396	I will withdraw this amendment, which I believe will be satisfied by others who will come later. On the other hand, our previous amendment, No 321, is not quite so, since we also called for an annual debate. We'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u397	We have concluded our consideration of the amendments to Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u398	After how many hours of debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u399	Nearly eleven o'clock, Mr. Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u400	The first speaker on Rule 3 is Mr Bastien Lachaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u401	Article 3 describes a fiscal trajectory which, unfortunately, was interrupted in 2023. This lack of extension until 2025 confirms our feeling of global imprecision of this programming law: the ambitions displayed are great for 2025, much less for 2023! This writing is embarrassing. The budget appropriations should have been posted also for the last two years covered by the programme. We therefore question the reality of the ambitions displayed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u402	Mr Philippe Folliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u403	My dear colleague, I cannot agree with this presentation! This law of military programming differs profoundly from the previous law, and particularly from the most recent one: it puts an end to the declines in appropriations, it even increases them, and we could all welcome them. Of course, there are similarities between this law of programming and the others, but let us not tell stories, it is always the case: for the end of the period a more ambitious framework is foreseen. And we hope that the courageous policy of the President of the Republic and the Government will bear fruit and allow us to have sufficient resources to achieve the objective set. Let us give credit to the Government and the majority, and recognize that the negative trend has been reversed. We can only congratulate you, Madam Minister, on having obtained arbitrations to record an increase in defence appropriations for the coming years. This is very good news for our country and our armed forces, but also for France's credibility vis-à-vis its allies as well as other countries. In the past, we have been content for too long with postures. Here we are in efficiency and concrete!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u404	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u405	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has voted by a very large majority in favour of this article, which provides for an unprecedented effort to strengthen France's strategic autonomy in a degraded international environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u406	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u407	Article 3 defines the evolution of the payment appropriations of the Defence Mission in the years 2019 to 2023. From 2019 to 2022, an additional 1.7 billion will be allocated each year to defence policy; In 2023, it will be no less than an additional 3 billion. The years 2024 and 2025 will be the subject of arbitration before the end of 2021, and these arbitrations are likely to be included in the law. But the Government has chosen to define, as a first step, a reasonably circumscribed trajectory in time: on the one hand, it must comply with the law of public finance programming for the years 2018 to 2022, which sets the increase in the limits of appropriations allocated to the "Defence" mission; On the other hand, account must be taken of the time required for investments. Thus, a frigate ordered in 2019 will be delivered in 2023. The same applies to infrastructure: any construction requires lengthy calls for tenders and procedures. These are the reasons why developments beyond 2023 are not included in the bill. Of course, we will support this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u408	Mr Patrice Verchère has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u409	We question each other. The first subparagraph defines the evolution of the budget resources of the defence mission, excluding pension expenses and at constant scope. We would certainly have liked a faster increase, but we have already discussed it a lot, and I will not go back to that. What is surprising is that the appropriations for 2024 and 2025 include pensions. That changes everything! Reaching 2% of GDP with pensions or without pensions is quite different. We will return to these uncertainties this afternoon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u410	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-22-O1164.u411	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the military programming bill for the years 2019 to 2025. The meeting is adjourned.
