ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill on housing, development and digital development (No. 846, 971, 881, 942, 944). The remaining time for the discussion of this text is twelve hours, forty-three minutes for the Republic on the move, of which 691 amendments are under discussion; ten hours fifty-nine minutes for the Republican Group, of which 1045 amendments are under discussion; three hours fifty-one minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of which 190 amendments are under discussion; five hours thirty-eight minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, 163 of which amendments are under discussion; five hours twenty-five minutes for the New Left Group, of which 260 amendments are under discussion; four hours twenty-six minutes for the Group of the European People's Party, 127 of which are under discussion; four hours nine minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of which 247 amendments are under discussion, and one hour for non-attached Members, of which 189 amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u2	Last night, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u3	Mr President, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, the Chairman and the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, with the bill on housing, planning and digital development – ELAN – we are tackling a major reform: it is a matter of transforming a model that no longer meets the expectations and needs of our territories, our neighbourhoods and, above all, our fellow citizens in terms of housing, and which requires a profound overhaul. As a result of this necessary transformation and simplification, the Government has approached it and initiated it in consultation and respect for the actors, with pragmatism and method, determined to reform what was not working, and to end a status quo that had prevailed for too long and was no longer acceptable. The Government, together with parliamentarians, has drafted a bill that must address the major challenges: building more, better and cheaper, changing the social housing sector, meeting the needs of everyone and, at the same time, meeting the challenges and challenges of sustainable development and the energy transition. As a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, I welcome the many significant advances made in this text. As a first step, I welcome the steps taken to modernize, simplify and improve the working tools of local elected officials. They will be essential to speed up projects, without reducing environmental protection and citizens' information. As a result, environmental issues will no longer be a constraint, but will be clearly accepted. Secondly, I welcome the spatial planning measures, in particular the revitalization of the territories, which is of particular interest to me. Minister, I particularly welcome your support for the central city of my constituency, Haguenau, whose candidacy I defended. This operation marks a total paradigm shift: we create horizontality and ascending verticality, and allow the creation of spaces to project where actors can express themselves and innovate. We are creating horizontality, first of all, involving all local, public and private actors. The process of revitalizing the territories provides them with a framework that enables them to create a common project. We create upward verticality, then, because it is the project that will define the human, technical and financial means that the State and its partners will bring through funds that will be sanitized throughout the operation. We are thus radically changing our model. "Let's free the territory" is the slogan to which this tool responds. It is the implementation of the principle, dear to our President of the Republic, of trusting local actors and giving them the responsibility to act and take charge of their destiny. I also welcome the measures for the energy transition. Thus, Article 21 provides for the simplification of the implementation of the obligation to individualise heating costs, which will help to avoid this absurdity, which means that the device costs more than the expected savings. The bill also requires companies in the tertiary sector to be involved in reducing energy consumption. The article was rewritten because its original wording was inapplicable. Companies will be subject to an obligation not of means, but of results. The Group of the European People's Party has tabled several amendments to enrich this mechanism, which is of particular interest to us. I also welcome a provision introduced at my initiative and defended by the rapporteur in committee, which aims to encourage the use of renewable materials of bio-sourced origin and recyclable materials in the construction and housing code. It is essential that these materials be used more and that constructions be increasingly sustainable and take into account climate issues. Mr Denormandie, I know that as a former engineer of bridges, waters and forests, the subject of wood is of interest to you. During the examination of the articles, I will also defend an amendment aimed at favouring these materials of bio-sourced origin within the framework of the public order, because this is essential. We recognize with clarity that this bill is neither the alpha nor the omega of housing and land-use planning. Many issues remain to be addressed, such as the redefinition of zoning, which will certainly be addressed in another text, or the flattening of the various housing support schemes, which are more tools of defiance than of spatial planning. I know, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, that these matters are being considered; Know that we are and will be at your side to treat them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] However, the ELAN law marks an important change in the housing paradigm. As Mr Mézard has said on several occasions, it has been forty years since France had done anything on the subject: it is time to get on with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u4	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u5	One of the main objectives of the ELAN law is to make it possible to build more, better and cheaper. We all want to be able to do this, and I have read with satisfaction that some articles are in the right direction. I am thinking in particular of the simplification of the rules: a bill that fails to enact additional rules is good! However, be careful not to compromise the housing opportunities of the weakest, especially those with disabilities. The balance of power between those who build and the inhabitants is not always balanced. I also welcome the new contracting tools between the state and communities. It is good, and it was done from time to time, that these actors sit at the same table from time to time. The state must no longer be merely a censor, but a real partner. However, perhaps one little thing is missing. Indeed, before you even build, you have to build the land. To do this, development funds must be shared between several communities and the Crown. However, the regional urban land development fund – FRAFU – is not mentioned in this text. By amendment, I will propose that after the partnership development project – PPP – a land development investment fund be set up, because it is often land development that makes social housing very expensive. In short, there are good things in this bill. I'm not going to list them all, because you're doing it very well. I would like to share with you three great regrets. First of all, and because I am an overseas Member, I regret that this law does not take into account the specificities of the ultramarine territories. A single article on the regional development scheme – SAR – refers to overseas areas. The other articles are general and do not specifically concern overseas countries and territories. This is surprising because, in September 2017, social housing operators published a white paper on social housing in Réunion, which is a veritable wealth of information and recommendations to improve the construction of social housing. I expected that many recommendations would be included in the ELAN law, particularly in its first part. Of course, I have found some general guidelines, but nothing specific about the residential path, the return of home ownership in social housing or the National Housing Agency – ANAH. Remember, the Overseas Minister told us, in the Finance Bill, that while we would no longer benefit from personalized housing assistance for social housing, we would have the ANAH to help those who own housing improve it. But the ANAH point in the text. Nor are there provisions concerning the production of a very social rental offer, accessible to the poorest households. Overseas, it's one in four families who live in social housing! In La Réunion, 80000 families are poorly housed! It is therefore the social housing operators who make the city, who make the city, who make the housing. [[Smile]] It is regrettable that there is no "reflex overseas". It's more like an OCD, a compulsive oblivion disorder! I regret that the overseas region is the dead end of this Government's major public policies. In the area of housing, which is an extremely important topic for the overseas countries, this view should have been taken much more into account. I insist a little on this first regret, and it's quite normal. My second regret is much more classic, and has been expressed several times. Housing is not built without the owners and social donors. Owners, you're pushing them a little bit. You show them a little bit. You don't make them want to act for housing. I don't insist on the owners who have the means, but there are some who can't build without help! But you take it away from them. You break their dreams of improving their residential path. When you've been a tenant of social housing for your whole life, you want, at some point, to become a owner. But without help, your residential journey stops, and you are condemned to live your whole life in the rental. But the most serious provisions probably concern social donors. You have deprived them of a significant part of their self-financing capacity, condemning them to a general transformation. They will regroup and become cold monsters, far from the territories. You probably heard their anger. That's our concern. We're not a department next door, we're 13,000 kilometers away! If the decisions are made in Paris by a national real estate company, I am a little afraid that the distance will make us forget that our territory is different! Social donors make life overseas. They are numerous, sometimes small, and they accompany tenants in every moment of their lives. Be careful that the constraint you place on them does not cause them to lose foot in the overseas. My third regret is that I have been an assistant in urban planning for about 15 years, and I can tell you that housing policy cannot be achieved without the communities. It cannot be done without the mayors, or the town planning assistant. It is the communities that draw up local housing plans, it is the mayors who decide, who drive the construction of social housing on their territory. How do you want to require a mayor to build social housing if he does not decide on the location and form of the construction, and sometimes even the people who will occupy it? How are you going to make a mayor want to make social housing if you don't fully involve him in the decision? On the contrary, you are depriving him of powers, particularly with regard to preemption and planning! The mayor is the central room. You have to pamper him if you want to build social housing! You will not succeed if you do not give the mayor a central place among the actors in the decision-making on social housing. He's the head of the city. The Federation of Local Public Enterprises, the Assemblée des communautés de France and the Union sociale pour l'habitat have said: we need territorialisation of housing policies with local delegations for stone aid, a demand management plan and a flexible partnership with operators and social donors, whose proximity is an asset. Local development is impossible without this cooperation. The above-ground model, without the elected representatives, that you want to create is lost in advance, because the construction of the city and therefore the housing is precisely the responsibility of the mayors. I repeat in conclusion: everything should not be thrown into this text, far from it. It proposes simplifications, opens new avenues, gives the opportunity to build faster, sometimes better, simplifies the lives of communities in managing conflicts or the problem of sleep merchants, and brings flexibility. But we sometimes remain the nose in the handlebars, in technical and regulatory problems. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We hoped that this law would give impetus, a new breath, a reorganisation of the decision-makers in the construction of housing in the territories. The territory is a history, it is elected officials, social donors who are very attached to it. We must not let cold monsters come to impose a standardized city, from far away. We want to build housing, we want to build better. We want to build faster, of course, but we want the city to make sense and to please those who live there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u6	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u7	So here we are before the law that was to revolutionize housing in our country. It is a constant of this first year of the legislature: revolution after revolution, we discuss and vote texts with immense pretensions and with the most limited effects. It must be said that in this matter, you succeed to artists of real estate law. At the time, the leaders of the ALUR law – access to housing and renovated urban planning – also promised us a revolution that, as everyone knows, broke at the door of the administrative courts. What is the reflection on this matter? How do we want the cities of tomorrow to evolve and the movements within the national territory? In short, are we going back to the last centuries? Would the son of a family of honest workers of the Vaucluse never have the means to study in Paris, as the rents are out of price there? We need to focus a little on this development. The unbridled globalization and the transcription in the real economy of the struggle of capital between them completes to show us that they are holding their promises only to a tiny minority, abandoning the real country to its fate. So you're trying to accompany this phenomenon. You are looking for some episodic solutions – observations of rents and other attempts, which, if desirable, have no chance of resisting real estate speculation, the real estate competition for the appropriation of Paris. There are, of course, other concerns about the protection of landscapes, for example. If the non-attached Members had had the opportunity to defend their amendments, we could have heard Mr Lassalle sing the protection of his Bearn and our Corsican friends protect their ancestral coasts. But it is a pleasure that will not be granted to us. We should also listen to the architects, whose concerns about the control of the building and the quality of the building would deserve our full attention. The installation of relay antennas should be questioned without reflection on their inscription in places of strong heritage. However, we would have been happy to support part of the text: the mobility lease is a good idea, the implementation of an interdepartmental social watch, an evidence that should exist in all administrative services, the shift from five to ten years of accounting for the goods sold, a pirouette that goes in the right direction. However, these necessary adjustments are part of a text that remains a prisoner of the ideology of housing management in France. Let a Vauclusian woman tell you that with a little audacity, you would have taken advantage of this text to cancel lines and lines of politics of the city, kind of parliamentary totem that everyone knows the gabegie but that no one dares to overcome. Instead of a policy of the city carried out in pure loss, we could satisfy a real and beautiful ambition for our city centers. These areas that have become paradises for nostalgic photographers can relive, if we say things to each other: the security of these places and the return of degressive purchasing power from the tax racket to the French are the most opportune solutions. In fact, you can take an example among non-registered MPs: all the inhabitants of Béziers, Orange, Bollène or Beaucaire will share with you the essential change in quality of life after the election of their mayors. The logic is the same with regard to HLM. I experienced it alongside Jacques Bompard in the city of Orange. In 1995, Jacques Bompard was elected mayor of Orange. The press is unleashing, Libération multiplies the fake news, the left-wing parties are in pain in front of the rise of I do not know what peril. The mayor discovers, and we with, the overwhelming management of the HLM offices in France. I go over scandals – they're pretty well known. However, I come back to aberrations: the refusal to restore the existing one, the political abandonment of the management of certain towers to absolute communalism, and I forget about it. In 20 years, trust relationships and a constant demand have been able to largely redress the situation. Why? Because instead of listening to the estocades of the major media, the Orange people saw the results of a family-like management of relations with the HLM offices. Locals pressure these offices to make a de facto improvement in the situation. Now, with your law, what are you doing? You remove local elected officials from their influence on housing. You create HLM superstructures that will not even deign to listen to the mayors and therefore the inhabitants. In short, you fulfill a promise of technocrats, for an accounting readability and managerial principles applied by writers. You are relying on a deplorable method of failing in our country. Social donors will even be able to sell real estate without informing local authorities. Supreme contempt for local elected officials! Build new social housing? It's an idea. But what about the renovation of the elders? Are you going to impose ideologically defined objectives or are you planning to involve all local partners in the discussions? Colleagues, if this law is simply a discussion between the directors of the departments of the various administrative strata, it will still have forgotten its recipients, its environment and its users. Minister, we will not agree on this text, but I want you to remember a constructive position. In the press, in the media, in the face of certain associations, you have had to defend yourself from wanting to leave the SRU law – solidarity and urban renewal. You were worried about the one who can't assume his conviction. Well, I suggest you come back here with a text that removes the intellectual, social and political absurdity that is the ideological diktat of the SRU law. Get us out of this text and its malady jacobinism, give their freedom to the communes, and therefore to the people, to organize urban life according to their experiences and their local ambitions, and you will have an innovative text, able to get us out of the ruts. Thank you, and I'll tell you soon, to get out of the SRU law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u8	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u9	We are starting the debate on the ELAN bill. In the preamble, I would like to stress how much housing is at the forefront of our citizens' concerns. It is enough to have been or to be elected local – this is the case for some of us here – to know that, almost everywhere in France, eight out of ten requests for appointments addressed to a local elected official by a resident relate to a housing problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u11	That is the place of housing in the priorities of citizens. With education and employment, it is one of the pillars of social integration. It is at the heart of the concerns of our citizens, especially the youngest and the most modest. That is why the GDR Group will strive to defend on foot everything that can be done to improve what needs to be done and to reduce the blows to the interests of the most modest. At this stage, in the general discussion, I will keep to a few remarks on the philosophy of the bill and on the substance. With the laws of that Government or the speeches of that majority, we are often forced to engage in semantic decryption. I tried it a little. For this law, as for others, you talk a lot about mobility. Why not? Mobility is a good thing. But, looking more closely at how you translate it into the texts, we see that the only synonym for mobility becomes precarious. There is further precarization, especially of the most modest. Then you often talk about simplification. Who can be against it? But when you look at the translation in your proposals, you don't see simplification, but deregulation. It's not the same thing. Here we make the law, the common rule. There is therefore a paradox to lead to a weakening of standards, under the guise of simplification. It is by the norm and by the law that the poorest are defended. We often hear about house arrest as well. No one should be under house arrest, you say. Of course. But you have to know the neighborhoods! I lived there, I raised my children there, who went to public school. Know that when an urban renovation operation takes place in an HLM neighbourhood, if you ask the residents where they want to go after the renovation, 80-90% of them say they want to stay there. Because a neighborhood is not just urban difficulties! It's also networks of sociability, friendship, it's a story, a family, solidarity! And when you don't have much to live on, there's nothing more valuable than solidarity networks. When you can't afford a nanny, you're happy to be able to count on the neighbor! In fact, I note that in 2003, during the heatwave, many seniors died in the solitude of large cities. But in a city like mine, in Saint-Denis, the morgue of the hospital had availabilities to accommodate all the elders who had died, alone in their apartment, in the huppies of Paris! Because in a popular neighborhood, you never leave an elder, even if you don't know him well, without taking news when you haven't seen him for two or three days!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u12	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u13	There have been far fewer deaths in indifference and loneliness in working-class neighbourhoods than in some hupped neighbourhoods. Therefore, be careful with the expression "house arrest". Of course, everyone must benefit from mobility, be able to change housing, but be careful not to cast reproach on neighborhoods that are rich, too, of solidarity and humanity. And, if no one is to be placed under house arrest, what matters to me is that no place, no neighbourhood of residence is invivable to the point that we want to leave! That is what we must focus on. The bill's explanatory statement uses a variety of terms to refer to housing: it is referred to as a "market property", a "use property", a "consumption property"... But we never talk about housing as a right. I, who have been working on these issues for the last 20 years, is the first time that I have seen a reform on housing, not a line mentioning it as a right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u15	That's a good point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u16	In our country, it is a right of constitutional value. It's not just an oversight, it's a drift.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u17	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u18	When we do semantic decryption, we manage to lift the veil on the formulas that serve as gift paper, it is a philosophy in its truth that appears. And this philosophy is that we will find the solution to the housing crisis in our country by entrusting the keys to the market alone, with as few obstacles and regulation as possible. How big is this housing crisis? That was said and said last night: 12 million people are affected by this crisis; 2.8 million live in overcrowded, uncomfortable conditions and in very precarious housing conditions. But it is also a crisis of the cost of housing. The main factor contributing to the deterioration of purchasing power over the last ten years has been the increase in the price of housing: the share devoted to housing has thus increased from 18 to 25 per cent in the household budget, as it sometimes reaches 40 per cent in tense areas such as the Paris region. So it is both a quantitative crisis, because there are not enough housing, and a crisis of expensive – an affordable housing crisis. How can we respond to an affordable housing crisis, if not by building affordable housing as a priority?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u19	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u20	In our country, HLM, "moderate rent housing", is not the residual housing of the excluded or the poorest in society. They have not been thought of like this in our economic and social model: the HLM house 75% of the French employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u22	It is a generalist housing, a crucible of integration and social mix. The mix, the generalist character, the fact of housing employees who wish to do so, is the history of the HLM, and it must be preserved. If the housing crisis is properly analysed, the only response to this crisis is to develop affordable housing, particularly through low-cost housing, which needs to be strengthened. [[Laughs]] At the consensus conference, I invited members of the Government to make comparisons, particularly within Europe, before embarking on such a reform. To make me understand Macronie – don't think of it as a pejorative term: let's say the "new majority" – I even told them: "Make benchmarking"! They welcomed my proposal rather positively, but there was no benchmarking. If we had done so, we would have found that in the other European countries – Spain, Italy, Greece, Portugal, the United Kingdom, and even Germany, where demography is less dynamic than in France – the housing crisis is more important than in France. We would have realized that all the municipal elections in the major European capitals over the last three years – in London, Berlin, Rome, Madrid, Barcelona – have been held around the issue of housing and the housing crisis. All of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u23	[[Smile]] We have to warn Manuel Valls!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u24	We would have noticed that all these countries look to France, those that do not have a mixed economy in the field of real estate, which are in the hands of the single market and banks – talk to the Spaniards, for example. If you had done a benchmarking, you would have revised your position and preferred a response based on the mix of the economy, which is historic in our country in the field of housing: a public leg and a private leg, which alternately support each other and allow us to walk. Had there not been this public leg, namely the social housing sector, there would not have been a national response of such magnitude to the appeal of Abbé Pierre in 1954; There would not have been as little damage in the private housing sector in 2008, at the time of the subprime crisis. By the way, it's a real estate crisis, an over-indebtedness crisis of American households looking for housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u26	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u27	The subprime crisis has been, as we can see, a crisis of the financialization of housing pushed to its peak. In short, the economic damage in the private housing sector in France would not have been so limited if the public sector, i.e. the HLM organizations – I chaired one of them, I know what I'm talking about – had not responded to the government's call at the time by helping the developers to destock so that they would not put the key under the door. This is a reality: in 2008, HLM organizations acquired 50,000 housing units from developers to help them destock and avoid putting the key under the door! This is the history of our country, a history of balance and mix, which makes our strength. Let's build that strength! But this bill is taking a step in another direction. He'll amputate one of the two legs, deprive the public sector of its strength. We'll start with the toes, then progress, a little like gangrene... That is the way to read this bill, which is dangerous from this point of view. Moreover, even if you decide to give the keys to the market, at least be aware that the market, if not immoral, is amoral. It is the Liberals who say, not just me, that one might suspect not to like the market! The market has no morals. He's blind to the public interest. That's the reality. Hence, the strength of the law is to serve as a white rod, to regulate it, to put it on track, to orient it. To give the market the keys without regulation, or by removing regulations, is to expose itself to the risk that it will turn away from the general interest and further deepen inequalities. That is why I do not adhere at all to the various deregulation companies found in this bill. I am thinking in particular of the reduction of accessibility standards, which have been, whatever it is said, a step forward for the disabled. Look at how the disabled associations, in their entirety, are reacting: they are standing up against your bill! They do not understand why we are going back to the advances they have taken years or even decades to achieve; Why, at once, we are reducing the standards of accessibility to the skin of grief.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u28	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u29	I refer here to accessibility, but I could talk about other standards or rules that have been progressing in terms of habitability, comfort or accommodation adaptation. And what about the weakening of the power of architects in the act of building? What can be said in particular about the provisions concerning the architects of the French buildings – ABF – in a country like ours, which has such a built and landscaped heritage? I who live in Saint-Denis, the city of the kings of France, the royal basilica and the Carmel, I say to you: the removal of the assent of the architects of the buildings of France before building is a disaster! [[Rites and applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, NG and LR groups as well as among the non-attached MPs]] As I said in committee, Malraux must turn to his grave. Let us not apply to the law the symbolic drift that the country is experiencing: a few decades ago, it was André Malraux who took care of the heritage, today it is Stéphane Bern! Please, a little more rigour and protections in the law! Another deregulation is the weakening of the power of mayors, which can be found in a number of articles of the law. The mayors will no longer have to give notice about the sales of HLM, they will be deprived of their competence in the matter of building permits, to the benefit of a particular urban development operation... Anyway, I'm not going to list here all the amputations of the mayors' power. From these deregulations, from the weakening of the power of mayors in the act of building, a technocratisation ensues. For this is what is at stake: the structures to which these powers are transferred are not directly derived from popular sovereignty and universal suffrage; They are often places for the technocratisation of public decision-making. And all of this, frankly, I saw it as a huge step backwards. Try to analyze. Contrary to what many journalists without memory and culture write about the suburbs, the urbanisation of bars and towers is not the legacy left by municipalities who would have liked to flatter a popular electorate by housing it: it is not to know anything about the history of these bars and towers! This story, in reality, is De Gaulle and the prefect Del Travailleur who fly over the Paris region in a helicopter, and the first who says to the second: "You're going to put me in order! » What has this translated into? By the A1 motorway, which bleeded the city of Saint-Denis, cut the Seine-Saint-Denis in two and put popular neighborhoods directly under the gas of the largest European motorway. By the expropriation of thousands of people, who have been severely abused. By the construction of the Cité des Quatre Mille in La Courneuve. Never would this city have been built on the initiative of the mayor of La Courneuve or the local elected officials of that time! But at the time, there were two or three firms of architects, who would sign contracts with the housing minister for the construction of thousands of houses... And there was no urban plan! The town plan that made the rule was the crane road! Hence the bars and towers. To return to centralized, authoritarian and deregulated urban planning is therefore to leave the door open to what led, yesterday, to the urbanisation of the bars and towers that we complain so much about today. It is only with the decentralization laws of 1982...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u30	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u31	... and the provisions on the role of architects who have been broken with the urbanisation of bars and towers and who have built housing, whether social or not, HLM or not, almost undifferentiated. Because who today can distinguish HLM housing from private housing on a street? Architectural quality, adherence to standards are identical! It is in this way that we make social mix, not by building low cost housing for the most modest, not by making poor housing for poor people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u33	Under the pretext of reinventing the world, this bill amounts to very, very old recipes that have produced only negative effects. I warn you against this drift. I would have preferred that we try to reinforce what exists in our public culture, the progress and the progress we have made over the years. Finally, the real centrepiece of the law is social housing. You don't like HLM. You see them as an anomaly. With the finance law, you voted Act I of their weakening, taking them 3 billion euros, while you were giving every effort to the private sector, which is the real speculative sector behind the rise in prices. Now that they've been kneebed down, they're forced to regroup. It's Act II. I guess, because I hear the lobbyists who are interested in the bill, that Act III, after the weakening and consolidation, will sanction the opening up of these groups to the private sector and to the world of private investors. There's a business model. It was the people of Bercy and the Caisse des Dépôts who made Icade. You know the story: 40,000 HLM housing units financed by public money were initially placed in a public defancy company at 100%. In 2005, the opening of capital and introduction to the stock exchange: half of the capital was in the hands of private operators, all based in tax havens. This is how the HLM assets financed by public money were transferred to private operators, which allowed the greatest real estate surplus-value ever realized, to the benefit of private actors with public money! [[Rires on the benches of the Commission and the Government]] In terms of sales by private operators of a public good, no business model in France has gone as far as Icade, whose model is that of Russian oligarchs. I see no one else who has such mastery in the art of taking possession of community-funded goods, privatizing them and selling them for his benefit! As for HLM housing, I say to you as a member of the Social Union for Housing: it is not because it has signed a protocol with the Government, following a decision taken by some bureaucrats cut off from their constituents and acting against the opinion of their base, that it is followed by the HLM movement, which, in the diversity of its agencies, is opposed to the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u34	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u35	It is a truth: the philosophy of this bill is extremely dangerous. Finally, we will have a maximum alert point: the SRU law. Everyone says this one won't be attacked, but that's not true. Some of the provisions of the bill are already doing so! To allow the sale of HLM housing in municipalities by keeping it under the status of social housing for ten years after sale is to affect the SRU law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u37	To accept the sale of HLM housing in cities that have not yet reached the rate of 25% of social housing provided for by the SRU Act is still to affect this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u39	Worse: to accept the sale of HLM housing in small towns, which are fined because they do not contribute to the objectives of the SRU law, is once again to touch this law. We will be very attentive to one point. In the majority group, which alone tabled 1000 amendments to this text, I am told – I will check – that two Members are proposing, for example, that the SRU law no longer applies to municipalities, but at the scale of agglomerations, at least for a number of cities. Others are about to go even further. We will fiercely oppose all these developments, as will all the articles of the bill to challenge the SRU law. In 2005, a majority had tried to tackle the law. Abbé Pierre was still alive. He came to the stands and weighed with all the power of his conscience and all his symbolic strength on the debates that were taking place in the Chamber. President Chirac then told his majority that he was out of the question of returning to the SRU law. He said, "We won't do that! His disciplined majority followed him and, thanks to the presence of Abbé Pierre and conscience, or at least in the political sense of the then President of the Republic, the SRU law was not called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u40	Oh, Chirac! He was a real socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u41	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] Abbé Pierre won't be able to come any more. But, I beg you, don't touch the SRU law. If you venture in this direction, you will find us in front of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u42	Yes, stop touching it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u43	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u44	Urban planning and spatial planning, despite the technicality and darkness of these materials, have important societal challenges. For several decades, French society has undergone profound changes: increased professional mobility, increasingly diverse family patterns, and an ageing population. It is in this context that the reform of the ELAN bill is taking place. For decades, standards and laws have been piled up, resulting in a loss of clarity and stability in public construction and renovation policies. The subject is sensitive, technical. It involves a plethora of actors and responsibilities have been diluted. It is important to address the problems that have been irritating housing policies in France for too long. Housing policy usually amounts to EUR 40 billion a year. Forty billion a year, and still four million unhoused! Forty billion a year, and this ever-increasing sense of decommissioning, of abandonment, which many of our territories suffer! The joint hearings carried out by the committees seized on the merits and for opinion, of which I welcome the titanic work they have done in recent months, have reinforced the idea that there is a need to reshape the law of urban planning and construction in depth. Most of the people we heard during these hearings, but also during our field visits, make us understand the need to renovate urban law. As soon as we get out of the ground, the buildings are already out of standard... This bill is consistent: 65 clauses and more than 3,000 amendments. We have dealt in the Committee on Laws with seven articles on three topics which I believe are particularly salutary. First, article 54, which sets a framework for land requalification operations, which we will certainly call ORT in our debates. Our average cities suffer from a real crisis of attractiveness. While they are the heart of rural areas, they suffer from competition from metropolitan areas, which account for more than 80% of employment. Their city centre is impoverished. They also suffer from more discreet ills, which we have tried to deal with in committee: the competition between e-commerce and traditional trade, an increasingly inadequate urban planning, with often old buildings, even abandoned and, in many cases, industrial wastelands. It is these challenges that the ORTs tend to address, which aim to implement real territorial projects and to take into account the problems of our cities not in a sectoral way but in their entirety. To this end, these operations will be based on cooperation between local actors and cross-cutting governance. Through the joint action of municipalities and intercommunalities, urban and economic renewal of medium-sized cities will be facilitated. The movement has already begun: 222 cities are affected by the action cœur de ville programme of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion. There are three in Isère, in my department, specifically in Nord-Isère, on the road that connects Grenoble to Lyon: Vienne, Bourgoin-Jallieu and Voiron – three cities happy to have benefited from this scheme. The basic objective of ORTs is to put the medium-sized cities back at the heart of territorial policy and not to resolve to their decomposition. The second key point is the fight against unworthy habitat. The observation is simple: the public power has become powerless in the face of certain owners. There are few convictions and their deterrent force is very weak. We believe that, in order to effectively combat unworthy housing, the portfolio of indelicate owners must be attacked. That is the idea that we defended in the Committee on Laws with the draftsman. The purpose of our discussions over the next few days will be to make it mandatory to impose additional penalties for confiscation of property and to extend the ban on sleepers from accessing auction rooms. Finally, we have examined in committee the easing of judicial procedures in the area of urban planning. Article 24 provides for a limitation of unfair remedies as well as grounds for nullity. We have said this: the law of urban planning, which is very procedural, leaves room for many abuses, i.e. for remedies whose motivation is enrichment. It was essential to curb this procedural escalation, so as to limit the risks to operators and their investments. Finally, I would like to remind you that this bill, despite all the qualities I recognize, will not do everything. This is why it is accompanied by funding and many related measures, in terms of digital deployment, renewal of the living environment of neighbourhoods – for EUR 10 billion –, revitalization of city centres – for 5 billion – and energy renewal – for EUR 14 billion. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is in the interest of Bill ELAN: it accompanies a proactive housing and construction policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u45	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u46	Building more, better and less expensive, encouraging the development of the social housing sector, promoting social mix are laudable objectives, which we share. But, because there is a "but", we doubt the solidity of the text. First of all, we believe that it reflects, as has been said, a real mistrust of local and regional authorities. In fact, the mayors are, in connection with the owners, the privileged interlocutors of the State. They are best able to define housing policies for their territory. They are the main players in territorial cohesion. However, many of them have real concerns about the scope of their competences. I am thinking in particular of the transfer to public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – of the competence to issue permits, which would unwarrantedly undermine the democratic legitimacy of the mayor and his team, elected on the basis of a draft territory. A number of measures in the text which undermine the proper exercise of the powers and prerogatives of mayors can only be countered. I am thinking of the creation of two tools derogating from the common law of planning operations: the partnership development project – PPP – and the large urban development operation – GOU. The latter allows the transfer to the president of the intercommunality of the competence in matters of the issue of town planning authorisations, or the possibility for the EPCI, after agreement of the prefect, to create and manage, instead of the communes, public facilities falling within their competence, even if the latter are unfavourable! It would be desirable for the municipalities to be eligible for the scheme, in the same way as the intercommunities. It would be desirable to reintegrate them as main actors in major urban planning operations, with the creation of the GOU subject to their prior agreement, and finally to remove the provision on the automatic transfer of the authority to issue the building authorisation to the President of the EPCI. Similarly, the abolition of the preservation of the prefects' right of urban preemption in municipalities with social housing, under article 55 of the SRU Act, seems to be a matter of common sense. The second reason that makes us doubt the solidity of your text is that it contains provisions that weaken owners and discourage rental investment, while the market especially needs flexibility and security. For example, section 34 does not require a security deposit under the non-renewable mobility lease for a minimum of one month and a maximum of ten months. However, while the creation of the mobility lease is intended to facilitate short-term leases, it cannot take place at the expense of lenders and landlords. This provision is clearly not such as to reassure them or encourage rental. Furthermore, in the interests of simplification for landlords, we believe that it would be appropriate to extend the maximum duration of the mobility lease from 10 to 12 months. Indeed, if the mobility lease exceeds ten months, it becomes a classic rental contract. We therefore wish to align the periods: before 12 months, this would be a mobility lease, beyond 12 months, of a rental contract. Similarly, the extension of the time limits of the expulsion procedure solely on the basis of the tenant's situation, without considering the difficulties encountered by the unpaid owner, condemns the owner to the occupation of his dwelling without title. Again, this provision does not encourage owners to rent their property. One last example: today, the owner must notify the guarantor, in the event of an unpaid payment, within 15 days of the notice of payment addressed to the tenant, under penalty of cancellation of the guarantor's responsibilities. Would it not be necessary to strengthen the guarantee granted to the owner by extending the time limit to two months, which would correspond to the duration of the order to be paid addressed to the tenant? These examples show that the Government should take more account of the powers of mayors and rebalance the relationship between landlords and tenants. Finally, the third aspect of my speech concerns the hiatus that can be seen between the intentions shown in the text, which are common sense and which, as I said, we share, and the budgetary provisions of the last finance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u47	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u48	The problems of housing policy are largely of a budgetary nature. Technical measures will never replace the missing appropriations. Social donors have suffered the effects of the 2018 Finance Act, which reduced rents to compensate for the drop in APLs – personalized housing subsidies – and increased VAT from 5.5 to 10 per cent on the construction of social housing, putting some organizations in serious cash flow difficulties. After having seen their resources amputated by the last finance law of 1.7 billion, they are offered to sell the housing to their occupants, but this solution does not seem realistic. The "building more, better and cheaper" cannot be achieved, as some real estate operations will never come into being due to lack of appropriations and reorganization of organizations. Moreover, the abolition of the zero-rate loan on 70% of the territory and the disappearance of the APL accession illustrate this hiatus. On the one hand, the State will save EUR 800 million in aid, but on the other hand, it will deprive itself of the VAT generated, the jobs created and the growth generated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u50	As we see, ladies and gentlemen, this bill enshrines the weakening of mayors and owners and the identification of a distortion between government intentions and their budgetary translation. It also marks an extraordinary decline in the accessibility of collective housing to people with reduced mobility, as has been said by one of the previous speakers, and opens a dangerous breach in the coastal law on construction...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u51	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u52	... by allowing, on a case-by-case basis, the filling of what is a little trivia called "drained teeth". [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Therefore, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope that the discussions we are going to have in the coming days will enable us to find real solutions to the weaknesses of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u53	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u54	I have the strange feeling that by applying, for the second time in a few days, the so-called scheduled legislative time procedure, we, the members of the opposition, Members of the nation, as we have often been told here, but Members who will eventually become Members of Parliament without a vote, for voters without rights, because, in fact, we are denied the right and the means to represent them until the end. Yesterday, Minister, you reaffirmed your commitment to parliamentary democracy. Unfortunately, not all MPs are housed in the same house. We are being kept waiting for hours so that our amendments, which cannot be defended, can still be voted on. They try to discourage us by making us understand that the play is being played without us. But more than that, we are angry because a bill that deals with the evolution of housing, development and digital technology is not to be taken lightly. For my part, I wanted to participate fully by tabling some forty-three amendments. Forty-three amendments to ensure that local elected officials are seen not as second-tier institutional and financial partners, but as competent actors and, therefore, listened to, whose words are fully taken into account. Forty-three amendments to ensure that the free administration of local authorities is not only enshrined in our Constitution but that it is a reality, a reality on the ground. Forty-three amendments to ensure that urban projects no longer insidiously nibble the land of our farmers. Forty-three amendments so that we do not risk damaging, endangering our 4000 kilometres of coastline by allowing a derogation system that will favour urban sprawl. Forty-three amendments to ensure that the digital coverage of our territory, which is a real challenge, is not, however, to the detriment of our national heritage. Forty-three amendments to ensure that access to housing is as guaranteed as possible for the disabled. Forty-three amendments to ensure that private companies are protected from unfair competition from the public sector in urban engineering. Forty-three amendments to allow HLM offices to set up video protection equipment in the common parts of buildings and to allow law enforcement, including municipal police, to enter to ensure security. Forty-three amendments to combat incivilities, allowing justice to pass on to social donors all judicial decisions that would affect a prospective tenant. Forty-three amendments to ensure that tenants of social housing, who sometimes occupy them only a few months a year, actually living a large part of their time abroad, are not allowed to abuse national solidarity. Forty-three amendments so that mayors can ensure that their citizens are given priority in housing matters over their own communes. Forty-three amendments to give municipalities the means to fight effectively against squatters, which undermine the right to private property. Forty-three amendments to deal in practice with sleep merchants. Forty-three amendments to ensure that social housing quotas include accommodation for homeless persons and Travellers and places in prisons. Forty-three amendments to really help the homeless to end the campaign promises that remain in the form of slogans. Forty-three amendments to ensure that our city centres are the object of a real effort, of a bold plan in the continuity of the city centre action plan, which we welcome, and that a national health observatory for these city centres is set up, as well as tax mechanisms in municipalities whose city centres have commercial vacancy rates of more than 10%. Forty-three amendments in order for INSEE to make available to all unquestionable figures, which we absolutely need if we are to save our city centres in difficulty. Forty-three amendments to enable mayors to defend themselves against the proliferation of large areas. Forty-three amendments to allow municipalities to create, under certain conditions, urban free zones in the city centre. Forty-three measures which I would have liked to have been able to defend in this House! However, I would like to say that this project, although disappointing on some points, is positive, in particular as regards simplification or lease mobility. It would have been even more so if we had been able to discuss it together, evenly, on these benches. Unfortunately, that will not be the case. Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u55	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u56	Today we are discussing issues that are essential to the daily lives of our citizens: housing and land-use planning. This text, which in many respects may appear technical, contains particularly serious and worrying provisions for our citizens and for the whole of this large sector providing growth and jobs. This bill is ultimately an extension of the first budget that you presented to us, which is already a significant slowdown in construction figures and construction starts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u58	The near-deletion of the accession LPA, the reform of the zero-rate loan in the new and the old, the restriction of the rental investment scheme, the reduction of the solidarity rent imposed on social donors, which deprives them of their ability to invest, explain these poor results. A few figures illustrate this sad reality. New housing indicators are declining: sales are slowing by 14%, which is expected to grow in 2019. New accommodation bookings show a 10 per cent decline. The slowdown mainly concerns block sales, which fell by 19%, while in 2017 they increased by more than 30%. Real estate credits and transactions in the existing fleet have declined. Moreover, as confirmed by INSEE in its economic report published yesterday, household investment in housing tends to slow down after two years of strong catching-up. Professionals in the sector hoped that, as a result of the Finance Act, the Government would take advantage of this legislation to correct the trajectory of your budget. However, this is a technical bill, a big bill, not to say a tote, which does not meet the high expectations of the industry, even if, to be fair and objective, I would call certain measures interesting. I am thinking of the continuation of the work to simplify the standards and construction procedures that I have undertaken, of the desire to reduce abusive or dilatory remedies, or of the need to fight against sleep merchants. On the other hand, other measures seem to me to be insufficiently thorough. If I can share the philosophy, the lack of guarantees or the means to achieve them in practice requires complementary work. I hope that our discussions will help to remove some ambiguities. Thus, the transformation of vacant offices into housing, valued by a building bonus, is an idea that may seem attractive, but its conditions of implementation are too imprecise because they do not achieve the objective of social mix – in the current state, it is even the opposite. With regard to the allocation of social housing, I agree with the principle of rating, but the review of the situation of tenants, scheduled every six years, will put local elected representatives sitting on the housing allocation commissions – CAL – in a great difficulty – it is not the only provision in the text that forgets the mayors – especially in the tense areas where we desperately lack housing adapted to the needs of our fellow citizens and to the size of the households. The fluidity of residential routes will be difficult to reach. The mobility lease is intended to meet a real need and can be a step forward if you provide proof, ministers, that protections exist to prevent the development of a new form of tenant precarization. With regard to the development of the supply of intermediate housing, we can only share your ambition, but we should not have touched on what was working in the finance law. Finally, with regard to development and digitalisation, I am concerned that the provisions presented do not respond very much, or insufficiently, to the feeling of abandonment or relegation experienced by the inhabitants of rural or peri-urban territories. Other articles, on the other hand, cannot receive my consent because I consider that they will strengthen and worsen the fractures between our territories. I am thinking in particular of the provisions on social housing. Your bill provides for the consolidation of HLM organizations, which will pose a problem in many territories of proximity, particularly in terms of services to tenants, whose quality of life will be affected. And what about the possibility of selling 40,000 homes a year to private companies, while social housing is the heritage of all French people? You do not foresee any safeguards, what will bring social housing into a market logic, tense towards profit, while what should be encouraged is the ownership by tenants and the sale between social donors. How can you tell us that you want to avoid real estate speculation or strengthen the fight against sleep merchants, when unfortunately these sales risk strongly encouraging them? The abolition of the architectural competition for the construction of social housing and the questioning of the law on the control of public works and its relationship with the control of private works – MOP law – are also a major step backwards, which will necessarily undermine creativity, innovation, and which, in the long run, will lead to the questioning of their architectural quality and their urban integration. I find that to be in contradiction with the proposals made in the report by Jean-Louis Borloo, which you have abandoned. Unfortunately, the speech of the President of the Republic concerning the suburbs and the priority areas of the city and your bill will not strengthen the social mix, fight against communalism and break the ghettos.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u59	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u60	Your bill, which cancels essential provisions of the equality and citizenship law, is a hard blow for the cohesion that we all want for the forgotten territories of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u61	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u62	Mr President, I would like to conclude my remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u63	Quickly, because you are not registered: the rule is not the same as for groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u64	I have a lot of amendments that I will not defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u65	You will do whatever you want, but you will not exceed the tolerance I have already given you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u66	I also expect from our discussions clarifications, clarifications and commitments on your intentions, ministers, regarding the SRU law...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u67	Thank you. As you know, we're on schedule. Non-attached Members must respect their speaking time. I've already been very tolerant with you, Mrs. Pinel. By cutting you off, I was just defending the interests of the other non-attached Members, who all have the same rights. Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u68	"Our housing policy is still too much thought for the needs of yesterday, and not enough for those of today, let alone those of tomorrow. This excerpt from the bill's explanatory memorandum sets out the ambition to meet the needs of our populations in the areas of housing, development and digital technology. The purpose of our political work is to translate these laudable ambitions into benefactor legislation. If we welcome the arrival of this text and note clearly positive and innovative elements in some respects, we must deplore its weaknesses. A shared and concerted ambition, yes. The aim of freeing up the most fragile initiatives and protecting them can only attract unanimous support. This ELAN bill already has a merit, that of having mobilized all the good wills in order to corser it, to boost it. Because this momentum must be followed by a flight, not a leap into a social and societal vacuum. In the first place, the initial postulate, ideological and consisting of providing an exclusively liberal response to housing problems, leads to drifts and removes the text from the ambitions displayed. For example, the logic of a mixed economy, by harmonizing the action of public and private partners, has enabled France to resist the housing crisis longer and better than elsewhere. By destabilizing public action, this text calls into question this French asset. On the other hand, this bill carries with it the risk of a return to frantic, aesthetic-free urbanization and architectural faults echoing the large towers and bars of the 1960s and 1970s. It would be a real social and societal regression. In this regard, the removal of the assent of the architect of the French buildings constitutes, throughout the territory, an objective threat to the preservation of architectural quality. Moreover, the healthy emergence of new technical and institutional tools cannot mask the cruel inadequacy of the financial resources backed by this text. Finally, the Government has taken the unfortunate habit of referring to obscure orders of major decisions, which should be the very heart of parliamentary work. In this respect, every new law comes to pulverize the record set by the previous one. If all these consequences are a real concern for France, what about the overseas countries and territories? It must be noted that we do not really take into account our specificities. In addition to the absence of flagship measures, it is feared that the ideological drift feared for France as a whole will resonate even more seriously in our territories, due to the lack of safeguards taking into account our insularity, the scarcity of land and the need to preserve our architectural heritage. The marginalisation of the ABF's opinion and the use of prefabrication are evocative signs of this. Moreover, the desire to build less expensive cannot stand in the way of our overseas peculiarities, and in particular the seismic and cyclonic risks facing our territories. The reduction in the cost of construction must not rhyme with the decline in the quality and safety of goods and services, especially since, as we know and you know, natural phenomena will be increasingly violent, as the disasters Irma and Maria have brutally recalled. In the absence of precaution, the widespread use of prefabricated and low cost products could lead to a real danger to the lives of others. We could, we should have taken advantage of the opportunity of this text to establish and sanctify a precautionary principle for habitat, like the one for health. This is an innovative and revolutionary idea! That's a paradigm shift! In addition, the systematic non-use of architects, due to the reduction in procedures, could exacerbate the production of housing unsuitable for climatic conditions, including natural ventilation, and could contribute to the increase in the energy bill related to air conditioning and electricity. And what about the impact of the concreteization of the coastline on our tourism, which is a real economic challenge for our territories, we know that and you know that? The reduction of procedures for building permits and town planning documents must in no way jeopardize the development of our agriculture, which is already affected by weather and plant health pollution. In this respect, I have made relevant proposals, unfortunately already rejected in disregard of common sense. Thus, not only does this law refuse to take into account our specificities, but, worse, it still more stubbornly refuses to correct certain discriminations that our territories are already victims of. This is, in fact, reducing the territorial divide, which is the objective of this text. Why did you reject proposals from the outset that could have allowed a form of rebalancing, including those that have no financial implications? Consider, for example, the case of asbestos, which is a major and overly costly financial, social and health problem. Of course, France is also affected, but at home, almost 70% of the constructions are potentially affected: roofs, facades, partitions, paintings, sewerage networks... Today, in all overseas countries, whole estates, co-financed by the State until 1997 as part of the social acquisition of property, are loaded with asbestos. The only cost of transporting asbestos waste condemns the poorest families to homeopathic poisoning. An amendment proposing, with a constant budget envelope, I insist on this point, to finance fewer dossiers, but to better finance them, going beyond the ceiling of 80% of public aid, has, against all expectations, and very unjustly, been the victim of the lightnings of Article 40 of the Constitution. In any event, we will have to be very vigilant to defend the safety of our fellow citizens, who are also entitled to the same quality of life as in France. With regard to access to digital technology and the quality of mobile communications networks, efforts still have to be made, at least. With regard to non-interconnected areas, both in hexagon and overseas, the fact that in the twenty-first century many inhabitants did not even have access to electricity must be addressed. Ending this electrical divide is the prerequisite for addressing the digital divide, which our populations pay for in more than one way. Paying a 2G in Fort-de-France is more expensive than a 4G in Paris: this is our daily life! Another example of discrimination is the contribution of overseas social donors to the National Stone Aid Fund, while our territories are expressly excluded by law. However, the exemption from this unjustified levy could have enabled us to meet, at least in part, our five hundred-per-year housing production needs. Once again, the text says it wants to facilitate construction and encourage the sale of HLM, in order to compensate for the financial disengagement of the state – the reduction of the single budget line – LBU – this year closes to 270 million euros. Professionals in the sector are not at all convinced of this. This is particularly true in the overseas region, where, after the death of the social and social challenges, the removal of aid facilitating access to property will further penalise our populations. Worse still, it is the entire economy, particularly the already breathless construction sector, that is likely to suffer the impact. You know that, we know that. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We have a number of amendments, constructive and constructors, which clearly demonstrate the demand that we, as responsible elected officials, have for our knowledge of the ground: the demand to act in order not to suffer any more. On this and other issues, the central power of Paris cannot remain blind or deaf to the rise of the territories. Otherwise, I predict you: by firing at any constructive initiative of the people from below, Jupiter is likely to be running out of lightning very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u69	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u70	Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Bénédicte Taurine have already explained to you the reasons for our opposition to the general logic of this text. This bill falls within the general logic of your Government's policy: to liberalize at all costs, in disregard of the social and ecological imperatives that should guide public action based on the general interest. Still fewer rules, always fewer standards, always less regulation: who, in good faith, can believe that such a course of action will improve in any way the daily lives of our fellow citizens? Your bill, we've already talked about a lot, provides for the creation of a mobility lease. Another one of those nice names your majority has the secret, to hide the reality of measurement. Your "mobility lease," ministers, is a "insecure lease." It is not renewable and concerns students, persons in training, trainees or persons on temporary work assignments, in other words people who are already insecure. After the generalization of the CDI of construction – a sort of disguised CDD, but without precaution of precariousness – to all sectors of professional life, after the invention of the collective conventional break, you invent the precarious lease! Not only will the employment of our fellow citizens not be guaranteed in time, but they could also lose their housing there! Our work, our roof: what then does the Government intend to tackle? The Defender of Rights, in his opinion of 18 May, considered that your scheme, Ministers, exposes the target audience, mainly young people, to an increased deterioration of housing conditions. It is a society of widespread precariousness that you are building. On the contrary, you could have extended the guarantee of rents by the State as well as social housing and made it compulsory to regulate rents in all tense areas. But as always, instead of protection, you prefer precarization! I would like to tell you that what is causing this lease, like other measures in the bill, is your relationship to the real. Let us take a concrete example. The electoral district for which I am a Member of Parliament is located in the Territory 12. Ms Gaillot, also Member of Parliament for Val-de-Marne, a member of the majority, said in committee that the obligation to merge public housing offices was not appropriate for our territory. The debates have therefore led you to foresee a possibility of exemption, applicable if each public housing office – OPH – has more than 15,000 housing units. However, your addition does not solve the problem. The territory currently has eight OPHs, for a total of 27,500 social housing units. Therefore, the correcting provision you have imagined does not apply. Do you think, gentlemen, that a merger of eight OPHs – which has never happened in France! – with a mother-structure that would be assigned the heritage plan and could therefore force a girl-structure to sell heritage, or even liquidate one with it, will allow them to continue to carry out their mission? That is not all: this lack of social realism is compounded by a tragic lack of awareness of ecological issues, which must underlie the relationship to habitat at a time of major change for our societies, namely species extinction and climate change. As a result, your bill expands the scope of exemptions for environmental assessment. As usual, you claim to simplify by making the law more complex and everyone loses it, manufacturers who have no readability and society as a whole, for which it is obvious that environmental standards are not superfluous ornaments. On at least one subject, we hoped to find a rational common ground: the cessation of the artificialization of the soil. In addition to the absurdity it constitutes at a time when agricultural land needs to be linked more closely to medium-sized cities, short-circuit development and flood risk protection, we know that such constructions raise other problems. These include empty city centres and shops that disappear as large areas occupy colossal areas on the periphery. The artificialisation of the soil is accelerating: the equivalent of a French department is sunk in concrete every seven years. We have therefore proposed a moratorium on the construction of any new shopping centre on the urban periphery. At a time of environmental emergency, has the time not come to put an end to the proliferation of shopping centres, whose territory is saturated? But you obviously rejected the amendment that we tabled in committee, as it went against the general spirit of the text, the thread of which is the lowering of environmental standards. However, I would remind you that it is dangerous to do so with the standards, as I have already pointed out in committee. The fire at the Grenfell Tower in June 2017 in London, which claimed the lives of seventy-two people, was due to the absence of tests on coating materials. I remind you so that we all have in mind, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that construction standards are not there by chance or out of taste for the production of rules, but in order to ensure our safety for all. In addition, many associations have expressed their concern, which I echo here, about the decline in standards for accessibility of housing for persons with disabilities. When I spoke of the problem, you took it seriously, Mr. Secretary of State, arguing that it is entirely possible to build living accommodation to accommodate a person with a disability. However, if you ask professionals about this, they talk about smoking. Indeed, with your bill, we are moving from the target of 100 per cent of new accessible housing, as set out in the Handicap Act of 2005, to 100 per cent of new scalable housing, 10 per cent of which is accessible immediately. In order to demonstrate the absurdity of such a measure, the National Association for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities has made a simple calculation: this objective leads for HLM – in the private park it is even worse – to an accessible housing for 30,000 inhabitants. Statistically, of these 30,000 people, 16 will be victims of a disabling health accident, such as a stroke, and 1800 years of age or older. There is therefore a very strong underestimation of needs. In addition, it denies persons with disabilities, in the opinion of the persons concerned, the right to visit friends and family. Finally, and the press has reported this in the last few days, you are attacking the Littoral law. Not only do you reject our proposals on combating the artificialisation of the soil, but you run counter to a widely established consensus in the country: the fight against the urbanization of the shore. According to an FIFG survey conducted three years ago, 91% of French people are in favour of the full implementation of the Littoral law. Of course, this consensus does not go as far as those who could benefit from the opposite! Our coasts, ministers, must not be subjected to voracious economic predation. We can only destroy them once. Comparing the Vendée to the Breton shores will give you a striking image. Thus, you plan to allow exemptions from the Littoral Act without submitting them to an impact assessment. It's true: what's the point of environmental standards? What's the point of impact assessments? The Bretons, Corsicans and Ultramarines are committed to this law, which has allowed us to preserve our coastal landscapes. So why weaken him? On reading article 12, it is understood that new constructions may be authorized in the 100-metre coastline if it is already built and, as splendid as it is, landfills may be installed in areas close to the Corsican coast and in ultramarine territories. Why here rather than elsewhere? No justification was provided. These provisions ruin thirty-three years of law enforcement! The coastline has always been the subject of many lusts, in the form of land pressures and accelerated urbanization, to the detriment of maintaining local agricultural and maritime activities, respectful of the environment and natural spaces rich in biodiversity. The increase in extreme weather events, such as storms and floods, as well as the rise in ocean levels, which are estimated to reach between 50 cm and 1 m by 2100, requires the management of the coastal area with measurement and prudence. You will therefore find us determined and firm alongside those who fight against the wild urbanization of the shore. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Precarization and disregard of environmental rules, social injustice and ecological inconsequence: this bill is in no way adapted to the imperatives of our time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u71	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u72	The ELAN bill is extremely important. Indeed, we will all agree that housing is one of the main concerns of our fellow citizens, if not the main one, with employment. The first item of household expenditure, housing accounts for 26 per cent of the French budget. This figure must be compared with the 4 million people who remain poorly housed or deprived of their homes, according to the latest report on the state of mal-housing in France published by the Fondation Abbé Pierre. This is therefore a problem of magnitude, characterized by a real mismatch between supply and demand, which contributes to a sharp rise in prices and unacceptable drifts, such as the resurgence of sleepers and excessive delays in obtaining housing. We all know the diagnosis. Most of these problems are not new. The demand for housing is steadily increasing in metropolitan and city centres in large cities. We also note that a shortage of housing hinders professional mobility, residential routes and the development of a large number of territories, that the supply of housing is inadequate for the needs of the French in many medium-sized cities and that many housing units are vacant or even degraded in some rural areas. It is therefore essential to put in place a renewed housing policy, providing for partnership actions between the State, local and regional authorities, planners and economic actors, both public and private. The bill is therefore not an additional piece of legislation on housing. It is intended to provide a comprehensive response to concrete problems. Its ambitions are strong: it aims to accelerate the act of building, which requires the simplification of building standards and administrative procedures, but also to support and encourage the production of housing by lifting the locks and brakes. The provisions facilitating large-scale urban operations and operations of national interest are in line with this. To build more housing, it is essential to unlock certain blockages in the production chain and to activate all the levers to facilitate construction. Intensify development operations, free the land, improve the treatment of urban disputes, simplify the act of building and the urban planning procedures: these are the complementary links of this chain. In concrete terms, the aim is to speed up the settlement of appeals and to step up the fight against unfair remedies, in order to increase the average length of the procedural periods from 24 to 10 months, which will bring an end to the current situation, in which 30,000 constructions are blocked by unfair remedies. Unleashing to offer new opportunities, but also to protect in order to give more to those who have less: this text strengthens the social housing model, promotes mobility and makes attributions transparent. There are also new solidarity, such as the mobility lease, and better tools to combat unworthy housing, which inspired me to make two amendments. The Committee on Cultural Affairs, of which I am a member, has received opinions on seven articles, in whole or in part: Articles 1, 2, 3, 5, 15, 20 and 28. They have important stakes, such as the role and mission of the architects of the buildings of France or the architectural dimension of the act of building. Building more: this is the subject of Articles 1 and 2, which provide for the creation of two new urban planning tools, the development partnership project and the major urban development operation. The aim is to encourage the creation of several thousand homes, offices and shops in the country, particularly at the heart of the main living areas. These mechanisms respond to a dual logic that makes the State the driving force behind a new partnership with local and regional authorities and inter-municipalities – an urban planning body par excellence – which I welcome. Article 15 of the draft law provides for a simple opinion instead of a assent for the installation of relay antennas within the perimeters under the jurisdiction of the FBAs. This measure aims to accelerate the digital coverage of the Territory, in accordance with our campaign commitments, taken over by the Government. It also provides for a simple opinion instead of a assent when a building is subject to a danger order for unsanitaryness and a demolition order. Finally, it goes back to the provisions prior to the law of 7 July 2016 on freedom of creation, architecture and heritage – LCAP law – by reversing the sense of silence of the prefect: from now on, in case of recourse of the administrative authority, the silence of the prefect will invalidate the opinion of the ABF, as was the case before 2016. On this point, we must be very vigilant. The Government's concern for simplification is legitimate and we share it, but it must not lead to a deterioration in the living environment of our fellow citizens or in the architectural quality of buildings. Finally, the last major measure of the text that the committee of which I am a member has examined is the exit of the social housing sector from the scope of the MOP Act. In addition, the text goes back to a provision introduced in section 83 of the CASL Act requiring bodies subject to the MOP Act to organize an architectural competition. All these provisions serve only one and the same ambition: to lift all the barriers to construction in order to build more, better and less expensive. Housing must remain, more than ever, the engine of our economy and the support and vector of social mix and employment in our territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In my view, the bill provides a satisfactory response to the various issues specific to the housing sector, notably through land-liberation measures, reform of the social housing sector, improved transparency in the allocation of social housing, the creation of mobility leases and the simplification of construction standards. That's why I'm going to vote him out. I call on the elected representatives of all sides to accompany me in this momentum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u73	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u74	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u75	The various topics covered by the ELAN bill are of paramount importance to our people and territories, particularly in Corsica. Once again, we will be debating under conditions which we consider disastrous, not to say contemptuous enough against Parliament. Indeed, we are working again in the context of the scheduled legislative time, the introduction of which is more than questionable in the light of the principles of freedom of parliamentarians and of minimum respect for democracy. Perhaps it is a foretaste of the next constitutional reform that awaits us? We do not wish. As time is running out, I shall deal, in the general debate, with some 20 amendments which I intend to defend, for lack of speaking time to do otherwise. First of all, there is in Corsica – and certainly in other territories – a breach of equality in terms of access to housing, buildings and land. We are dangerously approaching the 40% rate of secondary residences, some of which are acquired at prices that exceed understanding. Meanwhile, 20 per cent of the population lives below the poverty line; The unemployment rate is 10.5% – the fourth highest rate in France – and the average annual income is 10% lower than the French average. What we see is a society composed of a local population, poor, living in Corsica all year round, and rich outside owners present two to three months a year! These are objective realities that need to be rebalanced. This is not a rejection of the other, a withdrawal of identity, or what I still know, the arguments that we are constantly being rebuffed. Corsica's strong seasonal tourist attraction creates inequality in terms of access to housing for people who want to live there during the year. It predisposes employment, it hinders the establishment of agricultural installations and the establishment of enterprises producing goods and services... in short, the sustainable economic life. These migratory and capital flows must be regulated in Corsica – as elsewhere if others wish – to reduce this artificial economy and to lead to a productive economy. We want to get out of this addiction! We refuse to be reduced to a mere refuge for wealthy people or stars in search of authenticity. Our choice of society is quite different and Corsicans have elected us for it. That is why we want to start by implementing a real land policy, in particular by controlling the taxation of assets. The rate of secondary residences should be regulated. Other countries, such as Switzerland, have already done so. In fact, what was not our surprise to discover in the bill a start to unravel the Littoral law, at the turn of amendments in committee! The famous "deep teeth" should not be transformed into abscesses, not dental, but speculative... The Littoral law is a guard against speculative madness for territories where tourist pressure is strong and, in Corsica, it is very strong! In the context I have described to you, do you think that the free market will allow the construction of social housing in Corsica or on the French Riviera? Of course, I'm going to say no. I would like to point out the current situation: 18 months of waiting for social housing in Corsica, where the proportion of social housing is barely 9.8%, while the national average is 17%. It's normal: what is the point of building social housing? We can't make money fast and easy, and we're freezing land. In the area of social housing, we thought we could launch a coherent policy, at Corsican level, within the framework of the new single community. It was the spirit of the ordinances that created the latter, and basically anticipated what you wanted to do today: to merge the public offices of the habitat. But, as you know, thanks to a political manoeuvre endorsed by this Government, the former public office of Corsica-du-Sud was finally left to the community of agglomeration of the Ajaccio while the former office of Haute-Corse, he, joined the unique community. Common sense would have led to the creation of a single office; But no, you keep the derogation in the bill! When it suits you, you give derogations. We ask you, in order for your action to serve the general interest, to return to the spirit of the ordinances. I cannot conclude without addressing the issue of revitalizing our city centres. We are facing a "civilized issue," to echo the comments of Senator Martial Bourquin and Senator Rémy Pointereau. We must reconnect with the culture of centrality, by making our historic centres more attractive, by revitalizing trade, cultural and heritage places; In the end, we will promote the social bond. It is too easy today to build on the periphery and too complex to design commercial revitalization projects in the city centre, for a mayor. This is another consumption model that we need to drive; the great American shopping mall is not a fatality, and we refuse it. [[MM. Paul-André Colombani, Michel Castellani and Serge Letchimy applaud]] If this text does not strengthen the social mix in the territories, if it does not allow a better architectural quality, if it does not preserve our coasts from land and real estate speculation, if it does not effectively preserve our cities from peripheral urban sprawl, then we will not vote for it. And not only will we not vote for it, but we will be among those who will stand up against all the speculative drifts that would result from it, in order to avoid the worsening of dispossession and the economic and social divide in our country).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u76	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u77	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, Mr draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to consider a bill which will have important consequences in the territories, particularly in Corsica. Corsica suffers from a shortage of social housing, combined with excessive and irresponsible real estate speculation, which prevents people from housing properly. Corsica is also a preserved island; However, the protection of its coastline is threatened by poor planning policies and a worrying proliferation of illegal constructions. The bill covers all these aspects: it deals with social housing, urban planning, coastal planning, and also appeals against building permits. This text allows for some common sense, but it has limitations, in particular on the obstacle to recourse against illegal permits. The Commission's text also introduces several derogations from the Littoral Act. I am legitimately concerned about the possible instrumentalization of these provisions on our island. They demand increased and unwavering vigilance, while local elected officials have called for its unhappiness. These politically minority elected representatives in Paris have a disproportionate listening to what they are politically weighing on the island – about 10% in the last territorial elections. If we organize elections but only listen to the losers, ignoring the winners, so let's not do any elections! I also wanted to talk to you about the consolidation of the HLM offices, so much rented in Article 25. This grouping aims to give them a greater critical mass and thus to improve the construction of social housing. This would be very useful in Corsica, where the shortage of these dwellings exacerbates the phenomenon of land eviction, impoverishing the precarious Corsican households every day. Well Corsica is excluded from this scheme by the bill! Usually, republican equality is invoked to systematically refuse every derogation requested by Corsican elected officials – however, these derogations are dictated by pragmatism and made necessary both by the social specificities on the spot and by the physical constraint of insularity. However, this text grants a derogation for Corsica, but to its disadvantage, since the consolidation of the public HLM offices of the island is prevented! There are two: one for South Corsica, the other for Upper Corsica. It's too much for such a small territory. The Baylet Order establishing the single community in 2016 explicitly provided that the "offices under the departmental councils are attached to the community of Corsica" after the disappearance of the departments. However, in order to abort this transfer decided here, in this Chamber, the HLM office of Corse-du-Sud was offered, in advance, by the department to the community of agglomeration of Ajaccio. Of course, the department and the intercommunality were held by a majority different from the one in the Corsican Assembly. So we end up with an HLM office run by an intercommunality that extends over 5% of the territory of South Corsica, supposed to build and distribute social housing in Porto-Vecchio, Sartène or Bonifacio, and therefore outside the territory of intercommunality! This situation would be considered upuesque in any other department: let us imagine that, in the Bouches-du-Rhône, the mayor of Marseille allocates the social housing located in Istres and Aubagne! This clanist instrumentalization of social housing is as aberrant as it is anachronistic. These techniques belong to the old world, to which the new world should not extend its hand. However, this bill excludes Corsica from the arrangement for the consolidation of HLM offices, which will allow the community of agglomeration of Ajaccio to carefully preserve its HLM office, and the electoral capital that it has always represented for the clanism of the old world: a vote, a dwelling. [[MM. Jean-Félix Acquaviva, Michel Castellani and M的jid El Guerrab applaud]] Now, the scheduled legislative time forces me in fact to silence, since the few minutes allocated to the non-attached Members will not allow me to defend the 20 amendments I had tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u78	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u79	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur and the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen, the analysis of the bill on housing, development and digital development refers me back to 11 September 1985 when François Mitterrand in Kourou asked himself: "How can we continue to launch rockets against the backdrop of slums? » Thirty-three years later, and despite the efforts made by previous governments, the housing situation in Guyana is still deteriorating – as is the case with national photography. While housing is the first item of expenditure and one of the main concerns of French households, it must be noted that not all are housed in the same house. Before I go into the details of the bill, let me remind you that today, in 2018, 150,000 people live in unworthy housing in Martinique, Guadeloupe, Guyana and La Réunion. Every day his lot of victims of false landowners disguised as good Samaritans or unscrupulous sleep merchants. Every day too, ordinary citizens, without stories, tired of living in overcrowded family housing turn, for lack of better, to illegal housing. The term "slum towns" is frightening, and the administration prefers it to be "informal areas of habitat," or "spontaneous areas of habitat." Yet it perfectly reflects the sad reality of tens of thousands of ultramarines. Can we effectively combat the phenomena of violence, can we effectively combat school failure, can we repair the degraded social climate if we do not tackle the sources common to all these problems, i.e. the housing malaise and the resulting social malaise? What was not my enthusiasm for announcing the Government's ambitions, which we all share here on these benches: to stay more, to stay better! This enthusiasm was immediately extinguished by the observation of the total absence of the overseas countries in this text – but it is the habit of this Government – but by the evidence of the ideological postulate of which it is impregnated. He is only putting forward a liberal response that will certainly not improve the housing situation in our country, on the contrary. There is no suspense: this text will further weaken the most modest ones. However, it was the Government spokesman who had announced a few days ago that "poor human rights" were at the heart of the majority's agenda. I was looking for it, but I admit it didn't look at me when I read this bill. It is surely the defence of "poor human rights" that drives the Government to call housing a commodity, a consumer good or, at best, a good use. But never before is it seen as a right, even though the right to housing is constitutional in nature, and the law of 5 March 2007 made it a enforceable right. It is certainly the same defence of "poor human rights" that justifies the weakening of social donors to the benefit of private operators and to the total disregard of a model based on the social and solidarity economy. Undoubtedly, this choice will be very damaging in the overseas regions, where social housing affects 600,000 people and weighs around €2 billion in investment in the construction sector. "Housing more, staying better" is an ambition that should have brought us all together. Yet your project succeeds in generating the sling of all the players in the sector, both the solutions you are putting forward seem inadequate and in total opposition to the history of our country. I am particularly puzzled by the question of the financialization of the social donor model, which is the counterpart of the decline in the individualised support for housing, the APLs, which you have imposed on us. You seem to want to reproduce an Anglo-Saxon model which has largely demonstrated its faults and counter-productivity. But then how can we imagine that it can be wise to leave the law on the control of public works and its relationship to the control of private works, known as the MOP law, which nevertheless guarantees the transparency of the use of public money? You literally open the door to abuses during tenders. What about the sustainability of the design-realization derogation, which benefits only large groups, and will probably lead to the asphyxiation of the fabric of SMEs and TPEs in the local construction sector, even though our ultramarine companies are already heavily weakened, and no longer bear the inhuman competition imposed on them by the national majors? No, Minister, housing is not a financial product! As I have already said, this is a right, which we must all place at the heart of our social project – a society of which older people, like people with reduced mobility, are an integral part. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Pending the analysis of the many amendments tabled, I would like to express my opposition to your liberal and quantitative vision, which leaves too little room for quality and social.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u80	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u81	Minister, Secretary of State, with this bill, you are dealing with the baptismal facts of the restructuring of the HLM world. You had a choice between continuing to do as before, not to be bored, and having the courage to act. Of course, my speech will focus on the HLM sector. At the same time, I will respond to those who believe that this bill would call into question social mix. In my opinion, it's the opposite! It has been a long time – almost thirty years – since we heard about the restructuring of the HLM sector in this House. Clause 52 of the 2018 Finance Bill is likely to have accelerated this transformation. With the creation of public limited liability companies, which you will have to authorise, ladies and gentlemen, the HLM organisations will have the opportunity to come together to do better. However, Minister, this responsibility for restructuring requires preconditions on your part. Again, you'll have to be brave. First, you will need to validate the economic and social trajectory of the HLM organizations gathered to determine whether these built and thought together will achieve economic balance and assume their social role. Finally, Mr.Minister, you who have been a senator, it will be up to you to convince local government executives that they will be able to carry out a housing policy on their territory without controlling 100% of the organizations that may one day be integrating these famous HLM cooperation companies. That's possible! Although François Pupponi has left the Chamber, I note that there is no HLM in the municipality of Sarcelles: this does not mean that there is no social housing and that there is no housing policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u82	François Pupponi has been absent, but I will convey your comment to him. He'll answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u83	This means that a territorial elected official does not have to govern an operational actor in order to build his city: through urban planning documents, including local housing programmes – PLH – and territorial coherence schemes, he can influence the housing policy carried out on his territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u85	You will also have to think, Minister, of the HLM organizations that may not have the chance to join these co-operative public limited companies. It will be up to the State to ensure that these offices, sometimes isolated, can find their place in the restructuring of the HLM world. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] Let us not forget that social housing organizations work with the savings of the French, the money of Book A. This is why, historically, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations has always demanded a financial guarantee from the local authorities, not to preserve its interests, as those who have forgotten history claim, but simply to preserve the savings of the French. Our collective responsibility is great, but I know you will be able to assume it. Contrary to what some say – but I recognize that I can be wrong – this bill is a source of hope and will mark a profound evolution in the settlement and heritage of HLM organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u86	By selling the HLM park!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u87	Like you, Minister, I believe that the HLM system must be self-supporting. In this text, you promote the sale to the occupants; Fortunately, you do not prohibit the sale of this asset to private legal entities. Thus, you are helping HLM organizations embark on a sales strategy – I know that Action logement is in the process of developing such a strategy. Behind this will, you are actually encouraging an extremely strong transformation. While the legislator has been gargarian for years of the principle of social mix, which he does not define because he does not have the courage – we know what to do or not to do, but we do not say how to do it –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u89	... you finally allow the transition from the esoteric principle of social mix to the well-known principle of mixed status of occupants in a real estate complex.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u90	By impoverishment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u91	It's a real revolution. Yesterday, President Mélenchon evoked Haussmann, prefect of the Seine department at the end of the 19th century – who was, in a way, the first in charge of a GOU, a major urban development operation. Emperor Napoleon III had given him the obligation to clean up the city of Paris from an environmental point of view, to build ensembles – at the time it was the state that took care of them – and to ensure that all the inhabitants of the buildings demolished for the opening of the new streets were relocated to the new buildings built. This was the first major development program. In these Haussmannian buildings, the ground floor was dedicated to a certain type of population. The inhabitants of the floors were all tenants: on the first and second floors were the richest people, while the third, fourth, fifth and sixth floors were occupied by less fortunate people. Social diversity existed. It was not until the end of the 19th century that these heritages began to be ceded. Some occupants bought their apartment, while those who could not afford it retained the status of tenant. In the same building, rich people and poor people coexisted: social mix existed. The 1950s came. After the Liberation, France must be rebuilt. We then invent the 1948 rent technique, with comfort equivalents. The tenants of the Haussmann buildings are seeing their rent increase. The owners – those who were able to buy a wealth and rent it – are forced to do some work, since the 1948 law gave them money to re-establish buildings that fell to the ground. As rent increases, many tenants can no longer afford to pay them: the less wealthy leave these real estate units by the elevator! Thus the Haussmannian buildings in Paris became ghettos for the rich.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u92	At the same time, we created ghettos for the poor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u93	Only children of owners or wealthy people are schooled in the surrounding schools. Believe someone who knows the HLM world well and has even lived there: other children are forced to attend schools where there are only children of tenants. It doesn't work. If we do a little benchmarking, to use the expression of Stéphane Peu, no other country in Europe knows such islets or large neighborhoods only inhabited by tenants. What matters is the possibility for the doctor's son to meet the gardener's or mechanic's son.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u94	In that case, we have to organize the condominium!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u95	Yes, Mr. Letchimy, but it didn't work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u96	Social cohesion is the mix of occupiers' statutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u98	Minister, Secretary of State, you will be able to rely on the majority, but you will have to hold on. Many would like nothing to change so that they don't get bored.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u100	Your bill is transformative; And to transform is to ensure that people's daily lives evolve and that the tenant's son can attend the same school as the owner's son.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u101	You have to have faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u102	Since you know my pugnacity, I would also like to say that a number of parliamentarians of the majority have tabled amendments. I hope that you will listen to them kindly in order to advance this bill, which, in my view, is a positive change in a well-understood relationship between many of the housing players in our country. Let me tell you one last thing, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. I know you share my values. I like to say that public service is the last good that belongs to the one who has nothing. The public social service of housing is therefore the last good of the one who does not want to be on the street. There is no provision in this text to suggest that it would be your most expensive wish, contrary to what has been suggested by some cartoons in this rostrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u104	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] I know your values and I know that they are shared by the majority and by many Members who sit on our benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u105	A good point for Mr. Jolivet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u106	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u107	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to denounce once again and with the utmost firmness the decision to resort to the procedure of scheduled legislative time. Direct and practical consequences: the speaking time of MPs Pè A Corsica, which could have risen to 120 minutes under ordinary procedure, is reduced to about 15 minutes. Fifteen minutes to three Members to discuss crucial issues – especially for our island, but not only – such as social housing, coastal law, digital development of our villages, urban planning and construction rules, and the fight against the proliferation of shopping centres. Once again, the Government maintains, at the very least, a damaging distance from certain representatives of the people. We deeply regret it. I'm going to the program of the day. With this ELAN bill, you are part of a long series of pieces of legislation that frontally question a certain vision of social relations and territories. We have had the opportunity to express our views on the planned evolution of labour law, of the social model in general, on the necessary respect due to minorities and territories. We recalled that development, desirable, goes beyond mere economic growth and strongly incorporates many human, cultural and social values. It is precisely these dimensions that must be preserved, everywhere and always. Politically, you are proposing a new world. Either, but it clearly establishes the boundary between the worlds of work, economy and finance, between the spirit of initiative, positive, and the speculative, destructive will of jobs and social justice. That it seeks to combat the standardization of lifestyles and takes into account the cultural roots, which make the wealth of territories and participate in the personality of each citizen. That it strives to master today's galloping, fundamentally unjust globalization, with consumption and the pursuit of profit at all costs for totems. In terms of planning – this is the subject of the day – it is increasingly part of the logic of sustainable development, the promotion of renewable energies and the protection of animal life. That it clearly supports the laws protecting the natural environment, in particular the coastal law that so many people are seeking to circumvent today. May it protect our territories from the abuse of speculation, always on the lookout. That it block all attempts at ever more insidious derogations from the rules of construction. There are contradictions to be managed in these planning choices. They are all the more formidable as they truly engage the living environment of today, but also the very foundations of the lives of future generations. That is why we must cling to the fundamental principles. The political family to which I belong has not fought for so many years, under such difficult conditions, nor have I made so many sacrifices to allow destructive attempts, especially those that intend to undermine the law of the coast, to be carried forward in a creeping way today. It's clear: we don't want to leave – we won't leave! – a dominant logic of the unbridled market and the lure of gain over a controlled political and ecological vision of the territory. We therefore make it clear, in Corsica as elsewhere, for the protection of the natural and land heritage, for the revitalization of rural and mountain areas, for easier access to property in the social housing sector, for the renovation of the existing park, for the development of digital in our villages and for the rational development of our cities: as many subjects as we could have developed if the possibility had been given to us. [[Applause among non-attached Members and on the benches of the NG Group]] More than ever before, not only the Government and the legislator we are, but also all citizens, we are all faced with fundamental choices. I say this without wishing to give lessons, because I am aware of the difficulty: it is necessary to balance, to arbitrate between realistic planning, which is the concrete response to immediate needs, and the preservation of land and natural wealth. Ensuring the present and guaranteeing the future: it is not simple, it is even fundamentally contradictory, but it is, volens nolens, imperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u108	Mrs Stéphanie Do has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u109	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning of the quinquennium, the Ministry for the Cohesion of the Territories referred to a housing strategy, which is an integral part of a comprehensive housing and digital development plan for France drawn up by the Government. He wanted to set up a working group, which I had the honour of chairing, composed of Members of the majority and the MODEM group, whose mission was to draw up an overview of housing policy. Based on numerous hearings of key stakeholders in the sector, we were able to assess the Government's strategy and these actors were given the opportunity to express their satisfaction and concerns, allowing them to propose improvements to the proposed measures. At the end of the work, we produced a report to diagnose the housing situation and identify solutions, some of which were included in the ELAN bill. At the same time, a consensus conference was held in the Senate, at the initiative of President Larcher and with the agreement of the minister. Some Members of the working group participated actively, including MM. and the rapporteurs and the person responsible for the text, whom I welcome for their investment. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to take stock of the housing situation in France. Housing now accounts for €40 billion of public expenditure each year and a third of the household budget – an increasing figure – with tense areas in which households struggle to live and other areas in which housing is not available, such as rural areas or degraded city centres. Housing, in a few figures, is 4 million malhousers and 143,000 homeless people, an increase of 50% between 2001 and 2015. Housing is, finally, decades of policies that are not sufficiently in line with changes in society and whose main flaw is to take up more of the reaction than of anticipation. There is a constantly increasing demand for housing, which has not been anticipated due to the development of occupational mobility, the changing family model and the increasing need for flexible, connected and ecological housing. The primary objective of Bill ELAN is to address all these challenges. This text is intended for all actors in housing, for all our citizens, for those who live in cities and in the countryside. The aim is to encourage the construction and renovation of the built park, to empower the actors involved in this transformation and to combat territorial inequalities, all without ever giving up helping the most modest ones. This bill is structured into four headings. Title I aims to simplify building standards and town planning documents, to speed up judgements, to punish abuses and to facilitate the transformation of vacant offices into housing through a building bonus. As draftsman of the opinion during the 2018 Finance Act, I had the honour to present my proposals, which were included in Title II. One of them is to give social donors a deadline for restructuring, and I am pleased that it has been retained. Another important point of the second title is the simplification of home ownership for HLM tenants, which will give donors more means to build new housing. In this respect, I have expressed my support for the continuation of the LPA accession, which enables the public concerned to acquire these dwellings. My wish was partially satisfied, since the accession LPA is maintained in a relaxed area. The objective of Title III is to better meet the needs of everyone through greater transparency in allocation, better mobility within the park, the creation of a mobility lease and the fulfilment of intermediate housing production objectives. Title IV, finally, aims to improve the living environment of the French, a primary objective which is reflected in the renovation of the centres of the medium-sized cities and the fight against unworthy housing as well as against sleep merchants. Finally, the aim is to promote energy renewal and better access to digital technology. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, this bill is leading to major changes in housing. That is why I pledge to defend him forcefully alongside the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u110	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u111	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a reference to a philosopher, whom I very much like, Michel Serres: "First Habitats. The matrix where we lived nine months. [...]. A distant heir to these primitive lodgings, the house, at last. As the philosopher points out in his book Habiter, the problems related to habitat are old, but remain one of the main contemporary concerns. This issue affects millions of our citizens, because of the lack of housing, the ever-increasing price that makes them inaccessible to many families or their insufficient energy performance. Through the question of habitat, there is the question of the permanent transformation of our societies. Living together, technological innovations, future energy crisis, changing families, basic needs: the challenges we face are many. A first step in this area was taken in 2010 with the "Having Better" programme. We now need to continue the process. To live better is first of all to promote the energy transition and the fight against energy insecurity. Let us recall a few figures: according to the energy renovation plan presented last November, the number of "thermal colanders" is 7 million, of which 3.8 million are occupied by households in precarious situations. That's way too much. We must do everything we can to reinvigorate the renovation of housing and enable everyone to live in sustainable and economic housing. By carrying out simple small tasks, such as changing bulbs or covering the hot water ducts, we can reduce the charges from 300 to 400 euros per year. Thus, combating this energy insecurity also means increasing the purchasing power of households, especially the most modest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u113	Because living better also means promoting, through sustainable development, more social justice by facilitating everyone's access to quality housing and at a reasonable cost, social housing is a pillar of the French model.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u114	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u115	The ELAN bill proposes, on the one hand, to build more social housing in the HLM sector, which requires a convergence of all actors. Let us recall, in this regard, the decisive role of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations – CDC – the leading financer of social housing in our country. Last year, loans from savings funds financed the construction or acquisition of 109,500 new social housing units. One out of every three housing units built in France is a social housing unit financed by the Caisse. As Olivier Mareuse, patron of the savings fund, points out, Book A is not money that sleeps: it is loaned, to the tune of 185 billion euros, to the social donors to finance the construction of social housing and projects carried by the local authorities. I plead for the CDC to play an increased role in intermediation between lenders and tenants. In this regard, I support François Jolivet, Special Rapporteur of the housing section of the "Cohesion of Territories" mission in the context of the 2018 Finance Bill, which has tabled an amendment co-signed by several MPs. I hope, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, that this amendment will be adopted. Let us be proud of this unique system in the world. Transforming liquid savings by financing long-term projects is a fine illustration of the best between the public and the private sector: financing the general interest and, at the same time, being an institutional investor in the private sector. The ELAN text also proposes to facilitate the sale of social housing. In this regard, let us not give in to the speculatory inclination of some. Let us not sell what is expensive to build in the suburbs, or fall back into what we have called "ghettoization". If I am not against the principle of sale, it must first be done in favour of the people who live there and help the most modest to acquire housing, even in the centre of Paris. Otherwise, we would do a form of eviction from the poorest to the suburbs. On the contrary, we must promote social and generational mix, as well as better integration of people with disabilities or loss of autonomy. I have tabled several amendments to this effect and I hope that they will be adopted. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I will quote Michel Serres once again: "He who has never been caught in the arms of anyone has never lived." Minister, dear Jacques, the Cantalou of birth that I am told you: let us live together these few days and these few nights!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u116	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u117	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u118	I am arriving at the moment of the Committee on European Affairs and I am a little short of breath... Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Chairman of the Commission, Mr. and Mr. Rapporteurs, in Le Monde as he does not go, Gilbert Keith Chesterton, great defender of the usurers whose capitalist utopia he denounced, wrote in 1910: "With the red hair of a street girl, I will set fire to all modern civilization. Since a girl must have long hair, she must have clean hair; since she must have clean hair, she must not have a poorly held house; since she must not have a poorly held house, she must have a free and relaxed mother; since she must have a free and relaxed mother, she must not have a usury owner; since it must not have a usury owner, there must be a redistribution of the property; since there must be a redistribution of property, there must be a revolution." It's 1910. The revolution to which the great British writer calls here obviously has little to do with the enterprise of liberation of initiatives and simplification of standards to which you claim once again to give yourself in this text, in the wake of the revolution – but ultraliberal – macroist revolution. Your ambition is not to twist the necks of usurers, but rather to roll out the red carpet to promoters and institutional investors. Under the pretext of responding to the urgency of housing and encouraging the production of housing, you propose in this text to us to undermine our HLM model, to arouse the appetite of private investors, to reduce the power of mayors and to bypass accessibility standards, architectural standards and environmental standards. Minister, you cannot be blamed for not being faithful to the ideological line of the President of the Republic. On the contrary, you cling to it with unfailing dogmatism – unless it is a form of resigned fidelity that has become an occupation of every moment. The dogma of liberal infallibility proclaimed on the occasion of the rise to the throne of Emmanuel Macron continues to undermine the collective rights that form the social heritage of our country, by operating narcotics back and forth. The fact was pointed out this morning by my colleague Stéphane Peu, who is, as you will know, an end specialist in the file and a much better connoisseur of these questions than I can be. As far as urban planning is concerned, you are proposing that we go back 40 to 50 years, before the laws of decentralization, at the time of authoritarian and bureaucratic urban planning. Perhaps you, gentlemen of the Government, suffer from the goldfish syndrome: the goldfish have a memory of only a few seconds, it is thought, which allows them to find the new landscape at each turn of the jar. As man always repeats the same bullshit – forgive me for this expression – it would tend to confirm that man descends well from fish – a fish from Jordanna or Truyère, of course! This is how you focus on the baptismal fonts of new contracting mechanisms – the partnership development project contracts, known as PPPs, and the major urban planning operations, known as GOU – in order, you say, "to empower local actors to achieve ambitious housing production objectives while working on the development of their territories. » In fact, these two tools derogating from the common law of planning operations will transfer to the president of the intercommunality the competence to issue town planning authorisations or the possibility for the EPCI – a public institution for intercommunal cooperation –, after the prefect's agreement, to create and manage, instead of the municipalities, public facilities falling within their competence, even if the latter are unfavourable. The Association of Mayors of France rightly denounced an "unwarranted attack on the democratic legitimacy of the mayor and his team, elected on the basis of a draft territory. It also calls for the municipalities to be eligible for the scheme, in the same way as intercommunities. With this text, we have a new illustration of the desire to deprive citizens and their elected representatives of the means of intervention. If I refer to a new illustration, it is that we are here in line with the measures taken in February in the name of simplification of standards and efficiency. I am thinking of the authorization given to the prefects to take measures which "will have the effect of reducing administrative procedures, reducing procedural delays or facilitating access to public aid" for "a reason of general interest" or "the existence of local circumstances", without having been precisely defined by the Government. As Marcel Pagnol said: "You have to be wary of engineers, it starts with the sewing machine and ends with the atomic bomb. » Emblématique is in this regard the fate reserved in this text to the Act of February 2015, known as the Abeille Act, on which I had intervened a great deal during the debates under the previous legislature, concerning the deployment of relay antennas. While this law was motivated by a concern about public health and the democratic functioning of the establishment and deployment of mobile and internet telephony facilities, while this law gave a role to local authorities and municipalities in terms of consultation with residents, you decided to return to the previous law for the greatest satisfaction of operators but probably not for that of electrosensitive persons, who see their health affected by exposure to the waves. Not content with weakening the power of mayors and circumventing environmental standards, your bill also addresses architectural standards; This has been said by several speakers. The National Council of the Order of Architects denounces the "destruction of tools of catastrophic architectural quality for the living environment". The abolition of architectural competitions, from which social donors will now be able to do without them, and the dismantling of the 1985 Law on the control of public works are historical setbacks, which are extremely worrying in that they ruin the efforts made for decades to improve the architectural quality of social housing. Here again, you offer us a leap backwards of half a century. A final word to refer to section 15 of the bill, which addresses the assent of the architects of the French buildings in order to speed up and facilitate the issuance of town planning permits. It should be made clear that this article will result in the authorization of the destruction of old buildings in the heritage areas managed today by the architects of the buildings of France. The article is today, I admit, of limited scope, but it is the door open to future extensions of these exceptions, or even the total disappearance of the assent. Thus, as our country has developed, over the centuries, a conscious awareness of a heritage and cultural heritage, the awareness that our space of life is not outside our history, you will damage essential traces. We even heard a speaker tackle preventive archaeology last night. You open a box of Pandora, and I don't know how far it can go! I could still refer to similar violations of the Littoral Act. We are with this text, outside of voluntarism, engaged in a formidable demolition company with thatcherian accents. It goes without saying that we will, in the meagre time that is allotted to us with the procedure of the scheduled legislative time, endeavour to dismantle its false appearances and to uncover the real dangers. Whatever! Thank you for allowing us to snack a few dozen more minutes by late tabling about ten amendments after the expiry of the deadline for Members. In the light of your experience as a parliamentarian, we are well aware that this is a gesture of generosity towards national representation and not the result of a senator's train on your team. Nor do we doubt your willingness to respond, with this bill, to the disastrous housing situation in our country. We do not question your will – I was almost going to say your ethics –; the question is not there. Each of your articles, at least in the perspective you have drawn, is probably a carefully thought-out element, designed to integrate into a larger project to modify the whole of a puzzle, the social puzzle, which has been formed year after year. But this social puzzle, especially on social housing, has been formed through struggles led by citizens and their elected representatives. The final picture is not very good in this bill, as in so many others for the past year. You would be wrong, minister, if you were led to think that we would be in a simple posture – but I know you don't think so. Following Michel Audiard's reply, in Mélodie in the basement, "The essential thing is to grumble. It's kind of good. But I have no doubt that you are far from thinking that of the deputies of the Democratic and Republican Left, of Communist deputies! The various statements made by the Members of the Group are, of course, rigorous but always supported by proposals which, I hope, have shaken your certainty and shaken your pugnacity as a child of the Haute Auvergne. Finally, I cannot resist the desire to quote a very beautiful text from Alexander Vialatte. "The Auvergnat consists basically of the head, trunk and legs. With his head, he thinks the economy, with the limbs, he realizes it, with his hands, he puts it in the drawer. I like the Auvergnat. It is useful and pleasant. He'd be missing if he wasn't here. He's wearing coal, he's serving lemonade. He writes "Thinks," frees America, eats the lard and sells his torrent in retail. His roads are paved with amethysts. He invented the barometer. We owe him the blue-pointed ton. In short, it is pleasant to live and instructive to attend. It's from Auvergne Absolute, Alexandre Vialatte. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I would not want an Auvergnat, compressing his umbrella against his heart at the heart of a ministry, to add, even reluctantly, to this inventory the following sentence: "He is pleasant to live, he is instructive to attend, certainly, but he has liquidated social housing. That would be regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u119	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u120	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs and rapporteurs for opinions, housing is a major concern for our compatriots. He occupies the first position in their budget and is an essential part of their daily lives. And yet our country is facing an unprecedented housing crisis. An increasing number of French people are homeless and mal-housing affects more than 3 million of our citizens. It is therefore particularly urgent to remedy this situation as soon as possible. Housing is typically an area in which any policy can be effective if it applies the principle of subsidiarity; But this is not always the case. For example, with regard to social housing obligations, a single rate for all municipalities is a technocratic aberration. We come to absurd situations where, in some communes, we must continue to build even when some housing is vacant. Our colleague Louis Aliot has tabled a bill to incorporate social home ownership into the 25% rate. As you know, we are very attached to the place of the mayor and communes in the institutional organization of our country. However, the articles concerning the major urban planning operations and the development partnership project give free hands to the State and to the intercommunities. Thus, some projects will be able to be implemented in the territory of a commune against the latter's opinion, which, unfortunately, is still in line with the reduction of the power of the mayors. As Marine Le Pen also proposed during his presidential campaign, I can only welcome the many measures in the text aimed at simplifying procedures, in particular those that regulate abusive remedies. Among the novelties proposed by this text, I support the creation of the mobility lease: this innovation seems to me very suited to many audiences. However, this tool could also be used to protect a number of vulnerable people, often in urgent need of temporary housing. Thus we propose to open this mechanism to persons awaiting divorce or to persons who are victims of violence – domestic violence or intimidation by offenders. The mayor will then be responsible for providing the necessary certificates to use the mobility lease. Concerning the Littoral law, to which, like millions of French, I am very attached, be careful not to open Pandora's box with the question of hollow teeth! As far as social housing is concerned, some of your measures are in the right direction, but the problem is that you are completely avoiding one of the causes of the difficulties in accessing these housing units: of course I want to talk about mass immigration. When the offer is lower than the demand – the Court of Auditors, I remind you, pointed out in its February 2017 report that 1.9 million people eligible for social housing could not find it – we must make choices! We make the choice to accommodate the French as a matter of priority. We make the choice to house honest citizens as a matter of priority: any conviction for a crime or serious offence must prevent access to social housing or lead to immediate expulsion. Social housing is an expression of national solidarity; This solidarity must not be exercised in favour of those who do not respect the most basic laws. Among our other proposals, to increase transparency in the allocation of social housing: we want the allocation committee to be chaired by a representative of the State, a guarantee of neutrality, and above all that the commissions are public. This is a simple solution to fight clientelism and communalism. Finally, a word about the city centres. The recent scheme entitled Action cœur de ville is supposed to alleviate the difficulties of our communes. It will only be effective if it encompasses the entire territory in need. Minister, you have indicated that medium-sized cities are an essential vehicle for the development of our territories. In order for our cities to be able to develop effectively, particularly in the area of housing, it is imperative that the State take its full share by providing the necessary funds. In my riding, the city centre, Bruay-la-Bussière, had not been included on March 27th in the perimeter of the Action coeur de ville program. Following the joint action of the elected representatives, the State authorities agreed to reconsider their position. The revitalization of the hearts of our towns and villages is essential to ensure a new attraction, but for this it is necessary to put an end to yesterday's wanderings accompanied by many local elected representatives. I am thinking in particular of the development of huge commercial areas on the outskirts of the city centres, which have seen their shops shut down and public services disappear one after the other. This text presents some progress but has shortcomings and does not take sufficient account of local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u121	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to your interventions with interest in a critical and constructive debate, which is quite normal. In this debate, of course, we heard a number of criticisms of opposition to the Government's proposals, but also some visions. I listened with interest to President Mélenchon's speech, with a vision, with observations that I can share but with a treatment of problems that is not ours. [[Smile]] Dear President Chassaigne, you know the friendship and the esteem we hold. The amethysts of Auvergne, which you mentioned, the problem is that you kept them all in the Puy-de-Dôme. It's also one of your characteristics. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] When you blame me for my dogmatism, I appreciate the tribute coming from you who excel in this field! I'll bring it out to you! It's the professional who talks to the amateur! It's an exchange of good processes, dear friend.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u123	That's the shepherd's answer to the shepherdess!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u124	I know the passion you have for the Republic, and we can tell each other frankly. Don't move is not a solution. That doesn't mean you always have to move and bougism isn't my cup of tea. On some subjects, however, societal and technological developments are such that we must move. We can certainly consider that we are not doing it in the right way. This is the democratic game. You're talking, dear President Chassaigne, about mobile phones. While in many departments, including mine, many of our fellow citizens do not receive mobile networks – they don't even have a fixed phone anymore! – you tell us that we should keep the procedures, the blockages and the deadlines that prevent these fellow citizens from benefiting from progress. I don't think that's the solution. I do not want to focus the debate on our answer. On various benches it was recognized that a number of our proposals were in the right direction. In this connection, I welcome the intervention of Mr Saddier, who has shown himself as usual to be quite constructive. That is democratic life. I would just like to stress a few points so that we do not caricature this project, even if it can and must be challenged since it is the rule in democracy. We are accused of removing powers from mayors and giving too much power to EPCI when we have maintained a real balance. Besides, who makes up the intercommunities, if not local elected officials and mayors? For having been president of a town for sixteen years I believe I have practiced listening to mayors. Not everyone can say the same. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] When I hear those who, not so long ago, have never consulted the local authorities when they made the territorial reform give me lessons in this field, I find it a bit of coffee! I recall the merger of the regions, the NOTRE law: who was consulted before merging the regions? No one! Then please! These trials of intent do not correspond to reality. We have consulted and talked a lot about this, and that is normal. I like the power of mayors; I am interested in the power of local authorities. And when we create ORTs – an operation to revitalize the territory – when we launch action on medium-sized cities, the fundamental feature is to let mayors, communities define their projects, facilitate their implementation and empower them to accelerate them. If this is not to trust the mayors! Indeed, those who benefit from it were willing to acknowledge that this was indeed a sign of confidence in local communities. So no trial of intent in this matter. There were certainly the demands of the Association of Mayors of France, but other associations did not have the same ones. Here too, let us keep the balance, respect each other. I will take a second example, the restructuring of social housing. We may disagree and consider that nothing should be changed. I hear Mr Peu, whose competence and convictions I know about social housing, say that the situation is better in France than in foreign countries. That's not always what I hear! But considering that there is no need for reform, I do not think that is the solution. It is claimed that the convention I signed with the HLM world would not be accepted by the base and would be the work of technocrats. Among the signatories are Jean-Louis Dumont, president of the Union sociale pour l'habitat – I do not think it is a bureaucrat or a technocrat – or Marie-Noëlle Lienemann, whom I know well and with whom I have often worked: neither do I have the impression that it is the quintessence of bureaucracy or technocracy. So let's be measured on that. No, we do not demolish social housing in contrast to what some media claim – which does not prevent me from respecting them because, even when we are not content with what they say, it is important that this freedom exists. As the Director-General of the Caisse des dépôts said yesterday in front of elected officials, putting 10 billion euros in this sector is not nothing. President Chassaigne, you must know that I will see to it that this model is protected, because I can hear you. We may not agree on the methods of restructuring, but we need the HLM world and we will ensure that it continues to exist in this country. Don't say we're not listening. You think I didn't listen to you about the interesting work you did on sleep merchants. This text proposes its implementation and we will further improve it. This is the real dialogue, and it is also true of proposals from the other side of this House. Another example is architects. Don't say we're removing the use of the architect. It has only been mandatory for two years. Don't say that everything that's been done before has disfigured our urban planning. It is the social donors who have asked us, and forcefully, that this be optional. The contest will not be prohibited but it will become optional again. Some will continue to use it. The MOP law must evolve, but the role of the architect will not be called into question. On the SRU law or the littoral law I have heard contradictory proposals, and that is normal. I say again here, we want to keep the backbone of the SRU law because we consider it to have been a step forward in the construction of social housing. With regard to the coastal law, on which the deputies of Corsica have spoken in particular, it is necessary to take the necessary measures to avoid its destructuring. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] One last word on simplification. You champion of standards, dear President Chassaigne! Standards are needed, but they must not be accumulated. We are in a country that has tied up with an accumulation of texts and laws. Having been a senator for nine years, I know that I have contributed to it, you too, all of us contribute to it. By accumulating constraints, we lose the ability to undertake, realize and respond to the needs of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u125	Mr Andre Chassaigne has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u126	As you know, some government amendments were tabled after the deadline imposed on Members. This opens the door to ten minutes of additional speaking time per parliamentary intervention group on the article on which these amendments were tabled and five more minutes for non-attached people – who will be able to thank me! I would therefore like to know precisely on which articles these amendments have been tabled so that we can make the best use of these additional ten minutes. Should we ask them when the article comes into discussion? Or we can agree from the beginning on the articles on which each group will have an additional ten minutes and the non-attached groups will have an additional five minutes. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] It is very important that we have these details to save time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u127	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u128	On the basis of Rule 58, paragraph 1, concerning the holding of our debates. We will finally begin the discussion of the text, scheduled for eight days. With the hindsight we have regarding the review of the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector known as EGAlim and knowing that the text we are discussing is twice as long, that the additional time has rightly come to be asked by President Chassaigne, I wonder if we will be finished next Wednesday – let me doubt it... I am concerned because President Mézard hopes to be able to sign the first City Heart Action contract on Friday 8 June at 8 a.m. However, his presence among us would still be desirable if we continued our work. I therefore hope that the Conference of Presidents will be able to meet so that we all have real visibility and that we can consider our discussions calmly. For our employees, for your employees, for the staff of the administration, it is important. It has been planned that we will work a weekend; Will that also be a second? The quality of our debates is at stake. I would not like the discussion of the last articles, which deal with very important issues – on the eve of the Pentecost weekend, we had dealt very quickly with the last articles in committee. If we want quality work, it is important to have quality debates. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Today, there is a great deal of concern about the scheduling of the sessions. In addition to the remarks made by President Chassaigne, I ask that we be able to have a fair view of the duration of our debates, that we be able to know how they are planned, in particular whether they will last beyond Wednesday 6 since Thursday 7 is entirely reserved for a parliamentary niche. Will we resume consideration of the text on Friday, 8th? Will we take it back the next Monday? We all need to know.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u129	Mr Bazin, we are just starting our debates. A timetable has been set by the Conference of Presidents, in which all the group presidents or their representatives have participated, so as it stands, we are sticking to it. Then we will notify, and this will not be the first time. President Chassaigne, the Government has indeed used its right to table amendments beyond the time limit. This, of course, gives Members the same opportunity to comment on the articles concerned by these amendments. Additional speaking time is also allocated for each of the articles on which the government amendments have been tabled. It has been defined, I told you: it is an additional ten minutes per item for all groups and five minutes for non-registrants. Beyond these ten minutes, the different groups – not the non-attached ones – can of course always speak, but their speaking time is counted from their overall time. The ten minutes are extra.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u130	By article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u131	By article on which the amendments have been tabled, you are given another ten minutes. Beyond that, statements are recorded in the overall time, which is logical. Non-registrants, whose treatment is sometimes somewhat unusual, benefit from a relative advantage, since they are allocated an additional five minutes per item concerned. I see that Mr Pupponi also wishes to make a point of order and I will give him the floor a moment ago, but I will answer the question asked, even if announcements have already been made – politics, like pedagogy, is an art of repetition! Governmental amendments were tabled on Articles 1st, 2 before Article 5, after Article 21, as well as on Articles 24, 28f, 47a, 54c, 56e and 62b. What I have told you applies to each of these articles. Mr François Pupponi has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u132	There is the question of speaking time, but also of the time limit for re-opening the tabling of amendments. However, since the Government's amendments were still being dealt with, the deposit was not open. So let us be told which amendments have been tabled out of time and how long we have to table amendments on these articles! We can't find out! I asked the question yesterday at seventeen and I am still waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u133	The answer is constant and not specific to this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u134	Yes, but, President...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u135	Whenever the Government, which alone has the capacity to do so, tables an amendment on an article out of time, in return, parliamentarians may also table amendments on the same article. The possibility is open, this is constant, until the article is discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u136	If I may, president: the Government would have tabled amendments out of time, which is its right...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u137	The strictest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u138	...but they are still being dealt with by the Assembly's services. Meanwhile, the deadline for tabling amendments by parliamentarians is not open.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u139	I have indicated to you the articles on which the amendments were tabled by the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u140	Indeed...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u141	... and on which you can table amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u142	You just gave us the list we've been asking for since yesterday.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u143	... which may also be removed from the governmental concerns expressed in its new amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u144	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u145	...the whole article being kind of reopened. I would also remind all parliamentarians that we still have the possibility of under-amendment of government amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u146	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u147	...whether they were filed within or outside the deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u148	We need to get the official list so that all groups can work on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u149	On the articles I have just mentioned, you and all our colleagues can table amendments. I am also told that we are aware of the Government's amendments to the articles that I have indicated and that they will be available online at the end of the 13 hour break. We will therefore be able to work without problems, everything works, everything works, everything is respected and, in addition, groups and non-registrants will be able to have additional speaking time. Is everything clear?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u150	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u151	Mr Raphaël Gérard, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor to support Amendment No 592 on the additional article before Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u152	In the general discussion, we said how important this bill is to free and facilitate construction in our country in order to respond to an emergency for the four million people who are poorly housed or without housing. During this discussion, on almost every bench, I also heard some concern about the absence or lack of reminders about the importance of architecture and architectural quality. This amendment, which has been discussed at length in the Committee on Cultural Affairs, makes it possible to restore some of this balance between a technical text which, once again, contains a number of very useful measures to facilitate construction, and a will which seems to be fairly widely shared in this House aimed at making the quality of construction in terms of sustainability, architectural and environmental quality, respect for balance, one of the fundamental principles to be introduced into the general principles of the urban planning code. This may seem a bit symbolic, but I believe that when we open this discussion, we need symbols and that it is one, strong, allowing us to send a signal about our concern and, I have no doubt for a moment, that of the Government to maintain this high level of requirement on architectural quality. This would also allow us to begin responding to this kind of somewhat absurd and very Franco-French dichotomy that I denounced yesterday: the systematic separation of architecture and the act of building. Historically, these two areas are divided into two departments which, unfortunately, do not speak very much or, in any case, do not listen very much. When such a malfunction persists, it is our duty as parliamentarians to point it out, to point it out, to try to correct it and to ensure that we finally have a comprehensive, coherent, "at the same time" vision of what the architecture and the act of building are and must be. No doubt, and I agree, this amendment does not have a very binding legislative scope, but it is a strong symbol. If, at the dawn of this discussion, which will undoubtedly occupy us for long hours over the next few days and nights, we were able to achieve a great deal of unanimity to say that we all agree on this importance of architectural quality, this would also be an extremely strong symbol.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u153	I call Mr Lioger, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u154	We all agree on the need for symbols, except that, as the minister said earlier, no section of this Act alters the architectural quality. Moreover, this amendment is not normative. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u155	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u156	We consider this amendment to be largely satisfactory. Because it is limited to constructions, it is in fact more restrictive than the existing provisions in the urban planning and heritage codes. Unfavorable opinion
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u157	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u158	[[Applause on several benches of the La République en marche group]] I support my colleague Raphaël Gérard, draftsman of the opinion. As he said, his amendment goes in the direction of a just rebalancing to succeed the triptych: building more, better and cheaper.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u159	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u160	I also support the amendment by Raphaël Gérard, adopted in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. This provision introduces elements that would ease fears about certain provisions of this bill expressed by defenders of heritage and architectural creation. Let us not forget that today's creation is the heritage of tomorrow! The 1977 laws on architecture and 1985 laws on the control of public works were drafted in response to the wanderings of post-war construction, where the absence of a rule, justified by the urgency of rebuilding the country and the lack of awareness of qualitative issues, allowed the production of buildings of poor quality – I know it for having lived in this kind of housing. Today we are paying the price, in every respect. The act of building is therefore not a technical act responding to economic constraints, it is also a cultural act – Raphaël Gérard recalled it. We are therefore aware of the importance of quality. That is why we have a responsibility: to guarantee the future of the environmental, architectural and heritage quality of the projects to our fellow citizens, including and especially for the construction of low-cost housing. The reduction in construction costs would be a good misconception if it led to an increase in maintenance and maintenance costs, with short-term savings being in the end well overtaken by an increase in overall costs. It would be futile to build a housing building without also questioning the lifestyles and expectations of its future occupants. We all know the problems of citizenship that can be generated by habitats where collective life has not been well thought out. This bill will necessarily have a significant impact on the architectural quality of new constructions and the quality of life of our fellow citizens over the next few years – especially since, directly accessible, the architecture of buildings is accessible to all: unlike a museum or a show, where the public chooses to go, a first access to culture is the observation of the environment in which we are located; He's free, he's free, he's a must. The overall reflection upstream of the projects on uses engages a virtuous circle as soon as the project design takes into account the integration into the environment and current lifestyles. Let us be aware of the importance, for the inhabitants, of living in a beautiful building in which they recognize themselves and in which it is pleasant to live! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] That is why, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u161	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u162	I also support Mr Raphaël Gérard's amendment, which we adopted in committee: when it comes to living together, the symbol becomes reality. To this end, I thank you for voting for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u163	You who like symbols...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u164	Mr Mickaël Nogal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u165	I return to the arguments put forward by the Government and the rapporteur. It is clear that the quality of the living environment is a major issue for all Members, and we will have the opportunity to return to it during the examination of this text. Nevertheless, I agree with the rapporteur and I do not think it is necessary to vote on this amendment, because the signal he intends to send is already in the text. I therefore call for a vote against this amendment and I would like to reassure my colleagues that we will ensure, in this debate, that the living environment is preserved. The willingness of the Government and all colleagues working on the subject was to strike a balance between the need to build more and the need to ensure quality housing and a pleasant living environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u166	On Amendment No 592, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u168	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u169	I am a little concerned about the holding of our debates. If we are already spending our energy on an amendment such as this one, which certainly has a laudable objective – and we will vote on it, because it is not pointless to put these good intentions in writing – we should not imagine that it will solve the problems. We can see the game that is at work in the majority: some amendments go in one direction, others in the opposite direction, and we are being proposed amendments which I will call 'guarante' amendments, which do not deal with the real subjects and, in any case, which do not create any standard, no obligation relating to the quality of constructions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u171	This law deals with many issues and we will have to put all our energy on the essential issues. There is little point in voting for amendments such as this, which merely indicate intentions, if they are not, in the rest of the text, followed by effects. On the issue of accessibility, for example, we voted in committee on an amendment which expressed this concern about making housing accessible, but it will have very little impact if we do not amend the article on this issue. Beyond this display of objectives, we must go further and give guarantees on the quality of the constructions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u172	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u173	We have had lengthy debates in committee, which were reopened during the general discussion. I have seen a change of tone since the examination of the text in this Chamber, which may be due to the size of the place, or to the virtues of the time programmed. I really hope that we will stay on the substance of the text, remain on the essentials. From this point of view, this amendment, as my colleague Mickaël Nogal has said very well, does not seem to me to be in line with the objectives of this bill, which is not intended to introduce the law of the jungle into the HLM cities or sharks in construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u174	Even the members of your majority think so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u175	It aims only to take into account the fact that the system, despite all its virtues, is failing, that it no longer meets the objective of social cohesion, on which we all agree, that it no longer meets the objective of social mobility – and not only geographical mobility – on which we all agree. The aim of this text is to break a corner in certain procedures which, unfortunately, have kept us all from doing so. The architects will continue to do their work, the architects of the Bâtiments de France will continue to do their work, as will the promoters, the commissions and the local authorities. We will only try to simplify the procedures, in order to give a little mobility to a sector that has lost it. You said, Mr. Little, that social cohesion exists in your neighbourhood. You know, we talked about it, that I grew up in an HLM city. I had that chance. It was fifty years ago, it was before the crisis and before the system in which we find ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u176	It wasn't the same neighborhood!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u177	The neighborhoods have changed a lot since then, you're right. And social cohesion, which was a force at the time, no longer exists. Today, we live in house arrest and ghettoization. We have to change that! At the time, you know, Mr. Little, a party had a particular role in social cement in the suburbs like the one where I grew up, and you know it well. That party no longer plays that role. The social cement in these cities has disappeared. We must reinvent it, but we must also make sure that by selling housing, for example, we can introduce social mix from above, as you asked, that we can finance the construction of new housing. In the days that separate us from the vote on this bill, which will take place on Wednesday or a little later – it will depend on your prolixity to all – I invite you to keep in mind our objectives and to go to the essentials.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u178	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u179	It is obvious that we cannot be opposed to the objectives of this amendment, but it really has no interest, since it is only making the law talkative. In the committee of laws, of which Jean-Luc Warsmann, present here, was one of the eminent presidents, we have always been keen to prevent the law from becoming talkative and from being reduced to declarations of intent. However, this amendment is only a declaration of intent. The law must be normative and should apply. We will vote for this amendment, because we agree with the direction it proposes, but in reality it does not serve much.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u180	I put to the vote Amendment No. 592.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u181	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2037.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u182	This amendment echoes the statement made earlier by my colleague Stéphane Peu. In this bill, housing is defined as a good, a commodity, a commodity, and at no time is it reaffirmed as a right. Moreover, there is no legal definition of housing in our current law. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to give it a clear definition, based on the formula proposed by the High Committee on Housing for the Disadvantaged. Indeed, it seemed unthinkable to us to work on the main purpose of this bill without defining it. Again, housing is never defined as a right in your bill. A text that aims to reform housing – even if we question the meaning of the reform that you are considering – must propose an objective definition of housing and highlight the fact that it is above all a right. It is true that it is not formally enshrined in the French Constitution. Nevertheless, the right to housing is a fundamental right. Given all the difficulties we face today, it is essential to consolidate and strengthen this right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u184	My colleague, I understand the general idea of this amendment. However, its wording, and in particular the terms "to relax", "to sleep", "to receive" seem to us to be too imprecise legally. On the other hand, the construction and housing code already contains precise criteria for defining the conditions that every dwelling must comply with. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u186	Article R 111-1-1 of the Construction and Housing Code defines the concept of housing. With regard to decent housing, which we will have the opportunity to discuss again, there are several definitions, one of which was made by decree of 30 January 2002. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u187	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-31-O1239.u188	Next meeting, at 3 p.m.: Further consideration of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
