ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u2	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor to raise question No. 408 by Mrs Naïma Moutchou, concerning the care of unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u3	Madam Minister, my colleague Naïma Moutchou's question concerns the care of unaccompanied minors in Val-d'Oise. In recent years, the number of arrivals in France of foreign minors, called unaccompanied minors – MNA – has risen sharply. Thus, in 2017, there were 25,000 foreign minors taken over by the departments. MNAs are not subject to the rules of entry and residence of aliens and are not subject to any removal measures. They are subject to the ordinary law of child protection. Upon arrival in France, they are taken care of by the department's child welfare services – ASE – as part of a five-day temporary reception, after which they are oriented towards the appropriate structures. Some territories are experiencing a particularly large influx of MNA. In Val-d'Oise, 2100 miners came to the service of ESA in 2017, compared to 700 in 2016. As a result, the Department's budget increased sharply from €8 million in 2013 to €30 million in 2017. Under heavy pressure and overtaken by the influx of foreign minors, the departments felt abandoned by the State. They therefore asked him to play an increased role in the care of isolated foreign minors. This request was partially heard. For example, the State has provided social assistance for children with an exceptional amount of EUR 96 million, aimed at financing the care of MNAs, including the reception and evaluation phase. The department of Val-d'Oise is one of the thirty-seven departments that received a state allocation for 2017 in excess of 1 million euros, as part of the increase in the number of MNAs. However, this assistance is still insufficient in view of the saturation of the arrangements for the care and shelter of the MNAs, as well as the resulting financial burden on the departments. Many shortcomings are still to be regretted, particularly among the mechanisms for assessing the minority and the degree of isolation of young people. More than just a gesture, the departments need a tense hand, a large-scale support action. I would therefore like to know the solutions envisaged by the State to support more, humanly and financially, departments such as that of Val-d'Oise faced with important arrivals of MNA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u4	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u5	The Government pays particular attention to the warnings issued by the departments in this regard, which indicate that the child protection systems have reached saturation levels. In the Val-d'Oise department, the number of MNAs increased from 319 in 2017 to 338 on 23 November this year. This figure corresponds to persons recognized as minors. The increased presence of unaccompanied minors in the Territory of course creates tensions, on the one hand between the departments, due to the disparities between them, and on the other hand for the policy of child protection, whose departments are major actors. That is why the Prime Minister carried out a very sustained interministerial work, in which the Assembly of the French Departments participated. It has identified four main axes. The first axis is to improve the financial conditions for taking over the period of assessment and sheltering of the MNAs. As of 1 January 2019, the Government has decided to increase the support provided to departments in this regard. It will pay, on a flat-rate basis, 500 euros per young person during the evaluation phase, and 90 euros per day of accommodation for fourteen days and then 20 euros until the twenty-third day, i.e. a total of 1940 euros per person, to be compared to the 1250 euros previously paid. In addition, the Government has provided the departments concerned with exceptional funding equivalent to 30 per cent of the costs of taking care of MNAs received in excess of 31 December 2017 compared to 31 December 2016. In this context, the Val-d'Oise department was compensated for €1.668 million. The second axis is to limit the phenomena of double evaluation or re-evaluation of ADNs. To this end, we will set up a biometric file as of January 2, 2019. This file, shared between departments, will be an essential tool for rapid, reliable and quality MNA support. We are also working to harmonize the criteria for assessing their age. Under the third axis, we plan to publish, in conjunction with the inter-ministerial mission for the protection of women from violence and the fight against trafficking in human beings, a circular on combating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. Finally, the fourth axis aims to enable, within the framework of the ongoing inter-ministerial work, the provision of care adapted to the specific nature of the NCMs, through the establishment of a specific offer of care as soon as they are sheltered, an offer of education and access to the law when they are taken over by the child protection services, as well as the dissemination of good practices of care during their minority and their access to the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u6	Mrs Danielle Brulebois, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 405, on the proliferation of the box pyral.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u7	My question is to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. I associate Julien Borowczyk, Member of Parliament for the Loire. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the pyral of boxwood, a butterfly from South-East Asia. For several years, it has been proliferating continuously in the Jura department, where it causes numerous damage. It attacks parks, gardens and forest environments. The presence of this insect is a real embarrassment for the inhabitants of the department, because of the number of individuals, their density and the nuisances they cause. The pyral of the box is responsible for the risk of fires that could damage the areas of housing, health risks, and a significant deterioration in the quality of life. With regard to natural damage, this butterfly causes a strong defoliation of the box, destruction of their bark and a reduction in the number of their buds. The eradication of this insect through biocontrol, in particular by the use of bacillus thuringiensis produced for the removal of caterpillars laid by the pyral of the box, reaches its limits. The inhabitants therefore lack the means to combat the presence and development of this butterfly. Currently, the box borer is classified as a third category within the health hazard classification established by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The situation is deteriorating. The butterfly colonizes new territories without interruption. It therefore turns out that this classification in the third category is inappropriate. Is it possible to classify the box borer as the second category of health hazards, with a view to deploying a plan adapted to the gravity of the situation on the ground?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u8	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u9	Madam Member, your question is about the proliferation of the box pyral, a native butterfly in the wet subtropical regions of Asia. A defoliator of the box, it is now massively present on European territory. Omnipresent in the south and central Hexagon, the box borer has progressed northward and reached new departments. Caterpillars caused significant damage in infested areas, sometimes to the death of the defoliated box. At present, the means of control available are limited. In parks and gardens, methods of regulating existing populations do not allow eradication. In forest areas, chemical treatment is not possible, for both technical and economic and environmental reasons. The box pyral is spread throughout Europe. At the international level, it was removed from the alert lists of the European Plant Protection Office in 2011 due to its wide dissemination. At national level, it is classified as a third category health hazard, due to its wide dispersion, which obstructs any prospect of eradication. Health surveillance of the Territory has been adapted. For example, the Department of Forest Health of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food conducts continuous monitoring of areas defoliated by the box borer. In addition, the National Institute for Geographic and Forest Information – IGN – was instructed by the Ministry to qualify the level of damage during its next forest inventory campaign. Finally, the box borer is monitored as part of the national epidemiosurveillance network. In this context, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the development of new means of struggle. He asked the Institut national de la recherche agronomique – INRA – to test the effectiveness of several ways of biological control, based in particular on the search for natural parasites of pyral eggs. In addition, the placing on the market of a new product for the control of box borers, based on sex pheromones, has been authorised by way of derogation. Finally, research is under way on the consequences of attacks, natural hazards, fire risk, soil erosion and block falls from mountain walls.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u10	The next speaker is Mr Julien Borowczyk, to put his question, No 402, on fish farming in the Loire ponds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u11	I would like to alert the Minister of Agriculture and Food about the situation of fish farmers in the ponds of the Loire department, and more generally of France. I associate myself with my question, Danielle Brulebois, Member of Parliament for Jura. Pond fishing is a historical activity whose origins date back to the 13th century. The recreational fishery has more than 1.5 million licensees in our country. Commercial fishing in ponds was a major economic activity a few decades ago. To return to my constituency, the Forez has 300 ponds, which occupy a total area of 1500 hectares. They are part of the cultural heritage of the department, and are the place of a significant economic activity. They are also involved in regulating river flows and constitute water reservoirs. This heritage is common with other regions, such as Sologne, Brenne and Dombes. For several years, the yield of the Forez ponds has declined sharply. In 20 years, production has collapsed from 400 kg of fish per hectare to 100 kg of fish per hectare. All fish farming regions face the same disaster. As a result of this development, pond owners are gradually abandoning this activity. In the Forez, 300 ponds have already disappeared, and with them a unique biodiversity. Many owners, disembodied, are considering filling their ponds, which would have adverse effects on the natural environment. For the most part, this decline in productivity is due to the proliferation of piscivorous species, in particular that of the great cormorant, who is the first responsible for this situation. In France, it collects an average of 30000 tonnes of fish per year. It can capture fish weighing up to 1.5 kilos and inflict injuries on the bulk of the fish that affect their development. Once a migrant, he is now sedentary in the Forez and other areas, with ponds providing him with a pantry throughout the year. This puts the fish sector in jeopardy in the Forez, as well as in other fish farming areas. I would therefore like to know what measures the Government intends to take to preserve this heritage, which is the special feature of Forez and several other French regions, and what measures it intends to take to combat the proliferation of piscivorous species in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u12	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u13	Mr President, your question concerns the difficult situation of fish farmers in the Loire ponds, particularly because of the predation of the great cormorant. Be aware that this subject is followed by the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which ensure the right balance between the preservation of fish activity, the preservation of fish species living in open waters and the protection of birds. In this regard, following the evaluation procedure for the Nature Directives which was completed in November 2016, the European Commission decided not to propose any amendments. The Grand Cormorant therefore remains protected under the general scheme for the protection of all species of birds, in accordance with the Directive of 30 November 2009 on the conservation of wild birds. However, it allows exceptions to the prohibition on the destruction of specimens, in particular with a view to preventing significant damage in fish farming areas. In France, the regulatory framework for the firing operations of large cormorants allows prefects to grant derogations from the prohibitions on the destruction of large cormorants, with departmental quotas for the period 2016 to 2019. Thus, the Loire department was allocated an annual destruction quota of 1,650 specimens, or 4,950 birds in three years, of which 4,050 were fish farming areas. The prefect of the department can thus issue individual authorizations to fish farmers who have justified means of disarray and economic loss. And in areas where damage is particularly severe, nest and egg destruction operations can also be exceptionally permitted by prefects. The results of the new census of the population of large breeding and wintering cormorants in France will be known at the end of this year. They will provide an update on the demographic development of their population, provide an objective basis for the quotas for the period 2019-2022 and propose, if necessary, adjustments to the scheme to better take account of all the issues at stake. Finally, I would like to point out that certain financial aid under the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund helps fish farmers to better protect their flocks from predation, using equipment such as nets, actions such as scarfing or new protection systems that they promote research.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u14	Mr Frédéric Barbier has the floor to put his question, No. 400, on health and poverty plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u15	Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the measures that will be taken following the presentation last September of the health and poverty plans by the President of the Republic. These plans have received broad approval from the associations, for one, and from health professionals, for the other. The poverty plan envisages combating inequalities, from early childhood to adulthood. It guarantees children's fundamental rights on a daily basis and promotes the training of young people as well as more personalized support. In addition, it places activity and employment at the heart of the fight against poverty. Finally, it aims to reshape the welfare state by "throwing the neck" to the fatality that would have the poor born die poor. The objective of the health plan is to prevent and protect, by providing access to care throughout the country, including in rural areas. It places the patient at the center of the system, allows to train more doctors thanks to the removal of the numerus clausus and reorganizes city medicine by restructuring it in order to relieve the congestion of our hospitals, notably by creating the new profession of medical assistant. Above all, it gives all our fellow citizens the opportunity to take care of themselves, while today one in ten Frenchmen give up care for financial reasons. The President of the Republic has indicated that a national consensus is needed on these ambitious plans that take on key issues for our country, thus decreeing a general mobilization. Minister, what concrete measures do you intend to put in place in the territories so that professionals, associations, other partners and the public can take it? Is decentralization aimed at keeping as close as possible to local realities going and, if so, at what level?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u16	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u17	Mr President, I would like to say more specifically about the strategy to combat poverty. Poverty is a fight: a struggle on the labour market, of course, but also to access decent housing and quality food, and to stay healthy. Our strategy, built with all the actors, is to fight against determinism that decides life paths from childhood, destroying very early the talents and ambitions of a considerable number of our fellow citizens. A total of €8.5 billion will be invested over four years. You are asking me about the concrete implementation of the plan to combat poverty. The strategy for which it is based is the result of a broad field consultation and its implementation requires a new governance, led and led by all actors, from the territories – because it is on the ground that this fight must be waged. The State will organise regional leadership by actors, associations and communities, as well as users. Facilitators who may be associations or communities will be designated to advance collective work on the various themes of this strategy. With regard to the measures falling within the competence of the departments, which are leaders in the field of social action, the strategy foresees an ambitious contract with the departmental councils. Contractualization work has already been initiated with the "demonstrator territories". The strategy will then be deployed to all departments before the end of the first half of 2019. This contract is based on 135 million euros of appropriations, including 50 million euros of support funds for integration policies for 2019. These appropriations will reach at least 210 million by 2022. This contract covers a set of themes and actions in the areas of social assistance for children, integration, the fundamental rights of children and social work, as well as a second pillar left at the initiative of the departments. They will be able to propose actions in line with the strategy's ambitions, for example in the field of specialised prevention or maternal and child protection. The State will support these actions. Finally, know that I am working particularly on access to care for the most vulnerable, in connection with the "My Health 2022" plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u18	Mr Frédéric Barbier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Taking into account the current movements taking place in our territory, it is very important that we be able to evaluate these policies in the coming months by relying on the departments, whose role is crucial, the elected representatives of the field, the mayors and all the partners who accompany people in difficulty. It is imperative that we know if our policies are effective and if they satisfy users. In particular, I hope that we will be able to have complaints in local communities and thus have feedback to ensure that this ambitious policy, recognised and appreciated by all partners, delivers all the results we expect from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u20	Mr Gaël Le Bohec, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 401 concerning the reimbursement of refurbished medical equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u21	Madam Minister, I recently visited an association that rehabilitates used technical aids, the association Envie Autonomy 35 located in the riding of my neighbour Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie, which associates itself with this question. To date, medical equipment that has been refurbished and certified as such has not been reimbursed by social security. If it were, however, substantial savings could be realized through our health insurance system. According to the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy – CNSA, the loss of autonomy for older people and people with disabilities cost all our public finances a little more than €60 billion in 2015. New technical aids such as wheelchairs, breathing devices or hearing aids alone amount to 13 billion. Of this amount, social security reimburses just under 6 billion, while the rest for patients amounts to more than 7 billion euros. The current reimbursement system is therefore expensive. Moreover, it is unfair because it relies on mutuals to which the most vulnerable people do not always have the means to subscribe. Allowing social security reimbursement for renovated medical equipment would have many advantages: ensuring patients access to affordable equipment, sometimes even for a zero-charged remainder; create, through the social and solidarity economy, new non-relocable economic activities, with the professional inclusion of persons with disabilities; enable more reactive technical assistance to be made available, as the evolution of the disability makes the equipment sometimes obsolete at the time the person receives it; Finally, avoid a waste of material and engage in a transition that is both supportive and ecological. Madam Minister, the reimbursement of technical aids today is based on a list fixed by order after the advice of a committee of the High Health Authority. Is it possible to change this list as quickly as possible so that it includes the equipment that has been refurbished and certified as such?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u22	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u23	I thank you, Mr President, for your question on the treatment of technical aids, particularly those which compensate for disability. First of all, I would like to point out that the reform of 100% health, which will be phased in from 1 January 2019 onwards, will allow insured persons to benefit from baskets of offers which are increasingly being reimbursed, until the total reimbursement, without any remaining burden, by 2021. The hearing aids that will be offered in this basket are quality equipment, both by their aesthetics – the basket includes intraatrial devices – and by their technical performance and associated guarantees. This reform, which represents a major step forward in access to care, responds to the long-standing difficulties regarding technical aids. However, I fully share your diagnosis regarding their management. The current situation is not satisfactory: delays in access to assistance are sometimes long, and this multi-stage system, which involves the personalized assistance of autonomy – APA – or the disability compensation benefit – PCH – but also health insurance, complementary agencies and compensation funds, leads to inequality in access to care. For this reason, on 25 October, on the occasion of the Interministerial Committee on Disability, the Government announced, as part of the priority "Living at home and maintaining good health", the revision of the list of products and benefits reimbursable by health insurance and the updating of the decree setting the rates of the disability compensation benefit for technical aids, in line with the changing needs. Your proposal for the reconditioning of medical devices will be considered in this context. I am of course in favour of extending the life cycle of these devices, and I am well aware of the work being done by the voluntary network in this area, particularly in your constituency. The project of the association Envie Autonomy was selected as part of the call for projects of the French Impact, whose ministry is sponsoring. As you can see, we are following this file closely. But the Government wants to ensure optimal quality and security conditions, and hopes that the economic model developed will not only provide savings for health insurance, as you call it, but also for beneficiaries and citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u24	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u25	Thank you for your commitment, as well as for the commitment previously made by the department. I hope that we can work together on this list. I would also like, at a time when we are talking about a lot of additional expenditure or expenditure, to stress the financial impact that this measure would have. For wheelchairs alone, the economy for social security could be in the range of 60 to 80 million euros, knowing of course that the refurbishments would be certified, with guarantees of quality. In addition to the integration and professionalization aspect of the process, the issue of public accounts is therefore very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u26	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to her question No. 406 on centres for urgent consultation and care.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u27	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the Centres for Urgent Consultation and Care – CCSU. The health system now faces the challenges of the twenty-first century and, to be more effective, must be open to technological innovations and health innovations, as well as to adapt its organization. The health of all French people is at stake. The Essonne has become the health laboratory of tomorrow as desired by the President of the Republic. To address this major issue, the Nord-Essonne Hospitals Group merged on January 1, 2018 all the hospital activities at Longjumeau, Orsay and Juvisy-sur-Orge sites into a unique complex located on the Saclay plateau. This vast hospital complex was formed on July 1, 2016 as a territory hospital group – GHT. The concentration on a single site placed at the heart of an area of biomedical and digital innovations by 2024 will allow the formation of a precursor hospital. The Essonnians are aware that this state-of-the-art health centre is destined to become a European flagship of technology and innovation. This major reorganization of the provision of care in Essonne also leads to a rethinking of the patient's relationship to the path of care proposed to him. In Longjumeau, the hospital has been supported since December 2017 by a centre for urgent counselling and care. The CCSU, which is open from eight hours to twenty-two hours and has a technical platform managed by hospital staff, is still in the experimental phase, but it has already received close to 10,000 patients and is producing promising results, particularly on the crucial issue of the distribution of passages to emergencies, depending on whether the case is vital or not. While the CCSU maintains an important offer of care in parallel with the reorganization of the Nord Essonne Hospitaller Group – GHNE – it is not intended to replace the Longjumeau Hospital or to be an outpatient hospital. Without beds, this structure is not a hospital because heavy operations, deliveries or vital emergencies cannot be treated there. On the other hand, it opens up prospects for closer coordination with city medicine, benefits from the presence of a mobile emergency and resuscitation service – SMUR – and also proposes a scheme for the care of patients different from that of a hospital and more adapted to current medical realities. To ensure good coverage of the territory of the GHNE, other CCSUs must open their doors in Juvisy-sur-Orge and Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois. This model is expected to be developed in addition to care homes, health homes and future territorial professional health communities. Minister, can you clarify how you envisage the development of these models, which are an alternative to "any hospital", by being more flexible but also better adapted to peri-urban and rural environments, and which allow for the maintenance of community-based care?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u28	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u29	Thank you for your question, Madam Member, which allows me to present the Government's ambition for access to care, particularly in your territory. The project to transform the supply of public hospital care in northern Essonne organizes, by 2024, the consolidation of all the activities of the sites of Orsay, Longjumeau and Juvisy-sur-Orge in a new hospital located on the Saclay plateau. In this context, the Nord Essonne hospital group and the Agence régionale de santé – ARS – d'Île-de-France are currently experimenting with the opening of proximity structures to maintain care for patients in the low levels of severity of the medical emergency. These emergency counselling and care centres must be installed in the municipalities of Longjumeau and Juvisy prior to the restructuring of the existing emergency reception services. The SMURs will be maintained at these sites, in the immediate vicinity of the CCSU, thus participating in this strategy of territorial coverage of the emergency. Another centre will have to be deployed in the commune of Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois in order to complete this territorial network. It is an original model for the management of medical emergencies of low severity, in a secure manner, and in close proximity to the population; These structures will allow the team to work in hospital emergency medicine and city generalist medicine. This project fits perfectly within the framework of the "My Health 2022" plan, by which we defend an organization of the activity of the institutions that adapts to the needs of the territories, at different levels. Putting the patient at the heart of the system and making quality management the compass of reform is our policy. Thank you for supporting this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u30	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u31	Parliamentarians wish to participate in the drafting of the terms of reference for these SABs, alongside the SABs. We are at your disposal for this, Madam Secretary of State. I would also be pleased to invite the members of the Government to the inauguration of the CCSU in Longjumeau, which is indeed a beautiful innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u32	Mr Robin Reda has the floor to put his question, No 416, concerning the Juvisy-sur-Orge hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u33	Madam Secretary of State, I will be more nuanced on this issue of community hospitals in North Essonne. You are aware that Île-de-France is the first French medical desert: one in two communes outside Paris does not have a general practitioner, and 4 million Francilians cannot find a treating doctor. In Essonne, 43% of the municipalities are classified as "priority intervention zone" under the provision of care by the Regional Health Agency – ARS. This figure illustrates the extent of medical desertification, including in urban and peri-urban areas close to the capital. Several communes in my electoral district – Juvisy-sur-Orge, Athis-Mons, Savigny-sur-Orge – are in this priority geographical area, while others are in the wake zone. For several years, the Interdepartmental Committee for the Performance and Modernization of the Supply of Care – COPERMO – has been studying a project to merge hospitals in the Nord Essonne region, through the creation of a unique health facility on the Saclay plateau site, up to 2024, and with some funding still uncertain. In spite of the reality of the medical desert recognized by the ARS itself, this project envisages the closure of the hospital sites of Longjumeau, Orsay and Juvisy-sur-Orge as early as 2021. After many years of underinvestment, the hospitals in Juvisy, Longjumeau and Orsay suffer from obvious obstinateness. Despite this, Juvisy's emergencies, for example, record 30,000 passes each year, a constant increase due to the population growth in this sector. The presence of the only emergency service makes the Juvisy hospital the central centre of our local health service: close to the RER station, which sees 70000 passengers per day, and the Orly airport, it is an absolutely essential first resort equipment. The Government calls for the opening of a hospital of the future on the Saclay plateau, and this is probably good news for the Essonne department. But this modernity will only be reserved for a few: since Juvisy, it sometimes takes almost an hour to reach the Saclay plateau. That is why it is my duty as a parliamentarian, supported by all the mayors of my constituency and by many elected representatives of the North Essonne, to remind you of the serious risk that the total arrest of the Juvisy hospital would present for the health of the inhabitants. I also denounce the blackmail – there is no other term – to which Juvisy's elected representatives are subjected, ordered to deliver the old hospital site to the promoters in order to finance a new hospital on the Saclay plateau where the inhabitants of their basin of life will never go. I refuse to allow the inhabitants of my city to remain hostages to accounting, arbitrary and disconnected decisions. There is an urgent need to return to the path of dialogue, which is not the case today with the ARS and the management of the hospital. The Minister of Health stated last August on France Info that there would be no closure of a local hospital. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, explain this statement? If there is no "myth around the closures of emergency services," as the minister said, can you confirm today the Government's commitment to maintaining a hospital in Juvisy-sur-Orge for a long time?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u34	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u35	Member, I know your investment to ensure the best possible access to care in your constituency. Be aware that your concerns are shared by the Government and that we are making every effort to resolve the difficulties faced by many of our fellow citizens. On 18 September, the President of the Republic presented an ambitious programme to transform our health system. Among the 54 detailed measures, several are aimed at addressing territorial inequalities in access to care, such as the abolition of the numerus clausus or the creation of 400 positions of general practitioners and 4000 positions of medical assistants, especially in areas where access to care is difficult. The "Ma santé 2022" plan also provides for the establishment of territorial occupational health communities and doctors' permanences in community hospitals, in order to contribute to a more stable balance between rural and urban areas. With regard to the situation at the sites in Longjumeau, Orsay and Juvisy, I would like to reiterate the commitment made following the COPERMO opinion last June, and also because of the old-fashioned problems you mentioned, to finance the construction of a new-generation hospital on the Saclay plateau, already mentioned in response to Mrs Rixain, to the tune of €215 million by 2024. It will be accessible in less than 30 minutes by any health transportation, and three emergency counselling and care centres – CCSU – will be open in Longjumeau, Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois and Juvisy, which will allow for a response tailored to the needs of the inhabitants. These centres, which are real centres for community care, will provide for the non-vital emergency, up to 35,000 passages per year; They will also offer a wide range of scheduled consultations in general and specialized medicine as well as an advanced technical platform.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u36	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u37	Local elected officials and doctors from the Territory's professional communities have not waited for the Government to open structures such as multi-professional health homes, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u38	That's great!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u39	What we expect of the Government is that it will help us to have adequate public structures and the vanguard of state-of-the-art medicine for all patients in Essonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u40	Mrs Aude Luquet, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 421 on the multiplication of paid car parks in public hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u41	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you today about the increase in the number of paid car parks imposed on patients and visitors to public hospitals, which are often entrusted to private providers. As an example, I will take the recent Melun Hospital of HealthPôle, in my constituency, which set up a paid parking lot while it was free of charge in the former Marc-Jacquet Hospital. This case is not isolated since it concerns dozens of public hospitals throughout France: paying car parks are multiplying, bringing with them incomprehensions and contestations. At Santépôle de Melun, for example, it is necessary to count 21 euros for a three-day package while some patients struggle to advance the price of a doctor's consultation. While it is understood that some hospital centres may be faced with problems of congestion of car parks, as a result of the anarchic parking of users who are neither patient nor visitor, the fact remains that the transition from the free to the payer for the sick and their relatives may appear unfair in their forced situation, which is to consult a doctor or come to support a family member in hospital. In addition, the new hospital infrastructure is increasingly remote from the city centres, leaving no choice but to use the car, due to the lack of adequate and sufficient transport. Madam Secretary of State, what is the Government's view of this growing number of paid car parks within public hospitals, and what are the answers you intend to give to the misunderstandings caused by this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u42	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u43	Thank you for your question, which deals with very concrete situations experienced by many people, including persons with disabilities who have to park in the parks of public hospitals in order to receive the often daily care that their state of health demands. First of all, I would like to point out that the management of parking is not at the heart of the missions of the public hospital. As a result, many establishments decide to entrust the management of the parking lot to a private operator. Practices appear to be very heterogeneous from one institution to another. Some hospitals exempt certain publics, such as disabled people, from the validation and payment of the parking ticket. We do not have any objective evidence to suggest that the practices of health facilities would interfere with the exercise of the right of access to care. To date, the Defender of Rights has thus failed to bring the matter before the Ministry to discuss difficulties in accessing care for financial reasons related to the payment of parking fees. In addition, for the most vulnerable patients, the journeys to the hospital are often made with health carriers, which reduces the costs to be borne by these people. However, your question is essential, and we will not fail to mention it in future discussions with the relevant user associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u44	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u45	I understand that there was no referral to the Defender of Rights. But when you come to visit someone who is suffering in the hospital, or someone who is at the end of life, you don't have the reflex to go to the Defender to complain about the cost of parking. I exchanged another Sunday with a person who comes to see his mother who is at the end of his life: he pays 72 euros a day, in the South Franciscan hospital center. Of course, this does not necessarily depend on the ministry. But when we know that public-private partnerships cost the state, and therefore the taxpayer – and this is the case with the South-Francilian hospital – the question of the actual total cost has to be asked. There is a captive audience here, who has no choice but to come to the hospital. It is a shame to be bound feet and fists to come to see his loved ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u46	The next speaker is Mr Régis Juanico, to put his question, No. 424, concerning the situation of psychiatry in Saint-Etienne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u47	Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the situation of psychiatry in Saint-Étienne. I associate my colleague Senator de la Loire Jean-Claude Tissot. In March 2018, the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty, Adeline Hazan, fired the alarm bell about the treatment of patients in psychiatry at the University Hospital – CHU – in Saint-Etienne. She pointed out in her report that some patients suffered "inhuman or degrading treatment" because of over-systematic restraint or isolation practices. Among the "emergency recommendations" she has addressed to the Minister of Health is the need to ensure, by adequate means, adequate hospitalizations. The excessive use of restraint is, unfortunately, only a consequence of the overloading of overstaffed personnel. They are the first to denounce this situation. Thus, in Saint-Étienne, the staff gathered within the collective Psy Cause have repeatedly expressed their dismay at the impossibility of adequately caring for patients, for lack of resources and time to devote to them. They have been on unlimited strike since 13 September. Patients are faced with a lack of places in psychiatry, but also in medical-psychological centres – CMP. Waiting times are particularly unbearable for families who wish to make an appointment for their children, since they can reach a year and a half! Fifteen days ago, our colleague François Ruffin tabled a bill "to remove psychiatry from budget abuse". I have co-signed it, together with several Members from various groups in our Chamber. As the case of Saint-Étienne unfortunately illustrates, this budgetary abuse takes the form of real ill-treatment on the ground for patients and professionals. Of course, our psychiatry centre will be able to reorganise itself thanks to the construction of a new building, financed to the tune of 22 million euros by the Regional Health Agency – ARS –, a ten-year-old project. But before being real, the needs are human. The CHU management recently announced its intention to recruit ten new psychiatrists next year, in addition to the seven recruited in recent months. What looks like good news is not necessarily reassuring, however, when you know the situation well. Of course, the conditions proposed by management are attractive, not to mention that the CHU de Saint-Étienne is recognized for its level of expertise in several fields and for the quality of its research. But the overload of work is such that psychiatrists quickly run out, and leave. One of these doctors is even in burn out. This is the direct consequence of chronic sub-dotation. With 11 psychiatrists per 140,000 adults, or 7.8 psychiatrists per 100,000 adults, Saint-Étienne is well below the national average of 13.5 psychiatrists. With regard to mental health, the territories of Saint-Étienne and the Ondaine Valley have higher needs than the national average because they concentrate risk factors, such as very high signs of precariousness. And yet, psychiatry services are sorely lacking in space. The average national density of bed and full-time or part-time hospital facilities is 150 per 100,000 inhabitants. With 424,000 inhabitants, the territory of Stéphanois should have 630 places: it has only 440. That is why the Hazan report recommended that the institution should not be left alone in the face of its difficulties. For the time being, the answers we were hoping for for psychiatry in France and in Saint-Étienne are not up to date. What resources does the Government intend to provide to the CHU to address the structural difficulties of the psychiatry centre and the recommendations of the Hazan report?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u48	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u49	Mr. Member, after taking note of the malfunctions identified by the general controller of places of deprivation of liberty, the governance of the Saint-Étienne University Hospital has constructed an action plan based on all the recommendations, which the Regional Health Agency is following closely. To date, almost 60 per cent of the planned actions have been carried out, while the remainder have been undertaken. At the same time, the SRA undertook an inspection mission in early September, which was able to confirm, inter alia, that the General Controller's visit had taken place during a period of very high influx to the EHR's emergency reception service, which explained, without apologising, some of her findings. Actions have been put in place quickly to improve the reception conditions of patients in the general emergency department and to improve the flow of hospitalized patients. I am thinking in particular of the increase in the capacity for hospitalisation in psychiatry with the doubling of certain hospital rooms, pending the construction of the new psychiatry units. I am also thinking of the reorganization of the Psychiatric Emergency Service, in order to strengthen the presence of doctors. As you pointed out, Mr. M.P., the SRA provides financial support to the CHU to develop a specific space within the emergency reception service for patients with psychiatric disorders. In addition, other actions have been taken to put an end to isolations such as restraints that are not in accordance with the law and good practices recommended. An agreement with the High Court is under consideration in order to better define the practical arrangements for hearings. Finally, the measures to fill the vacant posts of psychiatrists have been strengthened: they aim to fill quickly all the posts of staff, medical as well as non-medical, not only in the CHU of Saint-Étienne but in all the CHU, because the problem of psychiatry is unfortunately national.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u50	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u51	This response is insufficient in terms of human resources. With regard to the number of psychiatrists, Saint-Étienne remains structurally underfunded. We will therefore have to speed up recruitment in the coming months, Madam Minister, otherwise we will return to the office.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u52	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor to put his question, No. 398, on child psychiatry in the Havre region.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u53	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, you said that community care should be encouraged, and that everything could no longer be concentrated in the hospital, including obtaining a simple prescription. But in Le Havre, we do the opposite, as shown by the reorganization of the medical-psychological centre – CMP – Charcot. Placed on a living pool of 250,000 inhabitants, this CMP organized its consultations through a network of seven outreach offices, which offered, among other things, psychiatry, psychomotority and speech therapy in the heart of municipalities and neighbourhoods. This organization responded directly to the needs of children, some of whom were unable to travel to the hospital in Le Havre. Unfortunately, since 2015, the management of the hospital group Le Havre, with the approval of the Regional Health Agency – ARS – has been closing these branches. Two of them are going to close their doors again this month. We're being told that we're being rationalized. So, rather than going to the children, it's up to them to go to the hospital for care. This reversal of logic, the consequences of which are disastrous, greatly contributes to the feeling of the state's retreat in neighbourhoods that still need it. Five years after the closure of the first antenna in Gonfreville-l'Orcher, of which I was mayor, among all the children detected as having to benefit from a follow-up at the CMP, only one in two goes there. And those who go there must wait six months to a year before getting a consultation, as long as they can say for children whose difficulties must be dealt with as quickly as possible! I let you imagine the frustration, the incomprehension, even the anger of the parents. While the educational success teams managed to convince them to follow up, they found themselves waiting a year before having to accompany their child to a CMP that is now more than half an hour away from home bus. When the proximity antennas existed, a student could go to the CMP antenna for one hour of class, which greatly facilitated support. Today, with distance, the slightest consultation blocks a half-day or even a full day of class for the child. It is not certain that this is likely to combat its difficulties. We are told locally that psychiatrists no longer want to travel, but why not leave the rest of the team nearby and reserve the child's travel to the practitioner only in cases where it is necessary? Why not want to hear the alternative proposals, made in the interests of children? Is the Government ready to implement them now, in the name of proximity?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u54	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u55	Mr President, you are right. Psychiatry has for too long been the poor parent of medicine. It is in response to this neglect that Agnes Buzyn presented a roadmap for mental health and psychiatry last June and that the plan "My Health 2022" fully integrates this specialty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u56	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u57	The Normandie Regional Health Agency, which declines this national framework, is pursuing a proactive policy throughout the region, with particular attention to the territory of Le Havre. In particular, the ARS has supported the universalization of the hospital group in Le Havre, which has enabled the appointment of a professor from the universities hospital practitioner in paediatrics, which will increase the attractiveness of the discipline in this territory, involve the hospital group of Le Havre in the training of interns and will promote the recruitment of young practitioners in infant and child psychiatry. The number of interns in psychiatry more than tripled between 2010 and 2018, and the regional specialist assistant scheme, set up by the RSA, confirms its usefulness in supporting medical demography. Very recently, the hospital group in Le Havre presented a major investment plan, aimed at bringing together child psychiatry services and some adult psychiatry activities in the city centre, on the Flaubert site. The services of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health are examining with the utmost attention this new real estate project, within the framework of which will develop the medical project pedopsychiatric university. This analysis will be carried out both in terms of the organisation of psychiatric care offers in a territorial vision and in terms of budgetary sustainability. Finally, to be carried out, investment operations will have to be part of a more comprehensive reflection taking into account the institution's investment capacity. This project will have to be carried out in the context of a financial balance which the hospital group in Le Havre has been aiming to find for several years, in order to respond in practice to the needs of the territories where they are most important, and, as you say, Mr Le Havre, to avoid children, to travel thirty minutes by bus to get to an appointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u58	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u59	The agglomeration community has invested significant sums alongside the SRA. Having integrated the situation without a solution, she is now even considering investing in the means of moving families. However, Madam Secretary of State, when you come to the field of budget optimization, you say a big word. We're talking about children, not budget matters! We know that psychiatrists are missing: at Le Havre Hospital, 14 positions in this specialty are not filled. It's telling you where we are! Today, the question is the urgent action to be taken, for example in the case of the numerus clausus, to ensure that this profession is recognized as a major specialty in the care system and that psychiatrists can be truly available in the national territory. The intervention of my colleague Régis Juanico on Saint-Étienne has shown that there is a huge shortage of psychiatrists. There's an emergency. In addition, psychiatrists are surrounded by a whole team – psychiatric nurses, speech therapists, etc. Why doesn't she stay close to the children, when she's been kept? You did not answer that question, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u60	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to speak on his question No 399 concerning the creation of an EHPAD in Saint-Amand-les-Eaux.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u61	The hospital of Saint-Amand-les-Eaux wishes to build, on a four-hectare wasteland belonging to the city, an accommodation facility for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – a real senior village, in line with the lifestyles of the 21st century. As a result of the merger of the two current EHPADs, ageing and no longer complying with current standards, the future set would retain the same number of beds – 294 in total – but would be divided between several units of life of about 20 beds each. Instead of the long cold corridors characteristic of the large EHPADs, these units would be connected by green alleys, small shops or places of life. The management rate would also remain unchanged, since the file is calibrated to a constant wage bill, an important point for us. The stated ambition of such a project is not only to provide a human-sized living environment, with a landscaped garden, but also to allow a real residential journey according to the age of the people. The programme thus integrates a secure living unit for highly dependent elderly people. More harmonious, the site will also be open to the city thanks to the shops and local services that the city wishes to develop. It will even include a crèche, to promote intergenerational exchanges. Solid and comprehensive, the file of the future EHPAD of Saint-Amand-les-Eaux received a favourable reception from the management of the Regional Health Agency – ARS – which we recently met. However, the government's financial commitment decision continues to be postponed, for the first time until the end of 2017, a second in the summer of 2018. With each request for new information made by the RSA, the hospital provided responses to the point that 38 funding scenarii were advanced. The overall budget of the operation amounts to EUR 32.7 million including all taxes. In order not to increase the price of the day, which is currently affordable and adapted to the population, the hospital of Saint-Amand-les-Eaux needs the support of the State, via the ARS, to the tune of 3 million euros. This is a significant amount in relation to the total annual budget of the ARS, which stands at EUR 5 million per year for all the Hauts-de-Frances. My question is twofold: will the State confirm its commitment to the future EHPAD of Saint-Amand-les-Eaux, for which the Northern Department is ready to contribute 1 million euros? In this case, and in order to encourage the spread of the expenditure for the RSA, is the State ready to accept a multi-year programming of its financial commitment, as the hospital of Saint-Amand-les-Eaux proposed?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u62	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u63	Mr President, the EHPAD project you mention is the result of a reflection led by the teams at the Saint-Amand-les-Eaux hospital centre. As you pointed out, it aims to bring together on a single site two existing EHPADs, which no longer always meet the conditions for the reception and support of our seniors and whose operating costs appear to be high today. This project was the subject of intensive and constructive exchanges between the teams of the ARS, the Northern Departmental Council and the hospital centre. It makes it possible to include the institution in a more inclusive society for people who are losing their autonomy, especially the elderly. Imagined in the heart of the city, in the midst of shops and housing, it is intended to allow this EHPAD and its residents to register in a neighborhood life and to open up to the city. I know, honourable Member, that, as you recalled, you were received by the Director General of the Regional Health Agency with Mr.Boquet a few days ago. This exchange was an opportunity not only to welcome the quality of the project, but also to identify several points of vigilance, the first of which concerns the financing plan, which must be finalised in view of the financial sustainability of the project for the hospital centre. It will be necessary to examine the consequences of too much debt on the potential evolution of the daily price, particularly with regard to the level of pensions of the population of the territory and the consequences for the financial balance of the hospital centre. The elements provided by the head of the institution will now have to be monitored and reviewed by the Agency's services. This is what is being done, in order to be able to justify the state's investment via the SRA. Finally, the Executive Director has pledged that the SRA will provide support for the investment, the amount of which has not yet been decided – it will be at the end of the ongoing studies and exchanges. In all cases, the Director-General has made a commitment to bring together all the technical actors by the end of the year to decide definitively on the follow-up to this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u64	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u65	You stress the debt resulting from this project. But this will be even lower as the State's share of the financing will be large. I would remind you that this is the merger of two EHPADs into one: the support of the State must be at the level of this large-scale project, which has been developed at constant wage bill. It is therefore still necessary to define the modalities. A two- or three-year government commitment would meet the city's expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u66	The next speaker is Mr Sébastien Chenu, to put his question, No. 428, on the health transport of hospitalized patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u67	My question concerns the change in the responsibility for the transport of hospitalized patients, in this case by ambulance companies. Article 80 of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2017 provides that health institutions must now finance inter-hospital transport which was previously covered by the national health insurance fund. Health establishments must therefore contract with health transport companies on the basis of tariffs which are not linked to the agreed rates of health insurance. This contract gives rise to calls for tenders to which ambulance companies are obliged to respond by being competitive. To win these tenders, companies must now regroup, bid or agree to work at prices below their cost. Of course, large transport groups want to win over this new market. There is therefore a risk that the principle of the least-so-called will prevail, which would cause the bankruptcy of many small health transport companies, the destruction of many jobs and the uberisation of the ambulance profession that irrigates our territories. This reform also deprives the patient of the free choice of his carrier while the main objective of the health transport professionals is the satisfaction of the patient. In the face of the revolution that has shaken this profession, of which I have met several representatives in my constituency, especially in the commune of Lourches, what measures are you planning to support TPEs and out-of-town SMEs and ensure the sustainability of their activities?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u68	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u69	You are referring to a reform that came into force this year under Article 80 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2017, which aims to transfer to the budget of health facilities the transport between hospitals so that they can rationalise and better manage their entrances and exits. This transfer of expenditure represents about EUR 300 million, or only 5% of the amount of transport reimbursements by health insurance. It does not concern medical and social institutions, only health institutions. In parallel with the transfer of these expenditures to the institutions' budgets, the hospital envelope was increased by 10 % to cover the annual increase in the cost of transport. You point out some difficulties that families feel when leaving. However, the rules governing the latter have not been changed. Whether they are motivated by medical or organisational reasons, they are covered by health insurance and do not remain in the care of families. Health facilities have the necessary budgets to do so. Transport is only billed to users in the absence of medical reasons: this is already the rule today, and there is no change on this point. Interim patient returns for a period of 48 hours, from Friday evening to Monday morning, are not considered as leave and are billed to health insurance, as was already the case. We remain very attentive to the implementation of this reform. A follow-up committee was held on 3 October with hospital federations and users. It will meet every two months and has already resulted in recommendations to health facilities. We will respond as we move through this committee to the questions that will be asked and the difficulties that will be felt.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u70	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u71	I hear what you're saying, but you're not answering in substance – on the evolution that this sector is facing, on the modalities for accompanying this development, on the fact that the future seems very bleak for these professionals. We will continue to pay attention to these paramedics who are present throughout the territory. Beyond the jobs at stake, it is a new way to damage the territories that to see these local professionals disappear tomorrow and to see them replaced by large groups. We will remain attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u72	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor to put her question, No 403, on the experimenting with the free employment scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u73	My intervention concerns the implementation of the second phase of testing of the free jobs scheme, which will be widespread in 2020. First of all, I would like to point out that during the first experimental phase, launched last April, 194 priority areas of city policy, located in seven territories, were able to benefit from the scheme. The aim is to encourage the recruitment of people who are discriminated against, whether social, geographical or ethnic, by sending a strong signal to businesses. Some of them find it difficult to recruit. They can count on the resources and talents of these neighbourhoods, but still have to give them a chance! Also, we can only welcome the decision of the Government, within the framework of the budget for 2019, to maintain its commitment to accompany any company to the tune of 5000 euros per year over three years for any hiring. Yes, the needs are real! In fact, in my constituency, the commune of Chenôve, which is a priority district of the Dijonnaise metropolis, has a high unemployment rate of around 30%. For several years, people have been confronted with the persistence of long-term unemployment and feel left out of the world of work. That is why I had forwarded to the Minister of Labour Chenôve's candidacy for experimentation in 2018. Taking into account the financial resources foreseen in the "Work and Employment" mission for 2019, and faced with a long-term high unemployment rate in many priority areas of city policy, are you planning to select other territories for a second experimental phase?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u74	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u75	The free employment scheme, which is one of the campaign commitments of the President of the Republic, is an innovative response to the barriers to employment faced by many residents of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy. It aims to address the inequalities in access to employment experienced by our fellow citizens living in these neighbourhoods. The measure was introduced by the Finance Act for 2018, in the form of a current experiment from April 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019. This experiment concerns 194 priority districts in seven territories: the Seine-Saint-Denis department in its entirety, the agglomerations of Roissy Pays de France and Cergy-Pontoise in the Val d'Oise, the territory Grand Paris Sud Seine-Essonne-Sénart, the agglomeration of Angers Loire Métropole, the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence and finally the European metropolis of Lille. These territories represent a representative sample, bringing together nearly a quarter of jobseekers in priority neighbourhoods. They are varied territories, which integrate into various economic fabrics with specific problems in terms of mobility, urban renewal or access to equipment. The scope of the experiment therefore allows us to assess the effects of frank jobs whatever the characteristics of the neighbourhood concerned. This is the point of using experimentation, which ensures the conditions for the effectiveness of a device and stabilizes its parameters. To this end, an evaluation of the experimental phase is planned, which will give rise to a report submitted to Parliament by 15 September 2019 at the latest, before deciding on a generalisation of the scheme at national level. The experiment takes place over a relatively short period of time and involves a sufficiently representative sample, so far it is not planned to extend it to new territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u76	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u77	Thank you for that answer. Many of us are impatient, but we will wait for the evaluation. Why so impatient? Because discrimination undermines national cohesion and gangrenes our society. There is an urgent need to act to restore hope to all those people who feel that they are now being banished from society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u78	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor to raise her question, No. 409 on contracting between the State and the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u79	I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the already observed effects of the financial contract between the State and the territorial authorities proposed by the Government at the national conference of the territories in December 2017, known as the "Cahors scheme". This contractual strategy has come to break with the unilateral decline in endowments. Thus, the signatory communities – including the department of Var, by deliberation of its council of 25 June 2018 –, in return for savings on their operating expenses, see their allocations stabilised over the period of the stability programme, from 2018 to 2022. If the growth of their operating expenses is limited to 1.2 per cent per year, communities may be offered a rate change by the Prefect to take local circumstances into account. The Court of Auditors' 2017 report on the financial situation and management of local and regional authorities and their public institutions suggests ways of refining the Cahors scheme. The Court notes that a very significant part of local expenditure remains outside the framework. The Commission considers that it would be desirable to include in the contract the ancillary budgets of the communities concerned. What about the autonomous budgets, such as the budgets of the departmental fire and rescue services – SDIS – since they constitute, in the eyes of the financial magistrates, a debudging corresponding to a dismemberment of the local administration? Indeed, if SIDS have legal personality and vote their own budget, they lack financial autonomy. From this point of view, the department of the Var, the most touristic department in France, which has suffered very large floods and which the SDIS has to deal with, throughout the year, with multiple demands, would be much more affected than others by such an extension of the system. While the evaluation of the contracts will take place in spring 2019, before the preparation of the draft finance law for 2020, and the evolution of the Cahors scheme requires an amendment of the law on the planning of public finances, how do you envisage the future prospects of the financial contracting between the state and the departments, and in particular the extension of the obligation to control operating expenses to all departmental public services, including fire and rescue services?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u80	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u81	You are right: contracts to control local spending are a major focus of the trust relationship that the Government wants to build with the communities. They have been the subject of broad consultation with elected associations and devolved State services. More than 70% of communities have chosen to contract with the state, like your department. This will require an in-depth evaluation. Comments and possible avenues of development have already been proposed, either by the Court of Auditors or by the associations of elected representatives. The Government is, of course, paying attention to this, through a follow-up committee that meets regularly with the latter. As regards evaluation, the contracts, covering the period 2018-2020, were signed at the end of the first half of 2018. The first phase of evaluation of results will therefore take place in spring 2019. The Government has chosen the stability of the system to enable it to be assessed calmly, once all the phases provided for by the law have taken place at least once. The Government will provide Parliament with a review of contracts prior to the public finance policy debate of the 2020 Finance Bill. Also know that a possible new phase of contracting for the post-2020 period will necessarily require legislation and will therefore be the subject of intense debate in Parliament. With regard specifically to SIDS budgets, I would like to point out that only the main budgets of the departments fall within the scope of contracts. Therefore, the supplementary budgets, as well as the budgets of public institutions such as SIDS, are excluded. The risks of debuggering referred to by the Court of Auditors can be nuanced: the main and supplementary budgets are not without any link, for example in the form of grants. In addition, the programming law provided for an enrichment of the budgetary policy debates, covering a wider scope than the main budget alone in order to have a consolidated view of expenditure. In addition, the Court of Auditors' recommendation to include the supplementary budgets in the contract offers important technical obstacles, beyond those you mentioned for the department of Var, related to the difficulty of neutralizing the cross-flows between the main and the annexes budgets. Work is under way to address this problem. Of course, the evolution of the so-called Cahors contracts will depend, in part, on these technical expertises, but above all on the ongoing consultation with elected associations and Parliament, as well as on feedback from the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u82	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to put her question, No. 419, on local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u83	At the end of the congress of mayors, what to say to our elected representatives, while a study, confirmed by the CEVIPOF – the political research centre of Sciences Po – shows that the resignations of mayors increased by 55% during the current term of office, this phenomenon affecting 75% of rural communes. It must be said that the NOTRE law and its perpetual race forward in the transfer of powers seems to eventually lead to the administrative disappearance of the communes for the benefit of the communities of communes, without this evolution being truly assumed and said. Local elected officials remain uncertain as a result of the new, not always relevant, redistributions over which they have little control over the major elected officials. They wonder about potentials and plural scenarii of new communes, according to the wishes of the sometimes moving neighbours. Town hall secretaries are asking for their transfer, worried about their position disappearing. The municipal councillors, mostly volunteers, wonder about their role, that they do not want to be summarized to "prepare sheaves for commemorations," as they say so well themselves. Many of them express their ill-being and uncertainty to represent themselves in 2020 for a mandate they have gradually seen reduced to grief and to a strictly social dimension of the commune. However, the small commune allows many citizens, from all political sides and from all walks of life, to work together, far from the divides, as close as possible to their territory, with a permanent concern for the proper use of public funds and a real, unselfish and demanding dedication. Minister, what future for the communes and mayors, elected politicians credited with the greatest confidence, to two years of the next elections?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u84	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u85	Thank you, Member, for your question on a subject that you know well for being yourself elected local and mayor of a commune. In this regard, I am not sure that we can talk about small communes. There are small municipalities, but all municipalities must be placed on an equal footing. I think you agree with me. You refer to the question of the commune as the basic unit of our democracy. Under no circumstances does the Government question this assumption. The President of the Republic reminded the mayors of France on 22 November: "We share the Republic". He referred to the crucial role of mayors and municipal councillors in the field. You stress the need to take into account the number of resignations of mayors or the willingness of some to do so: it is obviously a signal that must alert the Government. I would, however, like to relativise the figures you indicate, without minimizing their importance. It is true that the number of resignations between the previous mandate and it has increased. But we can explain it mechanically. First, the creation of the new communes since 2014, about 700 at this stage, causes by nature the disappearance of many mayors. It is in addition to the end of the cumulation of parliamentary mandates to explain some 1890 separations. Secondly, the number of deaths has, alas, increased, which, de facto, increases the number of resignations, even if the causes have nothing to do with it. Finally, some resignations result from personal reasons and political reasons internal to the municipal council. We will also have to study the effects of the level of the threshold at which a municipal proportional list must be built, and to draw any consequences: evaluations will have to be carried out. Finally, the resignations expressing the "blues" of local elected officials remain very minority, although this feeling expressed at the Congress of Mayors should not be underestimated. The Government intends to respond fully to the concerns of the local elected representatives that you echo, relying in particular on the very high-quality work led by the delegation to the territorial authorities of the Senate. This will require exploring ways of improving the conditions for the exercise of the mandate with regard to the social regime of local elected representatives, which will need to be clarified, supplemented and adapted. The conditions for reconciliation between mandate and working life and the question of the training of elected officials can also be improved to adapt to the new profile of local elected officials. The issue of the compensation system should be addressed in this context. I also hear the mayors' concern about the evolution of intercommunality. The President also recalled this in his speech, opening the way for adaptation measures to make the arrangements clearer and more legible within the territories. The Government is convinced that elected officials need stability: adjustments in governance and engineering must be possible. The Government will launch, within the framework of the national conference of the Territories, a working group on the subject of intercommunality, which is probably at the heart of the difficulties faced by the communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u86	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u87	Thank you for your response and for listening to the territories and elected representatives. I would like to point out that a mayor of my department, Saint-Pierre-sur-Erve, referred to the concept of "positive rurality". The elected representatives want to defend this positive rurality and I am here to echo their commitment. I would also like to pay tribute to the memory of a municipal councillor in my commune, who left us prematurely last week, and pay tribute to all the municipal councillors in all the communes of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u88	Mr. Laurent Garcia, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 420, concerning national projects for the urban renewal of neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u89	From the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has announced its strong commitment to support the implementation and financing of the city's policy and the new national urban renewal plan by adding methodological measures and additional funding to facilitate and accelerate the renovations of the neighbourhoods under way or under way. Thus, at the end of September 2018, the actors and stakeholders of urban renewal programmes in the various neighbourhoods of the city's policy welcomed the Ministry's announcements regarding the additional appropriations included in the 2019 finance bill, thus formalizing the road map drafted by the Government in July 2018. All noted this ambitious and unprecedented budgetary effort, affecting all ministries, in order to catalyse the frameworks for action on urban renewal. My question concerns the operational and practical implementation of these measures and their possible articulation with urban renewal projects that may already be very advanced or in the process of being committed between December 2018 and March 2019. Thus, in my own constituency, the promoters of the renovation project of a district of national interest have had to reduce their ambitions of public facilities for the development of a multidisciplinary school site, associations, reception of early childhood, activities peri and extracurricular, sports and cultural, which was to be born in an area of this district guaranteeing social mix. In the absence of a sufficient community budget for this project based on real needs, which requires the reconstruction of a school group, sports halls and fields, activity rooms, a library and facilities suitable for children in the day-care centre, as well as the reconfiguration of outdoor facilities allowing both physical, sporting and playful activities in a framework conducive to promenade and family activities, the project has been revised to reduce expenditure, by providing for the simple rehabilitation of certain sports facilities and by reducing ambition for early childhood care and family service. The orientations of the 2019 budget, as announced, allow the cards to be broken down by allowing new perspectives to be seen. Could you clarify, Minister, the forecast periods for the implementation of these new arrangements and financings after the vote on the 2019 finance bill, so that the actors in the field can know the eligibility criteria and can apply for the granting of these accompaniments to the renovation of the neighbourhoods? Is there an urgent need to wait a few months for project promoters who have already been formalised in the commitment committee or are in the process of being formalised in order to include all the measures and optimize what should be?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u90	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u91	Thank you for your question, honourable Member, on this subject which I know concerns you. The 2019 finance bill includes the budgetary translation of the President of the Republic's campaign commitment to double the appropriations for urban renewal to reach EUR 10 billion, in order to finance the new urban renewal programme led by the National Agency for Urban Renewal – ANRU. The aim is to improve in practice the living conditions of the inhabitants of the neighbourhoods which have the most important urban dysfunctions. As a result, 216 neighbourhoods of national interest and 264 neighbourhoods of regional interest have been identified under this new programme. For each of these neighbourhoods, the ANRU provides support to communities, institutions and private or public bodies that have decided to undertake major urban restructuring operations in line with the objectives of building, rehabilitating social housing, strengthening social mix and developing priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy. The simplification of the ANRU procedures at the request of the Government and the increase in appropriations have thus speeded up the implementation of the new programme. Agreements in 38 additional neighbourhoods, both national and regional, were validated in October, with a total of 132 neighbourhoods since the operational phase of the programme was launched. In total, almost €3 billion of ANRU's financial assistance has already been validated and made available to local authorities and social donors as part of this new project to launch their construction projects in metropolitan France and overseas. For most of them, comprehensive and comprehensive projects have been validated. For some, this is a significant first step to trigger rapid and positive dynamics. Finally, the doubling of the urban renewal envelope is accompanied by the return of the State to the funding of the ANRU, thanks to the contribution of EUR 1 billion over the duration of the programme, which ends in 2031. For 2019, the State contribution for the intervention appropriations will amount to 185 million in commitment authorisations and 25 million euros in payment appropriations. Housing Action and social donors are also involved in doubling the funding of the new programme, amounting to an additional €2 billion of grant equivalent for Housing Action and €2 billion for social donors via the Social Housing Guarantee Fund. These answers seem to me to satisfy you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u92	Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u93	As I understand it, communities can already seize the department. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u94	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to put his question, No 397, on the accommodation of people on the street.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u95	Minister responsible for relations with Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of people living on the street. In Île-de-France, the prefecture plans to create 5,800 additional accommodation places. These means will not be sufficient to respond to the urgency. Again this winter, most people threatened by the cold and exhaustion will not be able to benefit from the help of 115, whose teams are already overwhelmed. The reinforcements announced, both in terms of reception places and listening posts, seem derisory in terms of the number of children, women and men deprived of a roof. The geographical distribution of the additional beds announced also raises questions. The Seine-Saint-Denis department, which is particularly affected by the social emergency, will only benefit from 700 additional places. In Paris, it'll be four times as much. This imbalance, which I consider absurd, is not based on any reality on the ground, as shown by the statistics of calls to the departmental standard of 115 of the Seine-Saint-Denis managed by Interhousing 93. In 2017, more than 16,000 people wrote this number, but nearly 6,000 of them never received a favourable response. Worse, it is estimated that almost 80 per cent of the non-recourse to emergency accommodation in this department, whose state is not even able to determine the actual number of inhabitants. The reports are accumulating to warn about the lack of resources to which the Seine-Saint-Denis suffers. The Prime Minister himself has acknowledged that this department is focusing on challenges that need to be addressed urgently. It must be noted, however, that the announcements made by the Prefect of Île-de-France in response to the winter emergency do not go in this direction. Once again, the Seine-Saint-Denis needs more, but will receive less. It is neither charity nor an ideological a priori. It is simply a matter of respecting French law, as well as the major international conventions of which we are signatories and which have no other purpose but to preserve the rights of children, women and men. I therefore ask you why there are so few reception places this winter in Seine-Saint-Denis, when so many human lives are already at risk in the streets of this department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u96	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u97	Mr President, I thank you for drawing our attention to this obviously very important issue, which we all share and which is a cause for concern. I will start by reminding you, even if it is not a satisfecit, because the subject, which you have just described, is eminently complex, that no government has ever done so much to reduce the number of homeless people. The State finances and manages with the associations 136000 permanent places throughout the year. I repeat, this level of mobilization is historic, even if I hear what you say: this effort may not be enough. The budget for emergency accommodation will again increase in 2019. I should like to recall that the Government has maintained 5000 emergency accommodation places at the end of last winter, including 1900 in Île-de-France. For this winter, we prepared an action plan in advance, in conjunction with associations, government departments and communities. Julien Denormandie, Minister for City and Housing, met the associations twice, on 19 October and 23 November, to present this plan to them and to exchange with them. They will now meet every month. The winter campaign started a little over three weeks ago. The number of places mobilised and mobilised, almost half of which are in Île-de-France, already exceeds that of last year by almost 8,000. Social Watch funding, including 115 services, increased by more than 40% between 2016 and 2018. In 2019, more than 139 million will be spent on this project, an increase of 6% over 2018. As for the marauds, which are essential for reaching the most vulnerable, the Government has committed itself to strengthening them during the winter period but also throughout the year, because while the winter period is special, it is no less important to stay on standby during the other months. An additional EUR 5 million is foreseen in 2019, and the necessary steps have been taken to ensure that this increase is already effective. As regards the imbalance, on which you are particularly asking us, between Paris and the Seine-Saint-Denis, I can tell you that 728 additional places are mobilizable in Seine-Saint-Denis for the winter period, following a call for applications launched by the State services. This department, to which the Government gives its full attention, as you have recalled, is the second in terms of places mobilized in this context in Île-de-France, after Paris where a little more than 3000 places are mobilized. This figure must be linked to the number of requests expressed which, at the beginning of the winter, is far less important in Seine-Saint-Denis than in Paris. In addition, the Seine-Saint-Denis now concentrates more hotel stays for the family than Paris, with 5.7 places per 1000 inhabitants in Seine-Saint-Denis compared to 2.8 in Paris. The Government is therefore ensuring, as part of the Ile-de-France-wide action, that the provision of accommodation is not concentrated in departments already experiencing significant difficulties. I hope that we will join in this principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u98	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u99	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I know, and the associations have found it on the ground, that the number of places available has slightly increased, but you acknowledge, like all serious actors, that the demand is not being met. Despite the information you have given, the difference in resources that remains between the City of Paris and our department does not satisfy anyone on the ground. Let us agree that there is an urgent need to act on what everyone recognizes as a priority. The resources made available on the spot, even if they are on the increase, will not be enough to achieve the stated objective: the goal that next winter there are no children, no women or no men on the street in our country. A lot of evidence shows that the sad reality is only getting worse. We will therefore continue to question you. However, thank you for your answer. Whatever our convictions, there is something that affects us all: no one can tolerate that one of our fellowmen is in a terrible situation, at the risk of his life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u100	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No 422, on the Agency for the Vocational Training of Adults in Le Mans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u101	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Labour to the situation of the National Agency for Adult Vocational Training – AFPA – and in particular of its Le Mans centre. This public institution with public service missions trains 85,000 jobseekers each year at national level, with an employment integration rate estimated at almost 70%. This strong point is a consensus and has been highlighted by reports and expertise. The reorganization announced by the National Directorate consists of the abolition of posts. In the opinion of all trade unions and employee representatives, this decision does not support any overall strategy. The Agency currently employs nearly 6300 employees in CDI. It intends to abolish at the national level almost one quarter of the posts of its collaborators, i.e. 1541. It announced the closure of thirty-eight sites, thirteen main centres and twenty-five associated centres, de facto acknowledging the disappearance of AFPA in certain departments such as Sarthe: thirty-two out of forty-one posts would be abolished, i.e. more than three-quarters. In 2018, the Le Mans Centre provides thirty-one training courses and professional skills as well as a technical platform. Of course, the decline in orders in the Pays de la Loire region, by almost 80% in seven years, has considerably weakened its economic model, but at a time when the State reaffirms its commitment to vocational training which is open to all, including those who are furthest from employment, and which makes it a vehicle for integration for all, it is paradoxical that one can be satisfied with the disappearance of an important actor who works in sectors with skilled jobs such as logistics, construction and industry, and who has a network of partner companies on the spot. If the economic model is to evolve, the Le Mans site is an asset both in its experience and in its facilities and heritage. The challenge would be to sell, in order to balance the past, a site whose potential can be valued, without worrying about the opportunity this site represents for the future. The State has a responsibility to sustain a human and technical investment. I would therefore like to know the Government's intentions to preserve a relevant tool that can meet the needs of all in various sectors, as is the case with the centre of Le Mans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u102	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u103	Madam Member, the AFPA has indeed committed itself for a month to a draft reorganization plan, which is subject to consultation with staff representatives. Out of respect for the ongoing social dialogue, both in Le Mans and in the other sites concerned, I will not reply to you about the situation of a particular centre, but about the meaning of this reorganization, because that is what it is all about. As you said, the AFPA's share of regional vocational training markets has collapsed. This is particularly true in the Pays de la Loire, where, since 2012, the Agency has seen its turnover with the region fall by almost 82%. If the employees of these training centres are not responsible for this, it is nevertheless a sad record, while the training market has returned to growth. The AFPA could not or could not take advantage of it for lack of, let's say, responsible and forward-thinking leaders at the time, which would have allowed a reorganization. The overall strategy at stake is therefore that of a historical agency of the public employment service which must reinvent its model and its type of organization. The status quo is unthinkable, with 723 million euros of accumulated losses since 2012 and a prospect of operating loss of more than 70 million for this year. However, the AFPA will continue to be present – that is the objective of these reorganisations – throughout the national territory, particularly for the benefit of those furthest from employment. But it must first adapt its offer to the new needs of assets, businesses and territories. As you have pointed out, the responsibility of the state is well to be with the AFPA to succeed in its transformation, to reinvent its economic model and to continue to work in the service of training in the territories. But let us be clear: the State will do so in accordance with its competences, without replacing the actors in public and private vocational training. It will also ensure that no person whose workplace would be impacted by the reorganization plan is left with no solution at the end of this process. The Minister of Labour will be personally attentive to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u104	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u105	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that, out of respect for the various partners, the State cannot intervene. Nevertheless, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the departments of Sarthe, Mayenne and Maine-et-Loire are being abolished. A whole territory at the entrance of the Pays de la Loire is thus unoffered by the AFPA. This is a point that must be considered in negotiating with these centres in order to correct the shooting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u106	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor to put his question, No. 414, on public services in Indre.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u107	Mr Minister responsible for relations with Parliament, who will probably answer me in the absence of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, I would like to ask you about the state of public services and spatial planning in the Department of Indre, which we can learn from overall lessons. In recent months, over the last few weeks, we have learned the closure, without any real consultation, I have had the opportunity to say it publicly, and while the local elected officials feel that they have been wandered, from the maternity of the White Hospital. Of course we learned about the closure of classes in many rural schools, but also that of the two training centres of the AFPA de l'Indre, in Châteauroux and in Issoudun, and that of several post offices in the outlying areas of Châteauroux, and saw yesterday, with a change of schedule again rather negative, the threat on the railway services at the railway stations of Argenton-sur-Creuse and Issoudun. The Government has often said, and has recently repeated, that it wants to reconnect with local and regional authorities and turn to the territories. It's more than time! But there is no love without proof of love. We need to give us this evidence. Today, local authorities, all local elected representatives and the inhabitants of Indre – as probably in many other rural or predominantly rural departments – need their difficulties to be taken into account in a concrete and effective way. We cannot undress these territories permanently, which, I agree, is not the date of the present government, nor can we continue to concentrate the population in the metropolises, continuing a permanent movement in our country. There is a need to reverse the logic of spatial planning and to win back the territories. But to do that, we have to keep them a little bit of money. As you know, Minister, these territories have a real economic and social dynamic. There are innovation, start-ups, creativity and job creation, as well as a real quality of life. It is therefore necessary to reverse this negative logic of concentration upwards, starting by preserving the services, instead of letting them go one after the other. I hope you will relay my question to Mrs Gourault, Minister. I would like to know what the Government is going to do on these specific points in the Indre Department. More broadly, I would ask you to learn from this specific case, in terms of the strategy of occupation of the territory. I would like to cite one last example, which is not unrelated to the mobility policy bill, which was introduced yesterday in the Council of Ministers. With the defence committee of the SNCF train station in Argenton-sur-Creuse, we want to send a message of common sense and ask that the Paris-Limoges train of 7 p.m.41 – to be very precise – stop there, if only two minutes. This would allow the 50,000 to 60,000 people in this living pool to go to work in Paris during the day and come back late enough for the evening to have had a real working day. We can't get an answer; We are not received, not even by the senior officials who govern this country. I would like to draw your attention to this, because we want concrete proofs of love.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u108	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u109	Thank you for your question, Mr. Forissier. I know the attachment you have to the territories – especially, but not only, to Indre – and your knowledge of these subjects. As you have said with the intellectual honesty that characterizes you, the current situation is the result of a policy that has been going on for many years. What you describe about Indre could be observed in a number of other departments. It is up to the State, together with local authorities and parliamentarians, to respond to the despair in these territories. Access to public services in all Territories is a priority for the Government. I would like to remind you of the concrete actions that are already being implemented, while being aware that they sometimes take place over a long period of time, which may explain some impatience. I would like to respond specifically to your concerns about Indre. As you know, White's maternity has been closed for reasons of patient safety, given the insufficient number of births to ensure a satisfactory quality of care. The site of the White Hospital is neither closed nor condemned; It will be transformed into a perinatal centre, which will be able to meet part of the requirements of proximity and safety. These points were recalled by Christelle Dubos, Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, during her visit to Orléans on November 19. Dialogue remains open, to find the most appropriate solutions, with the deconcentrated services of the State, the local elected representatives and the citizen collective that formed around this maternity. For schools in rural areas, 400 additional posts will be created in two years in the 45 least dense departments. In your department, regular exchanges are conducted with elected officials to adapt the school map to demographic changes. In my view – I believe that we share this view – demographics play an essential role in this area, and it is an issue on which we must work. To the extent possible, classes are maintained: for example, eight classes likely to be closed were maintained at the start of 2018. And schemes, such as rural conventions, make it possible to adapt the school fabric to the needs of rural areas. With regard to rail services, and in particular to Argenton-sur-Creuse and Issoudun, of which you have spoken, there is a process of reflection between the State, the communities and the SNCF in order to best meet the needs of the users. I'm not going to repeat what I said earlier about the AFPA. It is also because of the lack of reforms that we find ourselves in this situation. We'll have to go with the sites. Mobility solutions are being explored to ensure that training is provided in areas where the AFPA centre may have disappeared. More broadly, since you have been talking to me about love and evidence of love, the Government has been mobilizing for 18 months, with more than 6 billion euros invested in mobile and digital coverage – and God knows that in this department, it is an issue...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u110	Please close, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u111	...and support for service homes to the public. I could also mention the measures of reindustrialization, which will enable the territories to get out of the rut in which they are located.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u112	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u113	Thank you, Minister. I will make two remarks. Firstly, with regard to train stops, I think there is an urgent need. We expect concrete evidence of love, starting with appointments, especially with Ms. Jacqueline Gourault. I insist that we have not received any response, including from the senior public service, which is in charge of the matter. Secondly, I would like to refer to a dossier which has not been discussed: the provisional closure of the slaughterhouse in La Châtre, for reasons on which I do not come back. Here too, we need state support. However, local elected officials are more or less alone. We need state support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u114	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u115	I will be attentive to the actions that you will take; for the time being, we remain a little on our hunger.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u116	I call Mrs Françoise Dumas to speak on Question No 407 by Mr Christophe Lejeune, concerning Air Force Base 116 in Luxeuil-Saint-Sauveur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u117	I am asking this question on behalf of our colleague Christophe Lejeune, who is unfortunately held by the funeral of a person close to him. Madam Minister of the Armed Forces, Air Base 116 of Luxeuil-Saint-Sauveur, in the second riding of Haute-Saône, is at the heart of the operational activity of the Air Force. It plays an essential role in ensuring the implementation of all our permanent missions. While the military programming law 2019-2025 provides for the modernization of the two components of French deterrence, it is necessary to recall that the airbase 116 is capable of hosting and ensuring the activity, as it has proven in the past, of the aircraft of the airborne component of nuclear deterrence, in order to defend the vital interests of the nation. In addition, within it, the hunting group "Les Cigognes", permanently carries out the mission of police from the sky, ready to take off at any time. In this time of commemoration of the Great War, I would like to recall the historical heritage of BA 116. The squadron of the Cigognes, before its arrival in Luxeuil, welcomed the greatest aces of the First World War. Eastern France, which has been marked by the country's greatest battles, has cultivated the memory of major conflicts and is, through its history, more open to military culture. It is for this reason that the BA 116 of Luxeuil-Saint-Sauveur is perfectly integrated into the territory and that the local population is in favour of its activity. Even more so, this air base is a real spatial planning issue for the Haute-Saône. The first employer in the second riding, the base fully participates in the activity of the life pool. The restructuring at work by the Ministry of Armed Forces, in particular linked to the forthcoming delivery of new Rafale to different air bases, must not forget these elements, the legacy left by the Great War, or all the conflicts that are an integral part of our country's history. Madam Minister, how will the specifics of the Haute-Saône territory and the Air Force Base 116 in Luxeuil be taken into account in the new organisation of the Air Force?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u118	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u119	Mrs Lejeune, on behalf of Christophe Lejeune, you are asking me about Air Force Base 116. I would like to join you very much in saying that it is perfectly integrated into the territory of Luxeuil and its population. As you also said, Air Base 116 in Luxeuil-Saint-Sauveur participates in the protection function of our defence. The Mirage 2000 of the hunting group "Les Cigognes" keep the alert daily on the national territory in order to ensure the permanent posture of aviation security. But they also contribute to the intervention function. They were deployed last April, during strikes on chemical sites in Syria. In addition to this air superiority capability, Air Base 116 maintains some strategic facilities, inherited from its nuclear base past. This site has undergone significant restructuring, in particular with the military programming law 2009-2014. The new military programming law 2019-2025, which Parliament passed last summer, provides for the continued operation of the Mirage 2000-5 fleet until 2030, taking into account the Rafale's delivery schedule to the Air Force. During this period, Air Base 116 is likely to accommodate renovated capabilities. Studies are also under way in the context of the stabilization of the military parking plan. At this stage, apart from the Mont-de-Marsan and Saint-Dizier bases, I have not yet made any decision as to where the future Rafale will be parked. I naturally understand your vigilance and then assure you that my teams will keep you informed when the reflections have advanced on this particular point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u120	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u121	Thank you, Minister. I will pass this on to my colleague Christophe Lejeune, who is particularly involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u122	Mrs Françoise Dumas, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 411, concerning the sale of military aircraft.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u123	My question, Minister of the Armed Forces, too, relates to the link between our armed forces and our territories, the important role they play, both in economic and strategic terms. You have embarked on an ambitious reform of the maintenance of ground and aeronautical operational conditions, which is a major challenge, as it will contribute to strengthening the operational performance of our armed forces. In the context of rationalising public expenditure and optimising the operation of government equipment, specialized companies are responding to the need for outsourcing of certain training services. However, the activity of these companies is constrained by the unavailability of fast aircraft on French territory. This poses a problem because these companies improve the performance of our armies and accompany them in the design of innovative military manoeuvres. In addition, this form of partnership helps to preserve the potential of military aircraft in service and allows operational capabilities to be refocused on their primary missions. For example, the company SDTS – Secapem Defence Training Solutions –, established in the Nîmes business pool, under contract with the National Navy and the Directorate General of Armaments – DGA – can simulate, thanks to its aircraft, certain forms of threats and help its customers to improve their methods of intervention. Today, it is unable to acquire all the equipment that would enable it to honour its contractual commitments. The availability of reformed military aircraft is therefore an essential vehicle for the economic development of these structures. The provision or sale to a French company of aircraft equipped with DGA weapons with the required characteristics could be appropriate solutions to meet the needs of these companies. In this regard, Madam Minister, could you clarify to what extent the state will accompany French companies that contribute to the preservation of our military know-how?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u124	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u125	Madam Member, thank you for highlighting the role of these companies. I think you have already had the opportunity to question me on this subject, but I am very happy to answer you. These French companies are in fact intended to operate fast aircraft to enable the completion of the entire service contracts for the benefit of the Ministry of the Armed Forces. As far as they are concerned, the Mirage 2000 N – which were, as you know, completely withdrawn from service in the summer of 2018 – are the subject of a number of levies intended for the maintenance in operational condition – MCO – of the other types of Mirage 2000 still in service, i.e. still used or deployed by our armed forces. You will therefore understand that they cannot be made available, for the moment, to an operator wishing to fly them, because priority is given to the operational readiness of the other Mirage type 2000, rather than to the realization of services. However, work has been initiated between the French civil and military authorities to adapt the regulatory framework to an adequate coverage of the service activities of companies such as the one in your constituency. This work will have to be carried out in accordance with the general philosophy of the reform of the aviation MCO, initiated a year ago, which I thank you for mentioning. Thanks to the new direction of aviation maintenance and simplified governance, responsibilities in the field of maintenance in operational condition are no longer diluted, but meet an end-to-end logic. In the long term, MCO contracts will be negotiated and notified over longer periods, with a single industrial contractor, paid according to the achievement of the objectives set. If I were to summarize these objectives in one sentence, I would say to you: "It has to fly! "
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u126	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u127	Thank you, Minister, for answering my questions. It is necessary to anticipate certain developments but also to consider, in the very short term, the possibility of continuing to use these aircraft.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u128	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to raise her question, No. 427, concerning the departmental councils of ONAC.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u129	Minister of the Armed Forces, my question relates to the composition of the departmental councils for veterans and victims of war and national memory. As we know, the missions of recognition, reparation, solidarity and memory of the National Office of Veterans and War Victims are paramount, and the presence of ONAC in the territories, through its outreach services, is equally important. The departmental councils of ONACVG are chaired by the prefects of the department and also composed of veterans and representatives of the associations of memory in the life of the city. They are required to deal with applications for solidarity aid, projects relating to memory policy, the award of cards and titles, and applications for the award of flag-holders' honour degrees. However, the constitution of these departmental councils for veterans, war victims and the memory of the nation is becoming difficult, as veterans are either very aging or still active for the new generation of fire. In view of the tasks of general interest carried out by these departmental councils and the interest of being able to involve these new generations of veterans, who are engaged in a professional activity, it would seem appropriate to provide, in the image of what exists for local elected officials or trade union representatives, for the establishment of leave or credits of hours for the benefit of the departmental services of ONACVG, in order to encourage them to participate and become involved in this duty of memory. So, Madam Minister, what is your vision for the future of these departmental councils? Above all, what solutions could you propose to ensure their renewal and to involve new generations of fire more closely?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u130	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u131	First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute, on my behalf and on behalf of Geneviève Darrieussecq, to the work of the National Veterans Office. In each department, its staff provide high-quality service to all war veterans and victims, who are particularly attached to these outreach outlets. You are right, Member, we must ensure that the fourth generation of fire is better represented and more invested in the departmental councils of the ONACVG. This concern is all the more significant as the renewal of these departmental councils is scheduled in the course of 2019. These difficulties, as you have pointed out, are due as much to the demography of the old generations of fire as to the professional constraints of the new generation of fighters. If local elected officials have been granted leave of absence from work to prepare and attend meetings since the Act of 3 February 1992 on the conditions for the exercise of local mandates, it should be recalled that this entitlement varies according to the size of the municipality and depending on whether the elected member is president or vice-president of the assembly or merely councillor. Your proposal to put in place a similar arrangement for the benefit of the advisers of the departmental offices of ONACVG cannot, however, be accepted. They are not local elected officials, but experts or representatives of the citizens of the Office, who are appointed on the basis of voluntary service. On the other hand, as you have pointed out, it is up to employers and local unit commanders, for the combatants still in operation, to judge the appropriateness of granting leave of absence to their personnel to carry out this mission. I am aware that this refers to the goodwill of a number of actors, but, as legislation currently stands, it is very difficult to do otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u132	Mrs Sabine Thillaye has the floor to put her question, No 404, on employment on the Fondettes site.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u133	Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance on October 23, Sweden's Sandvik Group announced the complete closure of its Fondettes en Indre-et-Loire site, threatening 161 jobs. This unexpected and brutal decision is all the more regrettable given that the Fondettes site has real assets and that the Sandvik group has high results. The site's staff are highly qualified, and the activities, diversified in the automotive and aeronautics sectors, demonstrate resilience and adaptability. Above all, the Fondettes site works in close cooperation with the Centre for Study and Research on Cutting Tools, CEROC. In recent years, this research centre has benefited from significant public investment of more than €3.3 million. It would be a shame if this public money invested were wasted by a unilateral decision of a financially healthy company. The future of the Sandvik plant, Secretary of State, is not just about the city of Fondettes. Through this site, it is a whole dynamic and innovative departmental ecosystem that is challenged. On 30 October, a working meeting was held at the Ministry of Economy and Finance, whose agenda was the search for reliable buyers and the negotiation of employment protection plans. At this stage, several scenarios are still possible, and the situation can change. Mr Secretary of State, what concrete solutions can the State propose in order to meet the dual objective of ensuring an employment perspective for employees and of sustaining this industrial site? This site is important for Indre-et-Loire, while the department is already heavily affected by two corporate restructurings, Michelin's in 2014 and Tupperware's in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u134	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u135	On October 23, the Sandvik Group announced its intention to close the Fondettes site. It therefore launched an economic safeguard plan, which covered 130 employees of the production plant and the 16 employees of the research and development centre. A transfer to the Orléans site will be offered to 14 people from this centre. The Government is following this issue with great attention. My colleague Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, and Mr Jean-Pierre Floris, interdepartmental delegate for corporate restructuring, met with many elected representatives of the territory, as well as staff representatives, on Tuesday, October 30, 2018, to discuss the situation of this site in Fonettes and to study all possible measures to allow the recovery. You are right, the staff of this factory, which produces very high-tech machining tools, has a particularly high and rare level of qualification. Therefore, all the efforts of our services, in close association with those of the local authorities, are concentrated on the search for a solid owner, capable of valuing these skills. While it is not the Government's responsibility to impede the reorganization of the Sandvik Group, it is the Government's responsibility to ensure that a group of this size, with a turnover of €8.5 billion in 2017, makes every effort to carry out an active search for a sponsor. The group has informed us that it has commissioned a specialized consulting firm, and we want it to take the time it takes to have a chance of success. This is what the departments of the Ministry of Economy and Finance expressed very strongly to the leaders when they were received in Bercy after announcing the closure of the Fondettes site. It has already been obtained from Sandvik that the group establish and disseminate to all potential buyers a list of industrial equipment that could remain on site, thereby enhancing the attractiveness of a recovery solution. As you explained, there is on this site a factory, staff and equipment of very high quality, but the use is very specific. It is important to find this specific owner, who will be able to value them in the territory and maintain the skills there. That is the whole purpose of our commitment. I will go into the details of the measures in my answer to the following question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u136	Mrs Sabine Thillaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u137	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. The problem is that the firm responsible for identifying potential buyers sent 226 letters and received only 10 replies, all of which were negative. Employees are therefore very worried. They have a somewhat special profile, since 70% of them are highly skilled workers, but have a degree level of less than or equal to the baccalaureate, and a very high average age, which is around 50 years old. They are very unmovable, and we must mobilize for them, especially since the department of Indre-et-Loire has already undergone major corporate restructuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u138	Mr Vigier has the floor to put his question, No. 418, on the Sandvik company.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u139	My question echoes that of the colleague who has just spoken. I am an elected member of the Centre-Val de Loire region, Member of Parliament for Eure-et-Loir, but very aware by the elected representatives, notably the president of the association of the mayors of Indre-et-Loire, Cédric de Oliveira, by the situation of the site of Fondettes, especially since I had to deplore two terrible economic sinisters in my department, Flextronics in Châteaudun and Ethic in Auneau. Sandvik's turnover reached almost €9 billion and increased by 16% in 2017 alone. The company benefits from support tools, including the research tax credit. It has a competitive production site and a research centre, but it announces their closure. We can't let that happen! Of course, there can be no obstacle to the freedom of running a business. On the other hand, as soon as financial support schemes are deployed by the State, you must act. And you have in your hands, Secretary of State, an important instrument, that of revitalization plans. It is not enough to settle for a firm that often charges high fees, as sending 200 or 300 letters is not enough. Above all, we must not let the productive tool be dismantled. We can't say we'll take this or that asset, and then we'll see. We ask you to hear the distress of this territory. In this region, massive deindustrialisation has hit many places. In addition, we are particularly efficient and cost-effective in the technology deployed on this site. As you were doing right now, it should be stressed that the skills of the staff are not available for relocation. Orléans is more than 120 kilometres away from Fondettes: with what means of transport will employees move? And we are going back to the debate that is currently taking place outside this House. The transfer of personnel to Orléans is not a lasting solution. We really ask that, together with Bruno Le Maire, you revisit the company's management. A solution has to be found, with a buyer having to take over the entire site. The State has a financial leverage, which, as you know very well, can be coercive for the company as part of the revitalization plan, and which it must use and abuse. Finally, the closure of such a beautiful business in a small town like Fondettes, located east of Tours, would lead to a terrible loss of economic and social substance, having an impact on shops, schools and daily life. I thank you for responding to these people, to these workers and to the unions that are in the throes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u140	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u141	As I said in response to Ms. Thillaye's question, the Government is fully mobilized for the future of the Fondettes site, and I will provide you with the elements week after week. Last week, Jean-Pierre Floris, interdepartmental delegate for corporate restructuring, asked one of Sandvik Machining Solutions' world leaders, a division owned by Sandvik Coromant, to commit to actively and extensively seeking a sponsor. This long time, which I was talking about earlier, is the result of the fact that the Florange law on the current state of the market for industrial recovery presided over. We cannot find a winner of the level we want in a few weeks, or even in a few months. It'll take time. In order to do this, the company must commit itself not to dismantle and actively seek a buyer. You are right to say that it is not the sending of 200 letters that is sufficient to prove the reality of the search. We ask for much more, and the interdepartmental delegate and the department's services are in active and weekly contact with the company to ensure this commitment. As you said earlier, it is imperative to commit for several reasons. Territorial vitality is an essential element. In addition, significant public investment has been made by the region, the metropolis, the University of Tours and the State more generally, to offer many advantages to the company. For example, high funding was provided, including for the establishment of CEROC. This R&amp;D laboratory was to become an avant-garde example of public-private partnership, and to give this territory and economic location an industrial capacity for years to come. Our priority is to maintain the expertise of industry and research personnel, in which we so believed that we all participated in its funding. This is why maintaining activity is now in the national and territorial interest. That's the commitment of the Minister of Economy and the message he asked me to convey to you. This issue will remain a priority for us and we will continue to discuss it in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u142	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u143	Mr Secretary of State, from experience, I suggest two ways: it is today, and not in two or four years, that we must discuss the price of the sale of the site; It is also appropriate to require reimbursement of the aid, in particular the research tax credit. The region and the metropolis of Tours will make the request because it is not acceptable that a company which has thus benefited from a contribution of fresh money will not then comply with its objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u144	The next speaker is Claire Guion-Firmin, who has raised her question, No. 415, on statistics in the overseas community of Saint-Martin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u145	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the need and urgency for the overseas community of Saint-Martin to benefit from high-quality statistical coverage as soon as possible. You are aware that Saint-Martin, which became an overseas community in 2007, left the INSEE – Institut national de la statistique et des études économiques – on 1 January 2008, even though no provision, community or national, implies such exclusion from this territory of the French Republic. Also, essential data such as the price index, foreign trade figures, illiteracy, infant mortality or poverty rates are not known in Saint-Martin, and because of the lack of an INSEE branch, the territory has been in a blind corner of public policies for more than ten years. You know the situation in Saint-Martin: ravaged on September 6, 2017 by the passing of Hurricane Irma, the territory is in the midst of reconstruction – a huge and costly construction project, which will take years. The absence of a statistical tool makes the analysis of the economic, demographic, social, environmental and health situation of Saint-Martin even more complex. The improvement of this tool is all the more essential as the European Union requires annual statistics in the framework of operational programmes – OPs. As you know, this lack of statistics still does not allow the ultraperipheral region – RUP – of Saint-Martin to obtain, in the nomenclature of territorial statistical units, the qualification of NUTS 2 region. This situation, which prevents Saint-Martin from becoming the managing authority of European funds for the period 2014-2020, risks reoccurring for OPs 2021-2027. In this context, we can no longer be content with irregular and incomplete CEROM surveys – Rapid economic accounts for the overseas countries and territories. My question is therefore: Is the creation of an INSEE branch in Saint-Martin or, at least, the reinforcement of the INSEE Guadeloupe workforce, with arrow missions and agents dedicated to Saint-Martin, planned by the Government?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u146	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u147	Member, the entire department is aware of the need for quality data in all Overseas Territories. Where it is responsible for the production of statistics, INSEE already devotes much more resources, proportional to the number of inhabitants, than to any metropolitan territory. The mission of the General Inspectorate of Finance, in early 2018, after the passing of cyclone Irma, analysed the situation of Saint-Martin in terms of statistics. Saint-Martin has not been outside the scope of public statistics: for example, it is the only overseas community to be surveyed annually by INSEE. This is the main source of information, at the geographical level – in metropolitan France and the overseas departments – on the population, the labour market, housing conditions and travel. In December 2016, INSEE produced, among other things, a detailed summary of the economic situation of the community of Saint-Martin, entitled "Saint-Martin, Terre d'accueil et de contrastes"; Again, it is the only community to receive such attention from INSEE. In addition, an estimate of Saint-Martin's GDP is made approximately every five years, with the latest publication this year. Five years may seem long and there are, of course, margins of progress. INSEE proposes that priority be given to expert work to determine whether the available sources of information would permit a robust annual determination of Saint-Martin's GDP, with a possible interpretation of the variations observed. However, the subject is complex, because today the weakness, both quantitative and qualitative, of the data does not guarantee this annual publication. With regard to the consumer price index, the organisation implemented in Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon and Wallis-et-Futuna should be studied for Saint-Martin: it relies on a local price observatory, under the responsibility of the prefecture's departments and possibly the support of a territorial statistical institute set up by the community, to form a price index adapted to local constraints and needs. If necessary, INSEE undertakes to provide methodological support for the production of these statistics. Moreover, the community of Saint-Martin has local branches of the USSRAF, of Pôle Emploi, of the Caisse nationale des allocations familiales, of public finances, of customs or of the regional health agency – all of which, in addition to their services to the population, are also producing numerous data and information useful to the knowledge of the territory and to the conduct of public policies. On the other hand, there are no plans to open an INSEE antenna in Saint-Martin; There is no such thing as an overseas community. The resources allocated to the Interregional Caribbean-Guyane Directorate of INSEE, which takes care of Saint-Martin, are well sized, in compliance with the frameworks resulting from the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u148	I call Mr Emmanuel Maquet to speak on his question No 417 on the opening of the game hunt, which is addressed to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u149	My question is to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. Secretary of State, on 15 February 2018, the President of the Republic had personally pledged to the hunters to provide for a derogation which would finally make it possible to hunt ash geese in February 2019. This measure is much expected in the world of hunting, especially in the Bay of Somme, and would meet the legitimate demands of hunters. For the time being, this commitment remains at a theoretical stage. The constant jurisprudence of the Council of State could run counter to such a derogation from European Directive 79/409, which requires France to maintain a date for the closure of the geese hunt not later than 31 January. The draft law on the abolition of overtranspositions of European directives into French law seems to envisage only specific easing. Hunters, field ecologists, essential links in the regulation of species and the maintenance of wetlands, need to be reassured as to the precise modalities for the implementation of this promise. My question is therefore: by what legal means will the opening of the ash goose hunt be made possible in 2019 until the end of February?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u150	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u151	Mr President, you have asked Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition; As he could not be present, he asked me to answer you. The question you ask is precise and technical. The Government and the President of the Republic had made commitments in that regard; I will also be very specific in my answer. The President of the Republic had undertaken to consider a request for an exemption to collect geese in February 2019, stating that, at the same time, he wished to put in place adaptive management of certain species to determine the sampling according to the actual conservation status of the species. The overall population of ash geese in Europe increased from about 30,000 in the mid-1960s to over 700000 in 2012, with an ever-increasing trajectory. At the same time, in the period 2007-2015, the annual cost of compensation for damage caused by ash geese in the Netherlands increased from 2 million to more than 6 million euros. This continued growth of the ash geese population coupled with a very significant increase in damage to their migration area led French hunters to ask for the possibility of hunting geese in February for several years. Scientific studies, supported by a 2014 report by the National Office for Hunting and Wildlife, confirm that the ash goose migration begins around January 20th. The regulation, which is based on European directives, requires that migratory birds cannot be hunted when they return to their nesting sites. The repeated request of hunters to hunt geese in February was repeatedly rejected by the Council of State. This contentious situation led the French hunters to request in 2016 the establishment of a management plan at the level of the migration route of the species, proposing to all the countries concerned to participate in this reflection. The adoption of this international management plan is on the agenda of the meeting of the Parties to the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds – AEWA – to be held at the end of 2018. This plan aims to maintain the good conservation status of the ash goose while reducing conflicts with agriculture and damage to privy ecosystems, which affect all countries through this migratory route. This plan is a new element which could lead not to set a new date for the closure of the ash goose hunt, for the reasons of the previous case-law, but to consider a request for derogation from the grounds laid down in Article 9 of the Birds Directive. It is in this context that hunters work to develop an exemption application to be able to hunt geese in February 2019, under strictly controlled conditions. This application will be reviewed at a forthcoming National Wildlife and Hunting Council. The State will therefore consider this request within the strict framework of the adaptive management approach that will be in place by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u152	Mr Emmanuel Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u153	I hear these technical arguments, but the question is whether this hunt will be possible in February 2019. You tell me that it is very likely that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u154	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u155	To sum up, processes still underway by the end of 2018 invite us to think that we will be able to address this issue at the next National Wildlife and Hunting Council. If all the technical elements are combined, it will be possible to allow the hunt as early as February 2019; But you're right, the answer is very technical because it's for technical reasons that it's been refused over the last six years. It was therefore necessary to find another way of dealing with the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u156	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor to put his question, No 413 on traffic difficulties on the A35 motorway.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u157	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. Mr Secretary of State, since 2005, the Germans have introduced the LKW-Maut tax, which for several years has led to a transfer of the flows of trucks and heavy goods vehicles from Germany to France. Today, the situation is becoming critical, this wall of heavy goods vehicles that crosses Alsace for free – while they have to pay in Germany – causing daily accidents, sometimes fatal. We have repeatedly alerted the Government; the eco-tax was intended to address this problem under the energy transition law, but the measure was abandoned. I have just learned that the heavyweight sticker will not be introduced either; This serious problem remains, despite the good decision of the Prefect of the Haut-Rhin which prohibited the overtaking of the heavy goods vehicles between Colmar and Mulhouse. The Government should enter into an agreement with the German operator Toll Collect to extend the mechanism in force in Germany to the two departments of the Rhine, in order to collect the tax on behalf of the French authorities or the French State. It is the simplest, most affordable and technically easy solution. I would like to know the position of the Government on this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u158	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u159	Mr President, you are calling Mrs Élisabeth Borne's attention to the traffic of heavy goods vehicles in Alsace; cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. The Government shares the observation that the postponement of transit traffic on the Alsatian motorway A35 is difficult, particularly in the crossing of Strasbourg. Also, in consultation with the Alsatian elected officials, in 2016 the Government awarded the concession contract for the motorway of the western bypass of Strasbourg. The construction of this infrastructure will eventually transform the A35 motorway, which is now crossing the Eurometropole of Strasbourg, into an urban road. A project to requalify this motorway across Strasbourg is thus included in the State-region plan contract for an amount of 20 million euros. On the other hand, more specific reflections are under way on the organization of Alsatian institutions. It is very important to leave to the dialogue with the elected representatives of Alsace all its place to define together the solutions best suited to the challenges of the traffic of heavy goods vehicles on the A35 that you have just described. Parliament will of course be seized of the solutions which can accompany the creation of this European community in Alsace. With regard to safety on the A35 and A36, this is a question that needs to be answered today: four accidents involving heavy goods vehicles occurred on 10 and 11 October. The Ministry understands the concerns expressed locally and that is why the State has already launched an operation to develop customs platforms in southern Alsace, in Saint-Louis on the A35 and in Ottmarsheim on the A36. They will help to reduce congestion and improve the safety of motorway users, avoiding the parking of heavy goods vehicles on the emergency stop band, which is now an established practice. In addition, the Prefect of Haut-Rhin issued an order to partially prohibit the movement of dangerous goods on the A35 in the north-south direction, which was also a source of concern for elected officials. A special measure prohibiting doubling has also been taken in certain areas of the A35, particularly in the crossing of Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u160	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u161	I thank you for sending Mrs Borne my proposal or, at the very least, for contacting the German operator to see how this can work technically, so that we can be at the point when we take the necessary political decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u162	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to raise her question, No. 423, concerning the setting up of two lanes of the RN124.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u163	Mrs Borne is aware of our concerns about the progress of the development of the national road 124 in the Gers. The completion of double-tracking becomes an urgent operation because of the increase in traffic and the precariousness of temporary installations. The development programme includes the diversion of Gimont and the development of the Gimont-L'Isle-Jourdain section for a total of 160 million euros. The work of the deviation is almost at a standstill. The appropriations for the commitment of the earth-moving market could not be included in the 2018 programming. The construction of the section between Gimont and L'Isle-Jourdain is planned in the continuity of those of the diversion. The Government should commit itself to the appropriations that will be allocated to the development work for 2019, in order to guarantee the commissioning of the Gimont diversion in 2021. In September, he announced the mobilization of an envelope over the period 2018-2022 for the benefit of the transports and mobilitys of the daily, with the aim of accelerating the de-enclavement of the rural territories. The twin-tracking of the RN124 is part of this ambition. It allows daily travel for 13,000 vehicles accounted for – 13,000 users going to work, going to study or get medical treatment in Toulouse. In the wake of the anxieties currently expressed, the Gersois are waiting for a two-fold full-track set-up, well before 2030. Programme 203 of the annual performance projects mentions RN124 in the table of the main operations under construction or likely to be launched in 2019. So what about the credits for the RN124 in 2019? What about those planned for the second section?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u164	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u165	Madam Member, you are calling Mrs Elisabeth Borne's attention to the 2019 budget programming of the two-track roll-out of the RN 124 in the Gers department. She couldn't be there, so she asked me to answer you. Concern was shared, as the Government was fully aware of the need to continue the investments in order to finalize, within a reasonable time, the rapid liaison between Auch and Toulouse. The remaining section is located between Gimont and L'Isle-Jourdain and is broken down into two sections and is the subject of two separate operations. I will therefore reply to you on the first and the second on the budgetary programming for 2019. The first operation is the deviation of Gimont, whose work began in 2015 with the realization of numerous works of art and which will continue until the summer of 2020. In the case of an operation under construction, the Government considers that its consideration is of paramount priority. It will therefore be able to benefit from a programming of just over €18 million in commitment authorisations in 2019, half of which is provided by the State. The date of commissioning remains unchanged: it is scheduled for 2021. With regard to the second operation, the construction of the section between Gimont and L'Isle-Jourdain, the work of which will be carried out in conjunction with the previous operation, the studies of this development are continuing as well as the various procedures prior to the initiation of the work. In 2019, it is envisaged that €2.7 million will be committed to continue the studies and land acquisitions required for the project. These two operations are co-financed by the State, the Occitanie region and the Gers department, through a total envelope of EUR 164.50 million entered in the 2015-2020 State-Region Plan contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u166	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u167	In 2018, no funding was committed: only funding was committed in 2017. If I understand correctly, new funding will be planned in 2019 but since 1997, when this work was entered into the plan contract, we are waiting for this two-track operation. The Gers is the only department in France to have no motorway: we only have this two-lane section. In addition, I focus on the Auch-Toulouse section, but the RN124 continues beyond Auch to join the Landes department. However, this section has been completely forgotten by all successive governments – I am not bringing it to trial. I would therefore like to remind the minister that there is also this section.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u168	Mr Bastien Lachaud, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 396, concerning the care of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u169	It is a cry of alarm and indignation that I want to address to you today. In Seine-Saint-Denis, children, adolescents and adults with disabilities face more inhuman situations every day, deprived of access to adequate education and care, deprived of their right to live with dignity. The cause is simple: the lack of sufficient resources, which is the result of a lack of political will on the part of your Government. Because what are you doing? What do you do when the departmental house of disabled people has only 175 staff to handle 37,000 cases and sometimes one year is needed to award the disability compensation benefit? When 900 places are missing in the adult care facilities of the department and several hundred of them are thus placed in Belgium? I'm saying in Belgium! When there are only 1,800 places in the medical-educational establishments for 3400 children oriented towards them and many of them are therefore deprived of the possibility of developing? When the staff needed for school inclusion are lacking and children are simply out of school? When lives are broken? When educators and caregivers, lacking the means to exercise their profession in good conditions, are reduced to despair? What are you doing? A great consultation on an online platform to gather testimonials! The testimonies, they're legion, Madam Secretary of State, and they're coming in! But what people with disabilities, institutions and associations need are sufficient resources, places and staff. I already hear your answer: you will accuse me of demagogy, of instrumentalizing suffering for political purposes. This is the parade your government uses every time, rather than providing concrete solutions and answers, rather than improving the lives of the most vulnerable. The truth is quite different, very simple. I'm talking about these dramas so you can finally stop being deaf ears. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to end by quoting a few words. "I don't want people with disabilities without solutions. This will be one of the priorities of my quinquennium": this is how candidate Emmanuel Macron spoke in May 2017. When will you finally deploy the political will and the means necessary to ensure that in Seine-Saint-Denis, and everywhere in France, these beautiful words no longer sound like a promise in the air?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u170	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u171	Mr President, you are calling my attention to the situation of disabled people and the departmental house of disabled people in Seine-Saint-Denis. Yes, the average time taken to process applications made to the CDMH in 2017 is of particular concern as they are close to double the national average. No, I cannot be satisfied that it takes more than seven months to respond to requests from individuals and families waiting for solutions. No, I cannot accept that the CDMH of Seine-Saint-Denis is largely free from the time limits set for it by the law, as I find unacceptable that it does not even bother to send its report of activity to the CNSA – Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy – as it is obliged to do! But is it just a question of means? Absolutely not! With a comparable volume of activity and staff, the Paris CDMH has processing times of just over three months and that of Bouches-du-Rhône of two months and 18 days. Yes, such deviations in processing times from one CDMH to another are intolerable for people and it is necessary that the situation of this CDMH evolve rapidly. However, let me remind you that the CDMH has been established since the 2005 law in the form of a decentralized public interest grouping. Their chair is the departmental councils, which appoint their directors, validate their budgets, lodge them and equip them. The departmental councils are legitimately very attached to this competence because it is a tool for responding to the daily concerns of our fellow citizens, within the framework of a policy of solidarity at the heart of the DNA of the departments. I do not shy away from this because the State takes a large part in the functioning of these bodies. Since their creation, the state's financial contribution has been consolidated and I have personally ensured, in 2018, the sustainability of the staff dedicated to the support of people without a solution. I have also undertaken an important task of simplifying procedures to ease the administrative burden and thus speed up responses. I would like to remind you that people who are recognised as disabled by more than 80% now have life rights: AAH – disabled adult allowance –, RQTH – recognition of the status of disabled worker –, CMI – inclusion mobility card – and AEEH – education allowance for the disabled child – will be awarded for life. But I know we can still make progress. That is why I wanted one of the five working groups of the National Conference on Disability to be dedicated to improving internal processes in CDMH. We need to speed up the answers for people, that's undeniable. As regards the offer of support for persons with disabilities in Île-de-France, and in particular in Seine-Saint-Denis, this has already been mentioned in this House last week, the situation is not acceptable. I was a guarantor of territorial fairness as soon as I took up my duties: it was the whole of the credits that could be allocated in 2018 according to criteria much more favourable to the Île-de-France region. The Regional Health Agency is in order. It has launched a plan for catching up and developing inclusive responses, which has been very successful: more than 300 files have been filed, which will allow authorizations by the end of this year, ranked by priority according to the quality of the responses and the speed of implementation deadlines. We are therefore far from the promises but perfectly in the concrete responses to people's needs. Yes, disability is really a matter of shared responsibility and everyone's business, Mr. Let's work together!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u172	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u173	Thank you for these answers. Nevertheless, we cannot accept that the Seine-Saint-Denis is always the department where the deadlines are the longest, where there are the least places. In my constituency, the district court can't even open to the public anymore because it doesn't have enough clerks! Not all students in my riding are in REP+ but in REP. There is a real specificity of the Seine-Saint-Denis: you can't just get rid of the department!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u174	Mrs Osson has the floor to raise her question, No. 410, concerning the allocation of resources to the priority security zone in Roubaix.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u175	Among police districts where it is sometimes very difficult for police officers to carry out their duties, that of Roubaix deserves the specific attention of the Government. In recent years, the central police station in Roubaix has been part of the Grand Lille area and must be very attentive and vigilant about police assignments. Indeed, the centrality of the prefecture's headquarters municipality tends precisely to mobilise resources, which is not necessarily illegitimate but does not contribute to strengthening the Roubaix police station as much as is necessary. Not always feeling supported, tested by the hardness of the Roubaisian terrain and the aggressions against them, many of the Romanian policemen asked for their transfer, which does not always make it easy to replace them and weakens the human potential of the police station. Yet in Roubaix, I attest, for having patrolled myself at night with the police forces, there are police officers, men and women, dedicated and courageous, who believe in their profession, in public order and in the Republic. When he came to Roubaix a few months ago, the President of the Republic had acknowledged that there had been losses of staff, that this was not normal, and that he would rebuild them in this constituency, which includes many priority areas of city policy and a priority security zone, that of Roubaix-Wattrelos. Therefore, my question to the Government will be threefold: how can the priority given to ZSPs in the allocation of resources be translated into equipment and men for the ZSP of Roubaix-Wattrelos? The previous minister of the interior, after the assignment of police officers in Lille for the republican reconquest of the neighborhoods this autumn, told me that at the beginning of 2019, it would be Roubaix's turn: what about it? Finally, would it not be possible in the ZSP like that of Roubaix-Wattrelos to strengthen police patrols, day and night, with the mission of helping to public tranquillity? The regional gendarmerie barracks are just ten kilometres from Roubaix, in the heart of the city! Should the security forces, whatever they may be, not be where security needs to be restored first and foremost? The separation between rural and urban has, I believe, lived when it comes to security at the level where it is necessary in some parts of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u176	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u177	As you know, Madam Member of Parliament, the government has made the security of the French its priority: 10,000 police and gendarmes positions will be created in five years. The budget of the internal security forces will increase this year by €335 million, which will enable our forces to be better equipped, a key condition for them to carry out their missions under appropriate conditions. With regard to Roubaix, I can assure you that the staffing situation, which you have stressed the commitment and which I, in turn, want to welcome, is the subject of the utmost attention. The division of Roubaix relies, in addition to its own resources, on departmental reinforcements, with 390 police officers and security assistants. The city benefits from the Republican security company assigned to security in Lille, and one section of which intervenes daily in Roubaix. The priority security zone of Roubaix-Wattrelos relies on some 50 specially dedicated and equipped police officers to act on this area. These include five pedestrian cameras and six vehicles. On the SPA, break-in flights decreased by 39% in the first 10 months of the year. The daily security police that you refer to are deployed throughout the national territory to allow the police to be on the ground daily. In some areas, such as the republican reconquest districts – QRR – the police presence is even more dense because these territories are experiencing particular problems not without an impact on crime. I confirm to you that Roubaix will benefit from the arrangements of the republican reconquest districts. As of January 2019, the second wave of QRR will be launched, including one in Roubaix-Tourcoing in the Blanc Seau and Croix-Bas Saint-Pierre districts. As of next year, reinforcements will be deployed, the fight against trafficking will be intensified. In the republican reconquest districts, you know, there are anti-narcotics units, combining prefect and prosecutor, and the police will be much more present on a daily basis for the inhabitants and better armed to respond to all kinds of violence. In order to relieve police officers of administrative tasks, procedural simplification measures already result in time savings in Roubaix, allowing police officers to devote more time to their operational tasks. Finally, in order to make our police more effective, more than fifty digital terminals have been deployed in Roubaix, thereby easing the administrative tasks of police officers. As you can see, Member, the state is committed to Roubaix to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens and to give the best possible working conditions to our police officers. With regard to the territorial distribution of powers between the national gendarmerie and the national police, it is not envisaged at this stage to review it, but to allow certain gendarmerie personnel to patrol in the police zone and vice versa. This issue deserves much further study. This is already the case in some specific areas, such as the intervention forces, but with regard to patrols, it is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u178	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to raise his question, No. 425, concerning the revalorisation of the hourly night allowance for the national police.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u179	The current context highlights the significant deterioration in the working conditions of our security forces. Faced with ever-increasing violence, national police officers accumulate overtime to compensate for missing staff, with deteriorating material resources. This increasingly heavy work is currently not sufficiently remunerated, particularly for night missions. There are, in fact, real disparities in nighttime compensation between the different administrations. Prison officers receive a supervisory allowance of 17 euros per night and per officer. When the service precedes or follows a Sunday or holiday, this amount is increased to 20 euros. For the municipal police, the compensation for hours worked at night varies between municipalities. The mayor applies a night rate, adding a night basket allowance, making the remuneration more attractive. Finally, for the National Police, the allowance corresponds to the number of hours actually worked between twenty-one hours and six hours, with quarterly payment. The hourly rate of the allowance for normal night work, i.e. 17 cents of euro, as well as the increase for intensive work, i.e. 80 cents of euro, have not been revised since 2001! In the interests of fairness, I would like to know, Mr. Secretary of State, whether you intend to upgrade the night hourly allowance for the National Police in the near future and give the officers a real status of "night worker". I know you are attached to the conditions of exercise of these women and men. The National Police expects reforms and real progress on your part in order to carry out its missions in better conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u180	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u181	Member of the European Parliament, the police provide every day, with dedication, professionalism and courage, the protection of our fellow citizens, in often extremely difficult situations. They deserve respect and recognition, and attention to improving their working conditions is indeed one of the Government's priorities. The specificity and danger of night work by police officers are real. Their night work gives rise to special hardship rest and financial compensation. The question is therefore real and legitimate. Several avenues for improvement are under way. The National Police, in consultation with the trade union organizations, has initiated a reflection on working time, which includes, inter alia, a better recognition of night work and of the resulting hardship. Thus, the project to create a real status of the night worker aimed at better preventing psychosocial risks and broadening the granting of special hardship rest is expected to result in the first half of 2019. We will also strengthen the medical and psychosocial follow-up of the police officers concerned. Finally, improving working conditions, especially at night, is one of the main axes of the vast programme of mobilization against suicide. Last September, eight working groups were launched with a view, inter alia, to improving the monitoring of staff involved in night work and exposed to specific occupational risks. Their conclusions will naturally be the subject of concerted action. Be sure, honourable Member, that Christophe Castaner and I will be attentive to the progress of this work because I know how important it is for police officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u182	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u183	I welcome your investment in this matter. You have understood well the expectations of these men and women who devote their professional time to the service of the population. I will be very active on this subject and attentive to the conclusions that you would like to bring in this year 2019, to which we attach great importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u184	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor to put his question, No. 426, on the legal framework for animal welfare.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u185	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, wild animals have been shown in travelling circuses or menageries since the 2nd century B.C. We are in the third millennium, at a time when the Circassian arts have profoundly renewed and reinvented, if not broken, the codes, always to make creation, the presence of wild animals in circuses seem totally aberrant in the light of contemporary standards of animal welfare. I have every confidence in this profession to add more ethics to animals. I want to make it clear here that I do not imply that all tampers or Circassians mistreat their animals. I just want to make it clear that by depriving them of the freedom that animals enjoy in a natural environment, they are guilty of an abuse that many of them probably ignore and in good faith the damage caused to the animal. Some municipalities have understood this, such as Tourcoing, Roncq, Ajaccio Chartres and Luc-en-Provence, where communal decrees caused a difficult episode between the Circassians and the elected ones last summer. In the land of Descartes, which considered the animal to be a machine, scientific knowledge of the animal has evolved tremendously, proving that animals are sensitive beings, which Parliament has recognised. I have tabled a bill to ban wild animals in circuses. The aim is to ensure the gradual extinction of circus households by requiring them no longer to acquire new wild animals, and to ensure that animals born to parents currently in detention are entrusted to approved structures and reintroduced, as far as possible, into their natural environment. This approach, which I do not underestimate the impact on a traditional sector of activity, will have to be accompanied, as will the transfer of animals to suitable structures to ensure that it takes place in the best conditions and the development of a quality show offer. I would point out to you that on a global scale, twenty-eight countries, including sixteen in Europe, totally or partially prohibit circuses with wild animals. We are now waiting for France, a country of human rights, to soon become the country of animal rights. I would therefore like to thank you for clarifying how the Government intends to support my bill in order to secure legally the decrees adopted by the communes and to improve the rights of the animals. Let me conclude by quoting this beautiful sentence of Theodore Monod: "If man were more modest and more convinced of the unity of beings, of his responsibility and of his solidarity with other living beings, things would be very different! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u186	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u187	Mr. Member, you are asking the Government about the establishment of a legal framework on animal welfare, and I thank you for that. This issue is now a growing concern of public opinion and concerns the situation of circus animals. I recall that today, the activity of circuses holding wild animals in France is strictly regulated by a ministerial decree of 18 March 2011. About 100 circuses present animals to the public. Within these establishments, the person responsible for the maintenance of animals must hold a certificate and the establishment must have a prefectural authorisation to open. In addition, standards of cages and facilities for animals are laid down in order to guarantee a minimum of animal welfare. Part of the population is asking, as you propose, that wild animals be banned in circuses. Some communes – you mentioned names – have refused to set up circuses on their territory in the name of animal welfare, while these establishments, which are regularly monitored, are in compliance with the regulations in force. In order to understand this problem, it is necessary to take into account all the issues – animal welfare but also social and economic issues for the Circassians – and to establish a dialogue between the parties. It is our collective responsibility to ease tensions between Circassians and certain NGOs or associations. To this end, the Government has decided to entrust to the National Commission for the Professional and Circassian Professions the establishment of a group dedicated to animal welfare in circuses. This group will be a forum for dialogue and will, by next spring, formulate proposals for measures concerning the place of wild animals in circuses. If legislative or regulatory developments appear necessary, they will therefore be decided on the basis of the work carried out by this national commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u188	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u189	You recalled the current regulatory framework. The proposal could go in the right direction if it involved animal defence organisations and parliamentarians. I think Parliament will do its job. It will be necessary for us to convince as many of our colleagues as possible of this bill and of the animal welfare working group to do so. Revisiting the place of the wild animal in circuses is one thing; To ban it is another and for my part, I am much more radical in this matter, while seeking peaceful relations with all. I only think that in the century in which we live, it is absolutely necessary to ban wild animals in circuses and it is in this sense that I will lead my fight, I hope with the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u190	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor to put his question, No. 429, on the plan to combat school violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u191	On November 9, a 16-year-old hit and tried to strangle his mathematics teacher in a professional high school in Val-d'Oise. The only wrong of the teacher was to want to give his course in peace. A few weeks earlier, on social media, the French could watch, misled, the video of the assault of a teacher at a high school in Créteil by one of her students who was robbing her with a fake weapon on the temple, under the laughter and amused comments of her classmates. This shocking and revolting episode generated an electroshock within the teaching community, which decided to break the silence with the campaign # PasDeVague to witness the violent realities that gangrene his daily life. In fact, every day 442 serious incidents are recorded in French colleges and high schools. Too many schools are no longer sanctuaries of the Republic but zones of ensauvage in which the law of the fort reigns, as was recently noted in a note by the intelligence services. In order to respond to the ras-le-bol and the anxieties of teachers, the Minister of National Education, Mr Blanquer, announced a plan to combat school violence that is still waiting. Experience teaches us that communication plans always germinate after media shocks but fade quickly after the departure of cameras and microphones, once the emotion fades. I recall that in 2006, the then Minister of National Education, Gilles de Robien, presented a national plan to combat violence in schools following a stabbing attack by a teacher. For what results, 12 years later? Since then, the situation has deteriorated considerably and insecurity has exploded in our colleges and high schools. To want too much to cultivate each other's differences, to prefer "living together" to "living in France" and to give up the assimilation of immigrant students, we are now faced with young people who are completely breaking up with the Republic, who applaud Islamist terrorists, insult freedom of expression and reject secularism. After the government cacophony on the presence of police officers in schools, what measures do you intend to implement to eradicate violence permanently in our schools?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u192	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u193	I would be grateful if you would excuse Mr. Jean-Michel Blanquer, who asked me to answer you. The serenity at school is indeed a republican requirement in order to guarantee the quality of education for all students. The school is a space that must be entirely devoted to the transmission of knowledge and values. Every assault, every insult, every incivility must be reported and punished. It is thanks to this republican firmness that it is possible to ensure the serenity of learning. The response must be in the classroom, in the establishment and in the vicinity of each establishment. In the class it is, first, to ensure a systematic response from the institution to each incident report and to guarantee support and support to teachers in case of aggression. In the institution, then, it is better to organize responses to the facts of infringement of the authority of adults, in particular by simplifying the conduct of disciplinary boards or by introducing a probationary period after the exclusion of a student. In the vicinity of schools, it is to strengthen the cohesion of all actors in order to better secure the school space, which requires enhanced cooperation. It was in this spirit that the strategic committee for the protection of the school was held on 25 October last, in the presence of the guard of the seals, the Minister of National Education, the Minister of the Interior and myself, as well as representatives of the associations of local elected representatives. The Prime Minister entrusted a mission to the President of Montpellier, Béatrice Gille, the Mayor of Morlaix and Vice-President of the Association of Mayors of France, Agnès Le Brun, and the Member of Parliament for Seine-Saint-Denis, Stéphane Testé. It will be coordinated by an Inspector General and will cover three dimensions: securing the surroundings of the establishments, by strengthening links with the public security forces and local and regional authorities; the empowerment of families and support for parenting; Finally, the establishment of structures designed for the most difficult pupils, in particular the "polyexcluded". The findings of this mission are expected by mid-December. Beyond this reflection, as you know, the relations between the internal security forces and the educational communities within the institutions – particularly in the most sensitive neighbourhoods – are already extremely strong and deep, which makes it possible to solve on a case-by-case basis a number of difficulties when threats or violence arise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u194	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-27-O1083.u195	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
