ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and on healthy and sustainable food (No. 627, 902, 838). The remaining time for the discussion of this text is six hours, fifty-eight minutes for the moving Republic Group, of which 100 amendments are under discussion; three hours 36 minutes for the Republican Group, 238 of which amendments are under discussion; two hours two minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, 14 of which are under discussion; two hours thirty-seven minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, 44 of which are under discussion; two hours eleven minutes for the New Left Group, of which 28 amendments are under discussion; two hours two minutes for the La France group, 25 of which are under discussion; Two hours thirty-two minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of which six amendments are under discussion, and two minutes fifty-two minutes for the non-attached Members, of which 50 amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u2	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with clause 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u3	I call Mr Dino Cinieri, the first speaker on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u4	Madam President, the Minister for Agriculture and Food, the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the rapporteur, the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, Article 14 provides for the prohibition of any rebate, rebate and rebate, differentiation of the conditions of sale or remission of units on a free basis, when selling plant protection products other than biocontrol products or basic substances. It also provides for high administrative fines in case of breach of the prohibitions. Such a measure ignores the reality of the ground. If producers use these products, it is never with pleasure, but to protect their crops, because preventive vaccine-type solutions do not exist, and the alternatives are not yet sufficient and involve profound changes, as the recent report of the Institut national de la recherche agronomique – INRA – on the uses of glyphosate and alternatives to this product in French agriculture points out. In addition, no impact assessment of the proposal was carried out either economically or in terms of the destructuring of part of the applied research.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u5	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u6	Article 14 and the following reflect in the law the expectations shared by the greatest number, as we have seen in the General Food States, and in our regular exchanges with our fellow citizens and the vast majority of farmers in our constituencies. In recent years, there has been a recognition of the need to reduce the use of plant protection products in agriculture. If France remains Europe's first consumer country by volume, given its size, it ranks seventh in terms of the amount of plant protection products used, compared to the number of hectares cultivated. It should be noted that this consumption is decreasing, but many of us hope that it will continue to decrease. The legislation contained in sections 14 and 15 will, among other things, strengthen the action plan to reduce the dependence of agriculture on plant protection products presented on 25 April by four of our ministers, including the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Ladies and gentlemen, as a scientist, in this case a chemist, who grew up on a farm, I would like to stress that these provisions will put French agriculture on a positive path, which, I am sure, will clearly promote the transition to a healthier diet and a less environmental impact. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, I would like to draw your attention to the need to approach the debate on these articles with rigour, pragmatism and the sense of interest of all: that of farmers, their neighbours, of all consumers, and of everything that makes our environment – water, air, soil, fauna and flora. To illustrate my point, I am willing to take the example of the drone application experiments proposed in Article 14e. This type of proposal requires a clear definition of the scope of application.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u7	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u8	I would like to give the meaning of all the amendments that I will be defending on the subject of pesticides, and to recall what should guide the legislator's decision. First, the threats to human health and the destruction of unprecedented violence against biodiversity put us at a standstill. Secondly, the degree of scientific certainty already acquired about the link between this irreversible damage and pesticides now entails not only the moral and political responsibility of the public authorities, but also their legal and even criminal responsibility. This means that any product known to be dangerous must be prohibited. Glyphosate is probable carcinogen: it must be banned. The Monsanto paper case alone, which is the greatest scientific falsification in history, must justify our decision. When pesticides are classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic, reprotoxic, endocrine disruptors, they must be prohibited. When scientists warn about SDHi fungicides – succinate dehydrogenase inhibitors – which alter the structure of human DNA, they must be suspended. Thirdly, I no longer stand up to the hypocrisy of the public authorities, which allow these dangerous products with full knowledge of the facts by defeating the agricultural world, and by calling on farmers to reduce quantities and make efforts. Today, farmers' health is at stake. That is why we are fighting for the creation of a victims' compensation fund to recognize the full harm they have suffered. Fourthly, the release of pesticides will not only allow the recovery of bees, earthworms, birds from the field, and the protection of human health, but it is also proven that it will improve farmers' incomes: reducing inputs through agroecology is a fundamental factor in improving agricultural income. Finally, when we took on our responsibilities and banned neonicotinoids, as of 1 September, France proved that it could lead all of Europe. What we have done for neonicotinoids, we must do for glyphosate and all dangerous pesticides.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u10	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u11	After six days and six nights of debate in this House, we are starting a new chapter on plant protection products. The willingness of the Government and the majority to reduce the use of plant protection products should be welcomed, while helping farmers to find alternative solutions. The National Assembly has been working on the subject for more than six months, through a joint information mission on the use of plant protection products. I welcome the work of the two co-rapporteurs and the Chairperson. Their report highlights two points: the strengthening of measures to protect against the health and environmental effects of plant protection products, and the promotion of a new agricultural model reconciling economic and ecological issues. Their proposals are in line with the logic developed by Ecophyto Plans 1 and 2, the Certificates for the Economy of Plant Protection Products (CEPP), the establishment of the Dephy Farms, and sections 14 and 15 of this bill. Virtuous practices should be encouraged to drastically reduce the use of plant protection products, such as organic farming, but also conversion farming. The proposal in the report to allocate 15% of the agricultural area for use in organic farming by 2022 has been introduced into the bill in committee. Members of the La République Group welcome this. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] With regard to glyphosate, we must welcome the President of the Republic's willingness and commitment to put an end to this product within three years, while at the same time accompanying farmers in this transition. I welcome the commitment of the actors, mobilized on this issue since the Agriculture Show.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u12	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u13	After years of massive use of chemical fertilizers, antibiotics, pesticides and other insecticides, the Government and the agricultural profession, recognizing that these products are harmful not only to consumers, but also to farmers themselves, have set themselves the goal, following the Grenelle de l'environnement, of reducing the use of these products. This is the purpose of the Ecophyto 2018 plan, launched in 2008, which aimed to halve, by 2018, the use of plant protection products in French agriculture. Unfortunately, this plan has not been successful and the stated objective has not been achieved. Worse, the use of these products has increased in our country since 2008. This observation of the stability – at best – of the use of plant protection products is hardly encouraging and appeals to all of us, as parliamentarians, citizens, parents, and people concerned about the country in which we live. Indeed, it is incomprehensible that the use of plant protection products does not diminish, whereas their harmfulness has been proven, both for human health and for the environment. It is easy enough, to exonerate itself from its own responsibilities, to simply accuse the lobbying of the chemical industry, even if it has played a colossal role. Contrary to the common view that organic farming is much less productive than conventional agriculture, an American meta-study, synthesizing the results of 115 studies from thirty-eight countries, covering fifty-two plant species and covering thirty-five years, has recently shown that the gap was, in fact, only 19%, but above all that it could be reduced to 9% and 8%, respectively, in the case of the use of associated crops – several plants grown on the same plot – or the rotation of crops. Moreover, a 30-year study by the Rodale Institute of Pennsylvania comparing organic and conventional operations in a Canadian province shows that, after a three-year transition period, biological yields have matched conventional yields. Moreover, these studies have also shown that organic crops have been more resilient than conventional crops. For example, yields of organic maize were 31 per cent higher in the drought years, and even higher than those of genetically modified maize known as drought tolerant maize. I want this to be approached in a pragmatic way. Consideration of the amendments will give us an opportunity to do so. First, we must stop blaming and stigmatizing farmers. We know how much progress farmers have made on this issue. They have been proactive, and are also looking for alternatives that preserve their health and improve the quality of products for consumers. We face several difficulties. Firstly, there is no common position at European level. The amendments that we will adopt are intended to set a course for the Government to defend acceptable and responsible measures at the European level. Then it seems necessary to develop alternatives to glyphosate – I rely on a report co-signed by André Chassaigne to say that. According to INRA, these alternatives exist, although there are still stalemates. It is not environmental NGOs that say so, but the National Institute for Agricultural Research, which seized on 2 November, submitted a scientific report to the competent ministers. This contribution will weigh heavily in the debate on the controversial herbicide, which Europe has just allowed again for a period that I think is too long. INRA underlines the scale of the challenge by recalling that more than 9100 tonnes of this active substance were consumed in 2016 in metropolitan France. Glyphosate is in fact part of the composition of several hundred weed removers. The INRA thus emphasizes "the destruction of plant cover by mechanical weeding and surface tillage of the soil", "labour to ensure the destruction by burial of the entire vegetation", "partial avoidance strategies including the use of winter frost of intermediate covers, or the use of specific agro-equipment for the hashing of vegetation", or "the cultivation under live mulchs [mulch or cover plants] which induces a limitation of adventitious plants". It is therefore a panel of methods that is proposed. The President and CEO of INRA warns, and we must also take into account, that there is no miracle solution and that a miracle molecule will not be found overnight to replace the products that will occupy us for a few minutes or even a few hours. To sum up, the position of the Communist parliamentarians is, I believe, balanced. Yes, we have to get out of the glyphosate, within a time frame compatible with presidential announcements. The three-year deadline seems to us to be a limit: we sometimes have to lay down calendar obligations. Yes to all of this, therefore, provided that accompanying measures are provided for farmers and that INRA is supported, with the necessary resources, in its search for alternatives. That is the way in which we intend to approach this important debate. Since the beginning of our debates last Tuesday, we have talked a lot about agriculture, beginning with advocating a reversal of the way prices are built, in order to make them remunerative for farmers. From this point of view, I think we are far from the point of view. Then we exchanged a lot about the need for appropriate sanctions, at the right level, for those who do not play the game. On this point, the changes made seem to me to be positive. Saturday and Sunday, finally, we talked a lot about environmental issues and animal welfare. The father of my family knows how legitimately younger generations are sensitive to these issues. Over the weekend, I believe we have reached fairly reasonable positions. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] But I want to say that on the eve of the end of our debates, let us think about the well-being of farmers. Let us not forget that, if we want an agriculture with a human dimension, which respects the environment and is concerned with leaving a planet in good condition for our children and grandchildren, we must preserve the well-being of farmers. It will also be the road map for Communist parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u14	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u15	With the last part of Title II, we are dealing with a major subject, that of plant protection products. I would therefore like to explain to you in a few words what our state of mind is, at the threshold of the discussion of the articles concerned. First of all, throughout the text – since we are almost at the end, even though we still have a number of amendments to consider – we have tried to articulate legislative measures, to send signs, regulatory measures and incentives to set a course for consumers, farmers and agri-food manufacturers. We have indicated to the actors the direction in which we want to go, and on each issue, things must be well distinguished. Secondly, the progress made in the committee, with regard to the initial text of the Government, seems to me to be very significant for our agriculture and for public health. Thirdly, in making these decisions, we must not lose sight of the fact that we do not live on a deserted island. I agree with what Mr Jumel has just said. The debate is legitimate, but it must be brought to the European level, since we have to convince our partners of the correctness of our position. For the benefit of this debate, therefore, it must not make us forget that overtransposition would be the worst solution in a number of cases, because it would lead to a reduction in the productivity of our agriculture while continuing to allow imports of products processed with the products we intend to ban in France. It is therefore this balance that we must maintain. On the other hand, and more generally, nothing will be possible if we do not trust farmers and if we do not accompany them. In a way, I want to say – because many of us know them – that we have to take them at the word. I hear what they said on the occasion of the General Food States, and what they say today by following our discussions: "Let us do it, let us move forward, we are ready to do it. We understood the message of the EGAs from the national representation. This message is that we need to move faster, perhaps faster, than they imagined: faster for consumers, for the environment and for themselves. What Mr Jumel said was very right: we have to make our decisions when we think of farmers. Alternative solutions exist, he rightly pointed out, but there are also stalemates. Under these conditions, research and support – including public support – are central issues if we are to avoid putting farmers at the threshold of roads that we know they cannot take. I will take only one example, to show that hell is sometimes paved with good intentions. About 10 or 15 years ago, much had been said about so-called "conservation" agriculture, which claimed to simplify tillage techniques. It is this agriculture that has made extensive use of the molecule that we are talking about today. The operators concerned had therefore equipped themselves accordingly, completely transforming their model. The three-year course, desired by the President of the Republic, obliges them, let us not forget, to reconsider once again their model from bottom to bottom. The solutions we thought were good ten years ago are no longer good today: we must not lose sight of this aspect either. In mountain departments – so not in mine – herbicide is also, sometimes, the only solution, at least the simplest. It is therefore imperative to encourage research and support farmers. And since, with the three-year horizon announced by the President of the Republic, we have made the choice, singular in Europe, to go further than European decisions, we must try to make it, ultimately, an asset. In other words, we must support companies and researchers, both in private and in the public, as far as possible. That we are the pioneers of what will prevail in Europe and, no doubt, later, outside it, is a great opportunity that we must seize. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] This is the balance that we must try to find between legislation, regulations and incentives. The message that I want to address to farmers is that we share, I believe, the same objective, that they want to achieve it and that, in order to do so, they have to do their part of the way without having to impose things on them immediately by coercion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u16	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u17	It has been three years since the Ecophyto 2 report, noting the cultural revolution of the Grenelle de l'Environnement and the Ecophyto 1 plan – including its limitations and even partial failure – was handed over to the Government. It was unanimous among all stakeholders and then stuck with three very different events: the filing of an appeal before the Conseil d'État and a livestock crisis; the presidential election; the general states of food. So it has been three years, I said, that the package of solutions and public action, remuscled, are ready, in the pipes, without being implemented. We must therefore question ourselves. I spent thirty hours – and sixty behind the scenes – in the animation of a workshop that, by its natural vocation, opposed actors such as Future Generations and the plant protection industry, and more generally all possible intermediaries and stakeholders.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u18	That's right, I remember!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u19	We have succeeded, not only in making peace, but also in getting out of the trench war, moving us into a global, historical trajectory, that of the generation of the transition. However, these wars of trenches, we are rekindling them in our parliamentary debates. The New Left Group's line, under these conditions, will be simple: the solutions, which have been recently validated, essentially take over, Mr.Minister, the ones that your predecessors were defending. They suggest that it is time to act and achieve results. To do this, we must avoid constantly stressful our fellow citizens, consumers and producers with a series of injunctions and polemics that do not benefit one or the other. We need to set ourselves a clear transition path, and achieve results to restore morale to everyone. The company is ahead of us. Among the conferences and meetings that I have been able to attend in recent years, there is not one that has taken place without a producer in the room speaking out saying that the objective I was talking about, he had already "pulverized" it, going much further by innovation. We must therefore only accompany all farmers; and to do so, two major tools are already at our disposal, which have been reinforced by the bill: on this point, I welcome the Government's action. The first instrument is the Phytosanitary Product Savings Certificate, based on the model of the Energy Saving Certificate. It reflects confidence in private dynamics: it is the responsibility of those who market phytopharmacy to invent, with their customers and suppliers – be they cooperative or private – the solutions of the future, with consular chambers and farmers. If we had the time – and perhaps I will take it later – I could mention a dozen examples of extraordinary success, where agronomic research, economic interest and product performance combine. Everyone, with such innovations, earns money and gains in self-image. So the Phytosanitary Economy Certificate is the solution that we need to generalize and multiply: I am pleased that this bill is moving forward. I will only light a small flashing light: at the same time, for reasons which belong to him and which the elections have decided, the President of the Republic has proposed to separate the council and the sale. Now all those who know a little about the subject – and I think I'm one of them – know that there is an adversarial injunction to entrust to those who market plant protection products the task of inventing solutions that allow them to free themselves from them while excluding them from immediate advisory activities. Such an equation is difficult to find; We must also respect the presidential commitment, which no one will dare to call into question here, and the success of the Phytosanitary Economy Certificates. This is the challenge we face in terms of practical work. I will, of course, highlight biocontrol, which now accounts for 5% of the solutions: there is a potential, through private and public research, of the order of 15% to 20%. We must therefore remove all the obstacles that would prevent the development of these alternatives, alongside those of plant biotechnology, mechanics and precision agriculture, which farmers are already using. We will therefore defend these solutions as well. Through several amendments, we will be led to debate the deadlines – three years, three and a half years or two and a half years. On this point, I repeat what I have already said in this Chamber, which is the result of the general food states: in a modern democracy, all stakeholders must take part in the vote. Imagine the turn of the table that this represents: thirty people, accustomed to waging war on specific subjects, have admitted that, in this democracy, it is up to the public power, relying on science and democratic institutions, to decide what is right and what is wrong, and not to the market or public opinion; Otherwise we would make a cultural hell for producers, consumers and society as a whole. We therefore advocate for a "reinstitution" of ANSES – Agence nationale de sécurité sanitaire de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail – and AFSSA – Agence française de sécurité sanitaire des alimentaires – as a preferred solution to Parliament's ability to decide on every environmental decision and on every molecule. We would not get out of it, and we would be bogged down in such debates. It is therefore necessary to restore objectives to these institutions, with confidence and in a clear way. I say without malice: when a decision is taken, the whole Government must support it. To this end, we will propose that Matignon, therefore the Prime Minister, be the only person empowered to decide on the decisions of AFSSA or ANSES. This will avoid cacophony and send clear messages to society. Finally, the transition to agroecology allows us to free ourselves from plant protection solutions alone. Some, by the way – even among those who were productivist thirty years ago – claim that chemistry may have been only a period in the history of agriculture. Beyond these pioneers, engaged in the transition, we must not forget those who have been victims of it in recent decades. Together with the New Left Group and all the people we brought together, on all political sides, a few weeks ago, I strongly pleaded for us to take up the initiative of the Senate, with regard to the creation of a compensation fund for the victims of phytopharmacy. We must indeed do justice to those victims. Without opposing the issues, ladies and gentlemen, we have spent so many hours on animal welfare! I would also like us to pay tribute to these producers, to these farmers, to those cereal farmers who, at some point in their lives, for lack of information or because of the shared failures of the private sector and the public, have suffered the changes I was talking about. We must, I said, do them justice and allow them to continue to live with the utmost dignity and gratitude. This will be a major battle for us in the debate we are starting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u21	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u22	First of all, I would like to thank the speakers from the three groups who have just spoken because the debate is going on in the right way. Beyond the cleavages, we are thinking about how to support this inexorable movement, which must be rapid, from the exit of plant protection products. The various groups are working in convergence on this subject, towards a common objective. What we want now is to succeed. The discussion will therefore focus on the means to be implemented. The question can arise in a dispassionate way, with questions about the role not only of actors, especially farmers, who are in the front line to achieve this objective, but also of the public authorities, and about the desirability of a law. This debate is the right way to ask all these questions. Farmers are in favour of less use of plant protection products, but they do not want alternative solutions to cost them more and to be more complicated. We need to work on these solutions because on this point we can do more. We have tabled an amendment in order to accompany 30 000 farms more quickly, an objective that was already included in the Ecophyto 2 plan. The rhythm, as we know, is not the right one: we need to accelerate. Most stakeholders know that alternative solutions exist in most cases. When there are stalemates, we have to deal with them separately. Similarly, when the proposed solutions are not economically cost-effective. But in any case, let us accelerate this success! Farmers are in favour of certain measures in Articles 14 and 15, but they want to ensure that in the end it does not cost them any more. This is the case with the separation of sales and advisory activities in relation to plant protection products or the supervision of promotions on these products. Again, we have tabled an amendment to assess the implementation of these measures on a quarterly basis, with all stakeholders, to show farmers that these measures do not lead to an increase in costs. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Farmers, the public authorities, are ready, society too. Two petitions, launched last week, bringing together more than 400,000 French, ask us to act together. The French are waiting for us, because they want it to change. Let's all work together to meet this great challenge!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u23	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u24	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, Mrs rapporteur for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, I particularly wanted to participate in the debate on this article. Although I am not mandated to represent the Overseas Territories, I will allow myself to speak on their behalf because, as you know, these territories have suffered a lot in recent years and have been shaken by many scandals, relayed in the local and national press. I am referring in particular to the nuclear tests in Polynesia, for which the ancestor of ANSES had declared that the health risks were minimal; Chlordecone, of which our friends from Martinique and Guadeloupe have reported a great deal recently because it has been shown that the soils of these two overseas territories are polluted, at least for the next 100 years; mercury in Guyana, which is known to eventually poison the inhabitants of that territory, yet the third reservoir of drinking water available per capita. Finally, I hope that ANSES officials will one day have the opportunity to mention the potential poisoning of the Ariane rocket's exhaust gases and fumes, which to date have been presented as totally harmless, which I find very difficult to believe. Today we must address the question of the composition and use of certain plant protection products, and other biocides, used on agricultural surfaces in ultramarine territories. We see recurring problems and inconveniences, which must lead us to go further in our analyses, especially since experiments regularly prove the ineffectiveness, if not the dangerousness, of some of these products. These decompose into molecules, which, registered in temperate climates, are inadequate for the equatorial and tropical climates under which these experiments are carried out. So I let you imagine the consequences for the health of our populations. Finally, I would like to recall some statistics that are cold in the back. Only 29% of plant protection uses on tropical crops in the overseas departments are covered, compared with an average of 80% in hexagonal France. This gap, which places us under the obligation to question ANSES, should challenge the Government, like national representation. That is why I have tabled an amendment, which does not eat bread but draws attention to the need for ANSES to adopt new procedures for plant protection products intended for overseas use. I hope that this request will be heard when we consider the amendment in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u25	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u26	I would like to address this debate on plant health products with the intention that the Government should exercise pragmatism. Ladies and gentlemen, you have all met farmers in your territories, who say they use such products, who admit that they cannot do without certain crops, and although they are experimenting with new agricultural practices. I am thinking in particular of a neighbour, Antoine, an agronomist, with whom I have very often discussed these issues. He practises reasoned agriculture, makes seedlings under cover and tries to adopt new agricultural practices. Yet he does not hesitate to say that without glyphosate, he cannot do it. Earlier, Delphine Batho described this molecule as probably dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u27	I'm not saying it, it's the WHO!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u28	But if we were told tomorrow that the waves are probably dangerous, would we stop using our phone? I don't think so. I therefore share the interventions of some of my colleagues, for whom it is necessary to deal with situations, sector by sector, in an extremely technical way, in order to determine whether certain products can replace glyphosate, and to accompany farmers, so that they can continue to produce what is necessary for human consumption. For this is the object of agriculture: to be able to produce fruit, vegetables, meat, wine and cereals. But all the cereal growers tell you that without glyphosate, they don't know how to do it. I would therefore like, ladies and gentlemen, this debate to give us an opportunity to discuss, on a sector-by-sector basis, the exit of glyphosate and to look at how to implement these devices with pragmatism. On this subject, I am surprised to see the group La République en marching showing a certain dogmatism, to which its members had not used us because this is not the spirit of macroism. I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that, on this subject, you are a dogmatist.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u29	Mrs Batho, you are asking for the floor. For a point of order? Otherwise, you cannot intervene since you have already intervened on the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u30	Yes, Madam Chair, point of order on the basis of Rule 58, paragraph 1, for personal fact – my colleague will forgive me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u31	So you have the floor, Mrs. Batho.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u32	This is how the WHO classifies glyphosate. And glyphosate is the only probable carcinogen still allowed in France and Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u33	Mrs Batho, this was not a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u34	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u35	Mr Minister, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for an opinion, I am pleased to see you again for the discussion of this important article. Let me question you directly, to ask you to exercise the same vigilance as you testified during the animal welfare debate. On this last point, I would say that things are rather, I weigh my words, acceptable. On the issue of plant health products, of course, we all agree on the environmental and public health issue. But there is another, which no one disputes, namely the place of agriculture in our country by the products it makes available to French consumers, and beyond the place of French agriculture in Europe and in the world. I felt, Mr Minister, in the text that you tabled, as in the debates in committee, that you really wanted to tighten the screw on plant protection products. Two major difficulties were highlighted in the committee. On the one hand, who will pay for the strategic council, this council paying for farmers, which will be introduced on each farm? On the other hand, how can the sale and advice of plant health products be separated, as is the case with veterinary medicinal products? Moreover, in practice, a veterinarian, who brings his advice, disposes of the medicines: everything is done automatically. On this important issue, Minister, we need you to ensure that French agriculture continues to be viable. The question of plant protection products, like that of animal welfare, gives me thought to the situation we have been in for the past year, when you launched the General Food States. Now we are fully following a text that is to be voted on on Wednesday. We are in such an emergency that we have to discuss the night, Saturday, Sunday, or even the holidays, if they were. The whole problem of public action today is to prepare the next. I hope, Minister, that, like your predecessor, Stéphane Le Foll, you will favour anticipation and take a visionary approach, which you will explain to both farmers, the plant protection sector and consumers, where you are driving the country. I hope that you will achieve this in the debate on Article 14, but by loosening the screw, because I believe that this text goes too far, that it is complicated, in particular to apply, and that it will not necessarily achieve the goals you have set. The majority of farmers have understood that plant protection products must be dispensed with, that fewer inputs are required, to produce crops and raise animals. To do this, it takes a little more time. Our role is to anticipate, to prepare this time, to think of the next, not to be in urgency. Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, I call on you again: in the hours when we discuss this subject, we will need your utmost vigilance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u36	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u37	First of all, I wanted to stress the very high quality of today's debate, which could not have been held a few years ago. It is not because parliamentarians are not the same, but because the time is different. Ours is characterized by an increasingly consensual awareness of the methodical and massive destruction of biodiversity. What is happening in France and Europe is appalling. I would like to make this statement in front of all the farmers' assemblies in my department, including those traditionally ranked very right. I am struck by what everyone tells me to be aware of this massive destruction of biodiversity as well as the proven risks to health, and that we really need to change our model. The first to recognize this are the farmers themselves, all the farmers, not only those who, at a certain time, defended a radical change of model. All today have these concerns and priorities. We're less and less in a trench war. This is an opportunity for all of us because we will not be able to change our model if we do not bring each other in massive numbers. Two examples come to mind. First, the first biocontrol and biotechnology company, Éléphant vert, owned by the Vivescia group – ex-Champagne Céréales – the largest French cooperative: €7 million in revenue two years ago, €20 million this year. When we discuss with them, its leaders themselves tell us: "Don't worry: in the next five or six years, everyone will go through it", by the will of the consumer, and by the – light – evolution of regulation. Simply leave time for each other; But that will be done. Second example: a month ago, I was at the General Assembly of the Meuse Dairy Union, my department; All producers switch to organic, because of the demand, especially that of Germany to which we deliver a lot of milk. So there is a change of model for all of us. If there had not been precursors, if some had not, one day, set foot in the flat, especially large organizations that I want to greet, all this would have been introduced very late. I also welcome the efforts of successive majorities, starting with the Grenelle de l'Environnement – I am speaking in the presence of my friend Christian Jacob, who was at the time a great chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u38	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u39	Since then, we have set ourselves demanding targets for reducing the use of inputs and plant protection products. We certainly need a little time, but we must not let go. I welcome the broad consensus that this subject seems to have in this House, and I thank you for your listening and your commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u41	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u42	It's the farmer talking to you. On the subject we are discussing, farmers have heard the message. But, in order for them to contribute to its realization, we must not start a war of trenches – to repeat an expression that has just been used and that I do not appreciate. You have to do it with them and convince them. Phytosanitary products have disadvantages, but let us not forget that if they are used, it is because they have brought solutions at some point. On the day my grandfather – it wasn't glyphosate at the time – was able to harvest wheat that was not invaded by weeds, which were not ripe at the same time as wheat, which really complicated the harvest; the day when he went from fifteen to twenty-five quintals, where, in that year, he was able to earn his living and that of his family; That day was a revolution for him. With all the disadvantages it may entail, the use of these products has a history that cannot be denied. A form of unconscious memory remembers what they served. This does not mean that their use should not be reconsidered; But it is necessary to have these elements in mind. Then let us beware of false good ideas. In agriculture, nothing is black or white. Why was conservation agriculture, which we talked about yesterday, introduced? Because of a phenomenon of massive destruction of organic matter in soil by the action of ploughing. However, in organic farming, this action is very useful for burying weeds and seeds so that they do not germinate. Labour therefore provides solutions to the problems posed by weeds, but it has disadvantages in terms of organic matter. One does not oppose the other. When you practice conservation farming, you use glyphosate. Again, the advantages and disadvantages must be weighed. To that end, let us rely on training and research. To speak in this way is not to question the problems posed by glyphosate. But there are other products classified as probable carcinogens, Mrs. Batho.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u43	No one's allowed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u44	I'll give you the phytosanitary index: you'll see there are dozens of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u45	In 2A, none!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u46	We'll come back. Some methods are to be used sparingly. For example, we're going to ban discounts, discounts and rebates. However, one of the commercial practices currently in place in agriculture is to forecast products that are likely to be needed in the spring in winter. It's about strategic advice, thinking, programming. This allows the cooperative or the trader to predict the quantities that will be needed: it is not at all the same as buying at the last moment, when the farmer, overwhelmed by a problem, is less objective when he decides to add a particular product. Another problem is the separation of counsel and sales. I understand the philosophy of the measure: the doctor must also be distinguished from the pharmacist. But today, our cooperatives, our traders work with field advisors: adaptation will be difficult, it will take time and organization; We'll have to think about it. As Thierry Benoit said, let us therefore keep decisions too radical; Let's go with the movement. With regard to glyphosate, which will serve as a symbol in the debate, the best strategy is to act on the price. Today, this product is very inexpensive, so very easy to use. I am convinced that there are margins for progress in other methods of training in employment. If we play on the price of glyphosate through the levy for diffuse pollution, the plant protection tax, farmers will find solutions in a much more efficient and radical way than research promises to date. I therefore plead for progressivity of measures and for accompanying and training in future methods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u47	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u48	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u49	I will not go back to the aspects already developed by Sébastien Jumel. There has been the front glyphosate, since we have long passed from this product; we are in the glyphosate period; There will be one after glyphosate – and, as far as I'm concerned, the sooner the better. But we cannot go from one phase to another brutally and without accompaniment. There was talk of European harmonisation. Of course, the issues under discussion must be widely shared at European level. But I would like to introduce another issue in the debate: that of free trade treaties such as CETA or MERCOSUR. How will our future decisions, which are often said to be distortive, be taken into account if non-European products, still being treated in other countries with the substances that we would have banned, are imported under such agreements? This problem cannot be ignored. Beyond a mere incursion, he must have his full place in the follow-up to the law. It has obviously not been taken into account, Mr.Minister, since we are about to decide without having anticipated it. So what are you thinking about if it is addressed within the framework of the free trade treaties to which we are or are going to be a party?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u51	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u52	On this subject, as some of our colleagues have said, we really need to be measured. Firstly, not a farmer today wants to use more plant protection products for reasons of cost, health and respect for the environment. Secondly, let us look at the efforts that have been made by the agricultural world over the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u53	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u54	These efforts have been financed by farmers themselves, through development funds – whose financing, let us recall, depends on them – through soil analysis, lower doses – by treating in low volume, by paying more attention to product remanences, by taking care of temperature and rainfall, all of which are controlled over time. It is this good use of products that has reduced the use of all inputs, fertilizers as plant protection products. We must continue on this path. It is not by law, by prohibiting any use overnight, that results will be obtained, but by accompaniment. However, to support farmers, more funding is needed for research and development. I am thinking in particular of varietal research, an area in which, having been in advance for years, France has unfortunately fallen behind, particularly as a result of the debates on the use of genetically modified organisms. However, we need genetic engineering because obtaining resistant varieties reduces the use of plant protection products. Just as no one is taking drugs for pleasure in human health, using these products is because they have prevented diseases and, in some cases, the widespread use of other products such as coal, which were very dangerous for human consumption. All this has been done gradually. Let us therefore remain within this framework, while continuing to enable our agriculture to develop research and compete against its neighbours, particularly within the European Union. Let's not overtranspose standards: every overtransposition penalizes our farmers. If, while glyphosate is allowed for five years in the rest of the Union, we limit the duration of this authorisation to two or three years, we will penalise farmers without changing anything for the consumer. It has been seen for some insecticides used to treat cherries and strawberries. By banning products used by our neighbours and competitors in the Union in France, human health is not improved in any way, but we are undermining the competitiveness of our farmers and, consequently, the financing of research. We must therefore take a balanced position. It has been recalled that I have had the honour of being rapporteur for this House of the first Grenelle de l'Environnement. We then set several objectives, always in a spirit of accompaniment. Every time we wanted to transpose, impose strict rules, we penalized our agriculture. That is not how we will support agricultural development as we all want to. Let us take the example of ploughing: when plowing, about 1.2 tons of carbon is released per hectare! Without ploughing techniques, carbon dioxide can be stored, but soil erosion can also be limited. Experiments were carried out on land near streams, the soil being ploughed downstream only: during the rain, the stream passing near the ploughed ground became yellow and completely opaque! On the contrary, on the plot that had not been ploughed, the water remained clear. The erosion phenomenon is therefore very important. In short, there are many things to consider. Agriculture has never moved forward with strict rules and prohibitions. Our role is first of all to support farmers, to ensure that they are as efficient as possible, but also to protect them as best we can, for our health and for theirs. That is why I always come back to the importance of the tripod that we were talking about two days ago: there is the aspect of economic profitability, without which an approach does not last; But, since profitability for profitability has no interest and should benefit those who work, there is the aspect of improving social conditions; and the third is respect for the environment: according to the formula that many know here, land is borrowed from its children. Each farmer wants to transmit his working tool in the best possible conditions and thus ensure the protection of the environment and biodiversity. Let us not lay down rules that could have an extremely heavy impact on the agricultural environment. Every time there was effort, it was farmers who did it, because governments, whatever they were, had defined conditions that would allow them to go further, not bans or dogmas, as might be the case on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u55	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u56	As far as the use of plant protection products is concerned, three points seem important. First of all, during the examination of this text, in particular Title I, in the section on price formation, we had to resign ourselves and admit that Parliament's scope of action was essentially national and that the European and global levels would escape the arrangements we voted for to improve the competitiveness of French agriculture and the economic situation of our farmers. It must have been noted that we did not have a hand on these levels. We cannot accept this reality on the one hand and want to be extremely pre-eminent in environmental matters on the other. There is no reason to force the French farmer more than the European farmer, otherwise we risk making Title II the negative counterpart of what we have tried to create in Title I. Let us not add constraints to farmers who, on the contrary, seek to improve their economic situation. The two titles will not be compatible, if we do not adopt the same logic. Secondly, with regard to the environment, questions arise today, not only about the use of a number of products, but also about cultural methods. Everywhere in France farmers are conducting this reflection. Christian Jacob just said that ploughing is not the panacea. I myself, son of farmers, live in a very pentuous area where intensive tilling, by removing some hedges and fences, has dramatically eroded the land for decades. Soils have been depleted, rivers have been polluted and a lot of difficulties have been caused, which have been corrected precisely by the practice of different plantings, thanks to the use of certain plant protection products. Don't throw the baby away with the bath water. Let's think about how acclimatization has taken place, despite several constraints. Finally, in this difficult debate, I do not think we should claim to educate farmers. They are perfectly educated, fully aware of the risks that are high on the use of certain products, perfectly lucid on their practices. They're calling for justice. Wherever we meet them, their federations, their unions or their groupings, they ask us how we can accept that, today, in 2018, France bans products while its neighbours do not prohibit them; how, in a law designed to improve the protection of the French consumer, we can allow him to believe that he will no longer have certain substances on his plate when we know very well that this is not true. The example of neonicotinoids has shown this: they have been banned from French farmers, whose production costs have increased; The market has therefore imported Spanish or Italian products, which are treated, in which case the French consumer has suffered the same nuisances. We must do farmers justice and answer their questions in our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u57	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u58	In Article 14, we will talk about pesticides. I say "pesticides," because I've heard a number of colleagues talk about "phytopharmacy." But it's not phytopharmacy. Or, if that's the case, I propose that the methods of evaluating these molecules align with those of the pharmacy, which are much more demanding. It is therefore 60000 tonnes of pesticides that are applied every year in our country. For what impact? Proven problems on biodiversity, which no one can deny, as the examples accumulate and are confirmed every day by scientists. But also, this has not yet been said, the sterilization of agricultural soils, through the accumulation for more than half a century of pesticides and heavy metals, the erosion caused by chemical agriculture and ultimately the loss of yield that we begin to measure in a tangible and fairly significant way. The massive use of pesticides is also a major health scandal. Glyphosate and other pesticides are now found in the food we consume on a daily basis. A recent study has shown that the cereals our children consume are more than 50% contaminated with glyphosate... Today, SDHI fungicides – succinate dehydrogenase inhibitors – that Delphine Batho was talking about earlier are also very massively present in all our foods, since they are used against mould not only to treat cereals in the fields, but also directly on fruits and vegetables. It should also be noted that the vast majority of the molecules of these pesticides are classified as carcinogens, mutagens, reprotoxics or endocrine disruptors. It is not anodized information that can be barred from a feather line by looking elsewhere. It should also be remembered that farmers and women farmers are the first victims of these 60000 tonnes of pesticides. How did we get there? This system is the result of a model of more than sixty years which must be completely challenged today. At the time this model of mechanized and chemical agriculture was conceived, there was a need to free up labour in the countryside to go to rebuild the country and work in the industry. Today, the pattern has reversed, as large cities and cities suffer from a shortage of jobs. That should make us think. The alternatives that we propose will allow us to recreate employment in the countryside to invent the agriculture of the 21st century, by coming out of this completely obsolete model. There are alternatives. We have to keep working on it. There are, for example, different agricultural practices: rotations and crop associations, but also, Minister, the unconcerned natural preparations – PNPP – on which you are in the process of retreating, as we will discuss earlier. You do nothing to facilitate and expand their use! I also wanted to reply to President Jacob, who is unfortunately no longer in the Chamber. He told us about the need for GMO seeds, but he forgets that the seeds that best adapt to our regions, to our climate change and to potential health problems have often been obtained by population selection. Farmers must be allowed to reuse the seeds they have produced easily and freely, keeping the most beautiful specimens of their crops! We know it's working! I have met farmers who have been doing so for several years and who even manage to select drought-resistant seeds that they are facing in my region. These are alternatives! You can't say there's none. Organic farming has proved this for many years on a daily basis. Its farmers live well and have decent incomes, applying these different solutions. The INRA also shows this in its latest studies. Not only is it possible, but it allows our farmers to live properly. Definitely, we need an exit path. No one here has claimed that we would wake up tomorrow morning by coming out of the model of chemical farming. It takes an exit path, but not the one drawn in article 14. It must be demanding, and requires financial support from the Government, in order to move towards other practices, to allow farmers to reorient their production, or even to change it if necessary. We must also support training: this agriculture consumes training and know-how, and it seems to me that support for public agricultural education is not up to date, as I said yesterday. A few words about public research. We have talked about INRA on several occasions, but I would also like to mention the INSERM – National Institute of Health and Medical Research – or the CNRS. Their work can enable us to return to a more virtuous model and move towards a 21st century agriculture. But to what do scientists in research teams spend their time today? They spend 90% of their time filing projects with the National Research Agency – ANR – of which only 10% will find funding! Thus, 90% of the time of our researchers is not used to do research but to find funding. Public research needs to recover funding commensurate with the challenges of the period. We can't just pay for the fluids and let everything else be financed by private or very random funds, as they depend on the arbitrations of the NRA. Yes, a radical change is needed. France did not fall from the cabinet this morning by saying that we had to change our model: it is the whole society which, massively, demands a change in agriculture, because it wants a change in food. This evening we will judge the direction of the exit path, and see if it meets the expectations of society as a whole. The decision that has been made on the rapid release of glyphosate will be a good clue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u59	What are you replacing him with?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u60	As I told you, other solutions exist, and Delphine Batho talked about them. It is one of the most dangerous molecules still used. We must set an example of the transition to a 21st century agriculture that respects our farmers, our soil, our environment, but also all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u61	Mr Yves Daniel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u62	Many things have been said by a large number of speakers, whom I have listened carefully. This reflects the importance of the issue, and also the fact that we have all realized that health is a priority for our citizens and for our society. I welcome the fact that this health issue links farmers, consumers and citizens. It is indeed important, in order to find true answers, to deal with the question of health in a comprehensive way, i.e., to consider together the health of the planet, that of the living and that of humans. It is the only way to preserve our French health care system, based on both preventive and curative principles. This is the only way to ensure the coherence of the work that the executive and Parliament are doing together in a responsible manner. I'm speaking here as a member of the nation. I have also appreciated the fact that our rapporteur reminds us that the farmers who sit in this House, and there are quite a few of them, are first and foremost Members of the nation. I do not want you to consider that the farmers who express themselves here are corporatist and that they only defend their interests. They just have their say and I would like to share with you, very simply, some realities. Mr Jumel said earlier that farmers were ready to commit – that's a fact, and that's not just yesterday: we've been committed for decades! – but he added that they did not want it to cost them more. But that's not the problem! We don't care how much it costs us! What we want is for the price of our products to be remunerative and for farmers' incomes to be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u64	I didn't say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u65	I hope that, thanks to this law, prices will finally be determined on the basis of the reality of production costs, taking into account the work of the peasants. Furthermore, if we want to achieve the two objectives of this law – to ensure an income for farmers by equitably sharing the added value, and to ensure a healthy diet – we need to look at the possible alternatives and the time that will be required to implement them. For my part, I knew the "pre-phyto" in my youth, with the exploitation of my parents, then I saw the use of plant protection products, and for twenty years, I have known organic farming, that is, the "post-phyto". The lesson I learn from this is that neither of the two practices gives full-risk insurance. We must ensure the incomes of farmers in the face of climate and living hazards, which vary from year to year. It is therefore important to find a variety of alternatives and, in order to do so, to develop research. It is certainly necessary to compensate the victims, but also, at the same time, to ensure the income of the peasants by means of the regulatory tools designed to deal with these hazards.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u67	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, and although I have been a little long, I hope that this law will move us from the politics of speech to that of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u68	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u69	It is customary, when one of us is questioned by name in this House, that he can answer. It seems to me, dear colleague, that you did not listen, or that you misunderstood what I said. It has not escaped me that farmers, on this and other matters, do not want to live on subsidies or subsidies, but rather a reward for the work done. In order to achieve this, Mr President, I hope that you have voted on all the amendments we have tabled on Title I of the text on price indicators. I also hope that you will be at our side asking for a law that regulates, a law that protects, and a law that forces large distributors to take into account the purchasing power of farmers. But you were out of the question about glyphosate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u70	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u71	To name no one, I will reply to our colleagues from the UDI-Agir and the Republican groups who told us that the Republic on the move and the Government lacked pragmatism and cohesion on the issue of glyphosate. I just want to tell you that this text does not speak at any time of the removal of glyphosate! Our farmers today are making a great deal of effort to reduce the use of glyphosate, and that is why we have not included its deletion in our text. In conservation agriculture, the quantities of glyphosate used are between 0.7 and 1 litre per hectare, while Europe allows us to go up to 7 litres! We must promote conservation farming practices and devise alternative solutions in the coming years. It is not a matter of time, but a question of technical solutions and cultural methods. What the Government is saying is that we must move towards the cessation of glyphosate within three years, if we find an alternative technique or method of cultivation, which ensures the same price and yield. If we do not find a solution and we have to make decisions, they will be taken on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u72	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u73	Ah! A farmer's word!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u74	[[Smile]] I want to share my experience. I have forty-five years of agriculture, including forty-five years of plant protection products. Until proven otherwise, my health check-ups aren't completely bad. My doctor only told me yesterday that I was suffering from high blood pressure: I told him that after six days in this House, there was something to do, and that the minister was probably suffering from the same thing. The question, in my view, is that of reducing the use of pesticides. It is wider than that of simple glyphosate. When I moved in forty-five years ago, the Roundup was used; When I retired, we went to glyphosate. I have used large quantities but, over time, the doses used have changed considerably. I would like to remind you, Minister, that it is the farmers who, as early as the mid-1980s, have found solutions through the SUAD – services of agricultural utility and development – and the CETA – centres for agricultural technical studies. Indeed, Christian Jacob recalled, we had ourselves hired engineers to work on these subjects, because we had noticed that our interest was already to reduce the burdens. At the time, these products were proportionally more expensive, but also for higher food prices. Thus, in the 1990s, the technique of "no ploughing", with the minimum tillage, and the reduction of the first beet herbicides, in the Aisne, which I myself attended, was born. All of this to tell you that it's beautiful that farmers are no longer hardies of the plant protection product, because they know very well that it's not good for the soil or for their wallets. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] Everyone seems willing, minister, to show some wisdom on these issues. In any case, farmers will be able to adapt, as they have always done, provided that research advances on a number of subjects, which I hope with all my heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u76	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u77	I'm not a farmer. One of my grandfathers was, but I didn't have a chance to talk to him about it, because he left far too soon. Although a Member of Parliament for Val-de-Marne, I grew up in Martinique. But Martinique, like Guadeloupe, is confronted with the consequences of the use of Chlordecone, a pesticide that had been banned in the United States as well as on the mainland for some 20 years. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Chlordecone has been known to have deteriorated soil and groundwater for centuries. I'm not a farmer, I'm not a technician, I repeat. I am just one of those who calls for great caution and vigilance in the use of pesticides. Let's think about our children, think about our food, move forward intelligently.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u78	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u79	The objectives of this bill are to sustain and safeguard our agriculture and farmers, on the one hand, and to ensure quality food on the other. We must always keep these two objectives in mind. Because they are the two pillars on which the bill is based, care must be taken to maintain the balance between the two. To ensure the balance of trade relations, we favoured groupings and agreements: it was the first leg. The second leg is all about the quality of the diet. We have discussed at length the collective restoration and the part to be taken by organics, and we now come to the issue of plant protection products. I don't think the debate is about: for or against plant protection products? I will not comment on the dangerousness of these products, because it is the role of experts. For me, the real question is whether or not we have the freedom to undertake in France? Do we, or do we not, have the freedom to work the land according to the means available? I said yesterday that in this debate some people behave like ayatollahs. It is necessary to avoid up to the point, that is to say to want to ban these products at all costs when there is no substitute. To move forward, we need to offer sustainable solutions to the people who work the earth to provide us with quality food. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let us not have fun making the account of who is or is not a farmer in this House. For my part, I do not know, in the Vaucluse and the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, any farmer who was born with the firm intention to poison people. They are there to provide us with food and quality products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u80	Mrs. Barbara Pompili has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u81	I have just arrived in the Chamber, after following the debates from my office. So far, they had a certain hold, because all the speakers sought to overcome sterile oppositions and caricatures. But some are falling back in these ways – I have just heard the word "ayatollah" for example. It is a shame: once again, we will fall back into these political postures that prevent us from moving forward in a debate that deserves it. We do not have to count the points, to judge who does what: we are all members of the nation, guarantors of the general interest. We must therefore try to reconcile interests that are not always converging, in order to arrive at the best solution. Today, as Jean-Claude Leclabart has said, no farmer wants to spread plant protection products all over his land. None. Farmers have already reduced the amount of plant protection products they use. They want to keep moving in this direction, but they won't be able to do it alone: they need society to help them. If we agree on this basis, try to move forward in good intelligence. We are facing a serious problem of biodiversity loss. Unfortunately, we know that plant protection products are largely responsible for this problem, which affects us all, farmers or not. The loss of biodiversity will affect our lives, our health; it threatens the very existence of the human species. So we have to react quickly. The President of the Republic had a very courageous speech: "Glyphosate, in three years' time, it's over". Some will always ask for a little extra time. We, what we want, is to give ourselves the means to do it. That is why we stand by our farmers to help them, to train them, to finance them, and also to stop selling anything to them. I have heard some agree with the approach, provided that farmers are assured that they will be able to produce exactly the same quantities, that they will have exactly the same yields. But that's not possible! We know that yields have increased a lot with the use of plant protection products! I have discussed this with a number of farmers: do they really want to keep the same yields? Of course not. What matters to them is to have opportunities for their products, and to earn enough income to live with dignity. It is to be able to be proud of the fine work they do, which is to feed their fellow citizens. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] That's how we need to think. We will discuss the best way to do this later. There are several opinions on this. For my part, I am convinced that we must first set clear objectives and then give ourselves the means to achieve them. We'll discuss it. But I wanted to do that right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u82	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u83	Before I turn to the amendments, I would like to explain to you how the Government envisages this part of the Phytosanitary Products Bill. First of all, I would like to commend you for the quality of the discussions that have taken place on this clause, as has been the case since the beginning of the review of this bill. It wasn't about pointing a finger at anyone. Disagreements can be overcome: we must find together the best path and compromises in order to move forward together for our farmers. We must also take the time to explain our actions, and to draw positive perspectives together. In accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic, we are working with professionals and civil society to make French agriculture less dependent on pesticides. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not work alone on this subject, but in connection with Nicolas Hulot and the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, with Agnès Buzyn and the Ministry of Health and Solidarity, as well as with Frédérique Vidal and the Ministry of Higher Education and Research. In this area, we need to look at it, to combine the economic approach, the environmental approach and the health approach – not to mention research and innovation, which are absolutely necessary. That is how we must develop agronomy, ensuring the continuity of our actions. As you know, on 25 April we presented the Government's road map on plant health products. I am holding it at the disposal of those Members who would not have been aware of it. This road map was announced by the Prime Minister in his closing speech of the General Food States on 21 December. It presents four specific commitments, four clear priorities. First, to reduce rapidly the use of substances of greatest concern to health and the environment. Second, better knowledge of the impacts to better inform and protect the public and professionals – which of course leads to the preservation of the environment. The third priority is to increase the research and development of alternatives and the implementation of these solutions by farmers, who are the first to be involved. Finally, the fourth is to strengthen the Ecophyto 2 plan, improving its governance and functioning. To do all this, we need to mobilise the sectors and the farmers: it is a sine qua non for progress in order, for things to change. We must move forward on this issue with confidence and determination. That is why the President of the Republic has set ambitious targets, such as the release of glyphosate in three years, even though Europe has again authorised the use of this product for five years. On this point, France is ahead: it shows the way. That is what allows it to be listened to at European level. Setting a date beyond which it will no longer be possible to use this product makes it possible to mobilise research, innovation, to find lasting solutions right now. That is how we will respect this road map. If he has decided that we will have to get out of the glyphosate in three years, the President of the Republic has also specified that there will be no ban without a solution. I will come back to that later, when we have this debate, because it is an important element of reflection. To change practices, we need tools. Some are legislative: they will be discussed in future articles. In this connection, I welcome the work of the committee, which has enriched the text on several points. One of them is the supervision of business practices, to avoid incentives for precaution purchases. Another is the separation of sales and advice, so that farmers have real advice, without any interest in the sale of plant protection products – I know that there is a debate on this point: we will lead it in a calm manner. There is also continuing training, thanks to the certificate of economy of plant protection products and the certificate of training of professional users called "certiphyto", but also the role of the APCA – permanent assembly of chambers of agriculture – and agricultural education in the reduction of plant protection products. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what you worked on in committee. These are the advances that you have made with regard to Article 14 – not to mention, of course, the development of biocontrol, referred to in Article 14d. We also need instruments to strengthen the protection of our people, our citizens, ourselves – and the environment as well. That is why I will introduce an amendment to allow the administrative authority to take measures for the protection of residents. Other measures provided for in the road map do not necessarily fall within the scope of the law: I am thinking, for example, of the revision of the orders to protect bees and water points.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u85	We have discussed this on several occasions. Some of you want to put measures in the law, but as I have already told you, the law must be effective, clear and legible. When she's too chatty, it doesn't work. But we need efficiency, we need to act now. What is not within the scope of the law, we will do so: this is in a way the contract of trust that the Government is proposing for national representation. Finally, we need expertise, research and innovation to find alternatives, prioritize and disseminate them. These are the elements that I wanted to bring to your attention, with regard to the subjects that you have raised in your speeches: we will have the opportunity to return to them. [[Smile]] [[Smile and applause]] And finally, Mr Leclabart, let me say very friendlyly that HTA, high blood pressure, is well treated! Even after seven days of intense debate, the art of breathing can avoid many medications. And you know that HTA likes to attack individuals... fluts, like you and me. So we know what we have to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u86	I have before me nine identical amendments, Nos 85, 175, 589, 636, 779, 932, 960, 1041 and 1681, to delete the article. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u87	The purpose of this article, which is to prohibit any remission or differentiation of conditions of sale, is not accompanied by an economic impact assessment. I agree with the need to move towards a reduction in the use of plant protection products, but the impact of this provision on the farm economy needs to be assessed. Several speakers stressed the need to support farmers who, I would remind you, are voluntary in reducing the use of plant protection products where possible. All reduction measures should therefore be accompanied by measures encouraging the use of alternatives where they exist. [[Mr. Jean-Yves Bony applauds]] Finally, let us trust farmers: it is very reductive to think that the use of plant protection products is correlated with the price reductions that may be granted by retailers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u88	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 175.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u89	I think that this article should be deleted, for the reasons I have already outlined. I would like to respond to a number of remarks made by several speakers. No, farmers are not polluters. We all agree to reduce pesticides, but we need to know where, when, how, and what to replace them. While these products are causing health problems, there are also farms in difficulty: it is therefore necessary to replace pesticides with other products. It is up to us to find which ones, since Ms. Pompili told us that we were going to find solutions by thinking together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u90	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 589.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u91	I agree with what Mr Cinieri has just said: we consider that, in the absence of a thorough reflection on products and methods of substitution, the mechanism that you propose by this article will only increase the constraints on French agriculture, to the detriment of our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u92	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 636.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u93	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u94	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor to support Amendment No 779.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u95	While the purpose of this bill is still to provide better prices to our farmers, this provision would risk increasing their production costs. It is absolutely necessary to have in mind the economic impact, since the additional cost for Ferme France was estimated at almost 300 million euros. It is impossible to remain insensitive to the risk of such an increase for our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u96	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 932.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u97	Defended, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u98	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 960.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u99	We have all referred to the need to strike a balance between the need for all French and French to remain healthy and the need for farmers to continue to produce in good conditions. That is why the amendment proposes to delete this article as long as no alternative solution has been found to completely eliminate the use of plant protection products in plant production.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u100	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1041.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u101	I have tabled this deletion amendment because I do not understand the logic linking the search for a lesser use of a dangerous product to discounts, rebates and discounts on that product. Of course, plant products are dangerous, everyone knows that. We have to go to a lower dependency. But do not take farmers as ignorant: they do not buy plant products according to the discounts, discounts or discounts they get, it would be indecent to believe, but only according to their needs. I'm going to go further: the ban on rebates, rebates and rebates could encourage farmers not to process, and they would get a lower or lower harvest, which would ultimately lead to an increase in costs – I reason with the absurd, but why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u102	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 1681.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u103	Defended, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u104	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u105	It is of course not the intention of the Government or of ours to oppose those who use plant protection products, who would be the wicked, to the virtuous who would not use them. Of course that is not the meaning of these amendments and that no one uses them for whims! I will continue to talk about "phytosanitary products" because I hate the word "pesticides". They are insecticides, herbicides and fungicides, among other things, that manage the health of plants, whether you like it or not. I am, of course, against these deletion amendments. Nicolas Turquois has provided us with a very good justification by evoking the dead season: even if there are discounts, the sellers of plant protection products do not lose money! Rebates and rebates will not be prohibited because the price of plant protection products will increase, and as a result the cost of production will increase. On the other hand, it will be a strong sign to move towards a more virtuous agriculture. Farmers have obviously understood the need for this. All the agricultural trade unions too: the Peasant Confederation has been advocating for a very long time for a reduction of plant protection products, and the majority trade union presented at the Agricultural Fair its plan of solutions on the subject. It is a question of accompanying them, while obviously taking the time to analyse things well. It is a matter of being at their side to get out of the use of plant protection products – starting as quickly as possible with the most harmful ones. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR and GDR groups. Mrs. Delphine Batho also applauds]] At this time, I cannot help thinking about a friend, a wine farmer in Charente-Maritime, who is now suffering from Charcot's disease. He's about my age, he's been responsible for young farmers. We can't play with that anymore. We don't have time anymore. We really need to take strong and radical action. These measures must of course not be taken against the profession. This is the logic of the general states of food: to walk with the farmers, to exchange with them. But the removal of rebates, rebates and rebates sends a strong signal to farmers: the sign that we are accompanying them towards another solution. The opinion is against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u106	Before asking for the Government's opinion, I would point out that, on identical amendments Nos. 85, 175, 589, 636, 779, 932, 960, 1041 and 1681, the Republicans have a request for a public vote before me. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u107	The Government is obviously against the deletion of article 14, which is a very important article. We must continue to work on it, enriching it so that it better meets the objective of avoiding any commercial incentive to use plant protection products inappropriately, and such incentives may also be conducive to their sale. We do so for public health reasons and to protect our environment. Decreasing their use is essential. I'll take an example: the Ecoantibio plan. This was a plan that, a few years ago, reduced the consumption of antibiotics for animal use by 37% in five years, while the initial target was 25%. It was the entire profession that had significantly reduced its use. The decline had even reached 80% in three years for critical antibiotics. And it had been found that the animals were no more ill and that breeding techniques had improved considerably.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u108	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u109	It is thanks to the work of veterinarians and herders that the Ecoantibio Plan has been a success and that it honours France within the European Union. This is an example to follow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u111	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u112	Sometimes I have a little twisted mind, Madam President. I was thinking that we have all exchanged a lot over the last few days about how we can transform – at a rate that is sometimes different depending on the groups, but ultimately with the same objectives – our agricultural model so that it is more virtuous in terms of health and the protection of farmers themselves, and more cautious in terms of the planet. That is the meaning of our current debate on plant health products. And I realized that I forgot to talk about Norman camembert! I want to make up for this injustice – in addition, it's Normandy week in the House, we're going to talk about it in all our restaurants, and obviously we had to find a window to talk about the Camembert. For there is a topicality on the issue, at this very moment when we are debating this important transformation of the agricultural sector that the Government wishes. Like many of our citizens and elected officials, I want to alert the Assembly about the recent decision of the National Institute of Origin and Quality – INAO. The name "Made in Normandy", that is to say at home, Minister, does not certify any local or even French origin of the milks used, and does not really protect Norman cheese. Today, as we know, only the PDO "Camembert de Normandie" attests to the origin of milk. Unfortunately, this protection, this guarantee of the know-how of which we are proud in Normandy, has just fallen with the decision of the INAO to implement, from 2021, an AOP "Camembert de Normandie" giving the name for cheeses made from pasteurized milk and without criteria of origin. This decision brings down everything we're looking for here! In the next two years, with a great deal of marketing and interesting advertising, milk manufacturers will be able to use a name that, until then, was based on a specification that was the pride of the Normans. This decision could, if we allow it, Minister, ultimately condemn the French craft sector, particularly Norman. It can only be seen, at a time when national representation is debating the distribution of value in the agricultural and food field, that this OPA on PDO is a real confiscation of value by the wholesalers to the detriment of the small ones. That is the meaning of my inquiry. I recognize that I have the spirit of the stairs, and that it is not fully connected to our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u113	She's not at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u114	But it is connected to the objectives of the law. And I wanted to ask you, Minister, who are Normans like me, how you will help the Camembert to remain the pride of France, especially Normandy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u116	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 85, 175, 589, 636, 779, 932, 960, 1041 and 1681.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u117	I have before me several amendments, Nos 1875, 1972, 431, 524, 1064, 1379, 1973 and 1646, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1875 and 1972, on the one hand, and 1064, 1379 and 1973, on the other, are identical. Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 1875.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u118	My amendment is intended to rewrite a part of the article, in particular to refer to the existing terminology for rebates, rebates and rebates by replacing the words "price reductions" in section L. 441-6 of the Commercial Code referred to in section 14 of the bill. It also aims to limit the scope of prohibited price reductions in the light of the stated objective of avoiding trade incentives. Finally, it excludes the immediate application of the new prohibition as it would constitute a legal uncertainty for ongoing contractual relations, especially in a context in which this provision could apply in relations between French operators and foreign operators to which French law would not be enforceable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u119	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1972.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u120	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u121	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 431.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u122	This Article introduces three new articles into the Rural and Maritime Fisheries Code, providing for the prohibition of discounts, rebates and rebates on plant protection products other than biocontrol products in particular, extending this prohibition to the sale or purchase of any other range of products which would be linked to the purchase of plant protection products and laying down penalties for both responsible natural persons and legal persons. In particular, the proposed amendment seeks to refer to the terminology in force concerning discounts, rebates and rebates, by using the formula "price reductions" as set out in Article L. 441-6 of the Commercial Code, to which Article 14 of the draft law refers, to limit the scope of the prohibited price reductions in view of the stated objective of avoiding commercial incentives, and finally to exclude the immediate application of the new prohibition, which would create, in our view, legal uncertainty for the contractual relations under way, especially in the context of the relations between French operators and foreign operators to which French law would not be enforceable. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u123	You have the floor, my colleague, to support Amendment No 524.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u124	It was tabled by M'jid El Guerrab, who was deprived of a vote because, as he was not registered, he no longer had time to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u125	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u126	[[Mr. El Guerrab applauds]] It is intended to clarify the scope of the provision to explicitly prohibit any price reduction based on the quantities purchased. It also excludes any trade agreement in force on the date of application of the scheme, as suggested by the impact assessment of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u127	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1064, 1379 and 1973. I call Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau to support Amendment No. 1064.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u128	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u129	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 1379.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u130	This amendment by Julien Dive proposes to amend the first two sentences of paragraph 4. Its purpose is precisely to identify cases where the prohibition of rebates, rebates and rebates applies. It also aims to better align these prohibitions with the differentiation of general and particular conditions of sale on plant protection products and other biocontrol products. In fact, the amendment clarifies the scope of these prohibitions with regard to the stated objective of avoiding commercial incentives that may lead to inappropriate use of plant protection products. In order to bring the draft law into line with this political objective, it seems necessary to clarify that the prohibition applies to price reductions on the one hand, and to the differentiation of general and special conditions of sale on the other, only insofar as they are based on the volumes, purchase amounts and market shares of plant protection products. The wording of Article 14 cannot lead to the prohibition of any form of price reduction or treatment differing on the part of sellers without distinction, regardless of the continuous improvement efforts of purchasers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u131	I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 1973.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u132	This amendment clarifies the scope of prohibition in the light of the stated objective of avoiding trade incentives that may lead to inappropriate use of plant protection products. In order to bring the draft law into line with this political objective, it is therefore necessary to specify that the prohibition applies to price reductions, discounts, rebates or rebates, on the one hand, and to the differentiation of general and special conditions of sale, on the other hand, only if they are based on the volumes, purchase amounts or market shares of plant protection products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u133	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u134	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1646.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u135	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u136	What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u137	Article 14 prohibits discounts, rebates or rebates, i.e. the "3 Rs", as well as the differentiation of the general conditions of sale: the way in which the various amendments are drafted leads to the clarification of the second point, but by effectively deleting the provisions on the 3 Rs, which would therefore remain authorised. This deprives article 14 of its full interest. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u138	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u139	With regard to the amendments to restrict the scope of Article 14, I would point out that the latter is identical to the one adopted under the future law on agriculture, food and forestry with regard to veterinary medicinal products. I mentioned this earlier: this provision has contributed to the success of the Ecoantibio plan. The prohibitions provided for in this Article are absolutely essential in order not to incite the sale of plant protection products. These amendments would effectively exclude these prohibitions from the rear margins which do not concern the original price. However, these practices may indirectly have impacts similar to price reductions. The other amendments, which reformulate the article, clarify what is actually targeted, i.e. business practices leading to greater volume purchases. In this regard, the Government has requested expertise from an inter-ministerial mission that will report its findings in the coming days. If necessary, the Government will propose a subsequent amendment on this subject. In this context, I propose that the authors withdraw their amendments. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u140	[[Smile]] What about the Camembert, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u141	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u142	First of all, I am a little surprised by the use of the word 'prohibition', which seems to me frankly out of step with the purpose we pursue. This is not a prohibition: the Ecoantibio 2012-2017 plan, which no one questions in the world of livestock farming and which was put in place in the dialogue with the veterinary world, is a French success that is now a school. During these five years, no one has dared to talk about prohibition! We have to keep it right. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] Moreover, I know very well, for having frequented him for several years – in complete freedom, with respect for what his actors are but at a good distance – the world of phytopharmacy, which was able to inspire these amendments. In recent years, however, their argument was based on the fact that their products are medicines, not chemicals. Can you imagine promotions on drugs? That's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u143	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u144	Mr Viala, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u145	Mr Minister, if I have understood your opinion on the amendments to reformulate the article, you understand the need and the merits, but do you wish to postpone the adoption of an amendment? Why don't you do it right now?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u146	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u147	As I was telling you, a mission dealing with this issue is under way. It will provide us with its findings in late June, that is, during the shuttle. The Government would then propose an appropriate amendment. That is why I have asked for the amendments on this particular aspect to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u148	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u149	Minister, I will withdraw my amendment, which will also allow me to follow Dominique Potier's excellent argument, which is not only a good farmer but also operates land in my constituency. There's a lot of bees in our house, so everything's fine! I also withdraw Amendment No 524.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u150	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u151	Mr Minister, I understand your answer, but to the extent that these amendments reduce the scope of Article 14 and that you have some uncertainty about the conclusions of the report which will be submitted to you in a few days' time, why not adopt today the minimum wording, even if, in the shuttle, it is then to increase, rather than do the opposite?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u152	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u153	I don't want to diminish the scope of Article 14! I await the results of the mission in order to be able to propose the appropriate amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u154	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u155	Mr Dominique Potier, our debates are being heard live. Contrary to what you have just indicated, I assure you that in some cases pharmacists do promotions on certain drugs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u156	Parapharmacy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u157	I could even give the names of the medicines involved! But I'm gonna shut up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u158	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1974 and 2530. Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier, to support Amendment No. 1974.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u159	Its purpose is to exclude from the scope of the prohibition horizontal sales between industrialists within the meaning of the guidelines on the applicability of Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to horizontal cooperation agreements issued by the European Commission. As these guidelines show, these horizontal agreements are ways for industry to pool know-how, improve product quality and diversity, increase investment, particularly in research and development of biocontrol products, and accelerate innovation in the market, in the interest of sustainable agriculture. Finally, these horizontal sales between manufacturers do not concern sales of plant protection products to the end-user of these products made by distributors. Therefore, this derogation does not affect the objective of Article 14 to reduce the use of plant protection products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u160	I call Mr Turquois to support Amendment No. 2530.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u161	The problem of horizontal sales may need to be explained. Our country has a number of chemist groups which produce plant protection products in particular and which exchange a number of constituents with each other. This is a form of trade dynamic: in order to sell products in France, the very ones covered by the ban on discounts, rebates and rebates that we have just voted on, as well as abroad, it seems to me that these companies should be able to continue to practice these 3 Rs on the products they exchange in order to form final products. There would still be no discount on final products. I am therefore in favour of this horizontal business activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u163	As you have just pointed out, my colleague, horizontal agreements between industrialists allow for the pooling of know-how, increased investment in research and development and faster introduction of innovations on the market, in the interest of sustainable agriculture. I do not see how the ban on 3 Rs would affect them under horizontal agreements. Rather, these amendments may be interpreted as a strong limitation of the bans on the 3 Rs. Opinion therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u165	The Government does not wish to prevent horizontal cooperation agreements within the meaning of Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. However, the term "horizontal sale" covers a variety of commercial practices. It is not exactly the term that is used at European level. As I mentioned earlier, on the basis of the report we expect from the interdepartmental mission, we will propose the necessary adjustments during the shuttle. The Government is therefore opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u166	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u167	If there is still to be progress in thinking, I shall withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u168	Mr. Morel - To the Hussier?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u169	I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u170	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor to support Amendment No. 1230.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u171	It's complicated. We all agree, anyway, to effectively remove the 3 Rs on these products. The majority of farmers are aware of this need. Many of them have come a long way on this issue. It is a minority that must be accompanied today. I am firmly convinced that it is better to supervise rather than ban it altogether. When we all make purchases, we take into account the balances. In the dead season, there are opportunities to buy cheaper products. That's not why we buy more. I only buy what I need, in sufficient quantity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u172	It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u173	As has been said by the minister himself, no one is buying today more than he needs. We want to give back purchasing power to farmers; This was the subject of Article 1e of the renovation of the contract with a view to enabling them to fix their own prices. Today, let us also allow them to buy plant protection products at lower prices during periods of dead-season – but only those they need. Let us take responsibility for them, let us trust them and stop pointing at them as if they were polluters: this concerns only a minority. My amendment is therefore intended to maintain discounts on plant protection products in the same way as sales during the same period.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u175	The aim of this amendment is to organise two months of sales in December and January on plant protection products. I have heard your arguments, Mrs Verdier-Jouclas, but, particularly with regard to fungicides, it is not necessarily the most appropriate strategy to adapt the quantities according to climate and buy in the same season. It is well known what interest it is for plant protection dealers to place some of their products. Unfavorable opinion: such a measure would be contrary to the spirit of article 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u176	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u177	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u178	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u179	Those who make profits with the sales of such products are the firms! For farmers, it's always more expensive. When there are discounts in periods of death-season, the firms catch up on the rest. I think we should keep the current wording of the article. Let us remember that every time a farmer is forced to use fewer plant protection products – and that is the very purpose of this text – this will, in almost all cases, improve the profitability of his farm and its productivity. This has been seen on hundreds of "Dephy" farms, which have achieved remarkable results: after a 30% reduction in the use of plant protection products, farms have maintained the same profitability in 95% of the cases; This was confirmed during the mission hearings on the use of plant protection products. We need to speed up the movement. Discounts in periods of death-season benefit only one type of actor: the firms that sell these products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u180	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u181	I would like to register falsely against what has just been said. A Dephy farm is a place where you learn how to use products better, how to apply them better and how to perform better. There is a need to invest in training farmers; On this point, we agree. We must make sure that the conditions under which they treat crops improve – because, and I would like to draw the attention of many colleagues to this point, they are currently deplorable – and that they know how to identify the pest or the inventiveness so that they can use the right product and use the right dose. All this is a matter of training. On the other hand, let's stop caricature by saying that firms want to make profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u182	You're right, it's caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u183	Every firm wants to make profits, it's in the order of things! So far we have had balanced debates: let us not give in to the oppositions in black and white. We need to train our farmers, we need to make them aware of the use of these products, we need to reduce the doses used. In this area, there are real margins of progress, that's true – but this is called training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u184	And poison, it's called poison!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u185	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u186	To go back to what Matthieu Orphelin said, if there is a sample that cannot be suspect, it is the one that was formed by InVivo, the development subsidiary of Coop de France and that includes several hundred of the 2000 Dephy farms. For this sample, the results are unwarranted: not only has the profitability of farms been maintained and the dependence on plant protection products been significantly reduced, in line with the target of 20% in the period, but productivity has also been maintained. And this is important: we are not talking about landscape agriculture, maintenance and romanticism! We know that beyond 25% reduction, there is a balancing issue between the food challenge, the energy challenge and the environmental challenge and that this leads to complicated arbitrations. But below it is a fight against waste – it is almost the same for food waste. It's just a paradigm shift: everyone will win. The Dephy farms are the living laboratory of the French farm, the living laboratory of innovation, so that we have decided to increase from 2000 to 3000 entities and that, thanks to the support of the network of chambers of agriculture, each of them will deploy on ten farms. I am delighted that this experience continues. If 30,000 farms are involved in the agro-ecological transition, we will have transformed agriculture: one for seven, it is the same relationship that, in the sixties and seventies, allowed the old Ferme France to be transformed into the modern farm of today. Well, we will reach the new modernity when one out of seven farmers using plant protection products embarks on this threefold economic, social and environmental transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u187	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u188	Dephy farms, we also have them in our department. If it works, it's because our farmers are motivated and they want to go.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u189	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u190	I repeat: the aim of the amendment is to empower farmers. It is not true that farmers use these products wrongly and through. It's just a minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u191	We said it, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u192	The majority of them are aware, using them less and less, participating in Dephy farms and doing everything they need to start the transition. Their purchasing power should not be diminished, while on the other hand they are said to want to increase it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u193	We agree with you, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u194	I just wanted to make that point. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u195	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2246.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u196	This important amendment aims to give the services of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention the powers to monitor compliance with the provisions which we will introduce through Article 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u197	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 93 and 586, on the additional article after Article 14. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 93.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u198	Through this amendment, we propose to assess the impact of the measures contained in Articles 1 to 14 of this text and to entrust this evaluation to the Monitoring Centre for the formation of food prices and margins. It would be presented to Parliament on the occasion of the submission of its annual report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u199	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 586.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u200	This amendment is identical to the one which has just been excellently defended by my colleague Descoeur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u202	As much as the Centre's intervention is justified for certain articles, I do not see the relevance of asking it to assess measures relating to animal welfare or the use of plant protection products. It is up to Parliament to evaluate the laws it passes. Unfavorable opinion – but I am in favour of Parliament evaluating them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u203	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u204	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u205	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u206	Mr rapporteur, if we ask for such a report, we would like the Observatory to assess the economic impact of measures relating to animal welfare and the use of plant protection products. It's a different angle than the one you're considering. It would be a shame not to do so, because, as far as the competitiveness of agriculture is concerned, it is an essential indicator if we are to measure the weight of the constraints imposed on our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u207	Parliament can do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u208	Mr Dino Cinieri, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u209	Article 14 bis prohibits the self-service sale of the categories of biocidal products of greatest concern, the precise list of which will be drawn up by the Ministry. It also provides for the prohibition of advertising for these same categories of products, as well as certain commercial practices, such as the delivery of free units, for all biocidal products. Under this name are grouped many products of everyday life such as insecticides, hand disinfectants or antifouling paints, now on over-the-counter sale in France. Could you tell us, minister, what product lines will no longer be available for free access? Will this concern, for example, anti-poux products?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u210	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2400.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u211	The measures provided for in this Article will make it possible to better regulate the availability of biocidal products, in accordance with the Community objectives, regularly recalled by the French authorities, of restricting the use of products intended to combat pests to the proper extent necessary. The Government proposes to establish by decree a list of categories of products whose sale may no longer be authorized on a self-service or advertising basis to the general public, so that this is not ambiguous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u212	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 313.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u213	It's forbidden, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u214	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1648 and 1975. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1648.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u215	It's forbidden, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u216	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 1975.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u217	He too is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u218	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor to support Amendment No. 1231.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u219	This is the same proposal as I made on plant health products, applied to biocides. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u220	I have before me identical amendments, Nos 1272, 1649 and 1976, which are the subject of a sub-amendment No 2717 by the rapporteur. Amendment No 1272 is not being defended. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1649.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u221	It's forbidden, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u222	Since we're gagged!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u223	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 1976.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u224	Also defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u225	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor to give the committee's opinion on the identical amendments and to support sub-amendment No. 2717.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u226	These are coordination amendments aimed at aligning the entry into force of Article 14a with that of Article 14. The purpose of the sub-amendment is to clarify that the deadline is from publication, not from the enactment of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u228	Favourable to the sub-amendment and the amendments thus amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u229	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 2301 on the additional Rule after Rule 14a.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u230	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u231	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u232	This Article provides for the recognition of low concern natural preparations and the authorisation of the use of any natural substance for the use of biostimulant produced from consumable parts of plants used in animal and human nutrition. In the future law for agriculture, food and forestry, I had already intervened on this subject. Technically and in practice, these preparations are part of gardeners' tricks that do not involve chemistry. Natural preparations of little concern have long been used outside any legal framework. Section 36 of the Water and Aquatic Environments Act 2006 brought an end to legal instability by enshrining PNPPs and providing for a derogatory marketing procedure. However, under the implementing decree published in 2009, PNPs are considered to be plant protection products, and therefore require a simplified marketing authorisation, while their substances must be included in the list of authorised substances. This legal framework is a real obstacle to their use, which, however, can only be virtuous and contribute to the achievement of the objectives of limiting plant protection products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u233	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u234	Section 14 ter may be an interesting innovation, but it calls for two questions, Minister. First, this article seeks to solve the difficulty of classifying natural substances in the typology of European regulations. Good if a solution is found. On the other hand, the article provides that plants are allowed. They are therefore exempt from monitoring or verification by ANSES, if I understand correctly. There is no longer any public scrutiny or scientific expertise on this issue. Secondly, Mr Minister, can you assure us that Article 14b is compatible with European rules on plant protection products?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u235	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u236	In response to Mr. Herth, the Government had tabled an amendment to delete the article, which it had withdrawn. Currently, these substances are authorized after a simplified risk assessment by ANSES to verify safety for human health and the environment. Article 14b was intended to remove the health and environmental assessment prior to the authorisation of the use of consumable parts of plants used as biostimulating substances. The use of high-dose or concentrated forms to consumable parts of plants, whether or not used for food, may not be safe for human and animal health, as well as for the environment. Several applications for authorisation were rejected because the assessment had identified risks when plants were used in certain forms. For example, rhubarb is commonly consumed but its leaves are toxic at high doses. It is therefore not possible to put the leaves in a composter to destroy them. The Government wants to develop alternative methods – biostimulants, basic substances and biocontrol – by facilitating their authorisation. This is explicitly reflected in the road map. Working groups reflect on these issues. But we need to ensure the safety of certain substances. We have withdrawn our amendment in order to take the time to rework it and to distinguish between parts of plants that may be problematic and those that should be promoted. I wanted to answer you precisely and factually, Mr. Herth. I would also like to reply to Sébastien Jumel, although it has only a distant connection with our discussion. The Normand that I am cannot give him a Norman answer on this subject, especially since it will also interest those in this House who appreciate the Camembert as well as my Norman colleagues, Jérôme Nury and Bertrand Bouyx – we each represent a department of Normandy. And I forgot Christophe Bouillon! A battle has been fought for years between the "camembert de Normandie" and the "made in Normandy" camembert. The INAO has found a solution to put an end to the war that was waged by the manufacturers of so-called industrial camemberts, pasteurized, and those who produce a camembert with milk coming from pastures and Norman meadows, in PDO – protected designation of origin – or in AOC – controlled designation of origin –, in short of raw milk cheeses moulded with ladle. These tensions have been a source of deception for the consumer for years. I think it was necessary to put an end to this duality. I proposed, as I said in a television show a few days ago, that a special mention could be placed on the true Camemberts, i.e. those which are in raw milk and moulded with ladle, so that the consumer can buy with full knowledge of the matter. In any event, I wanted to commend the work done by INAO because the problem has been going on for too many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u237	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u238	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u239	I have asked you, Mr. Minister, in section 14 about unconcerned natural preparations by alerting you to the setback of your deletion amendment. You do not help the emergence of alternatives such as PNPs. The evaluation has already been done...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u240	The amendment has been withdrawn!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u241	It's a very good thing, and thank you. It's a step forward – I recognize them when there are, minister, I don't make a language of wood!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u242	I know it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u243	I hope that this will allow the PNPs to take the place they deserve in the alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u244	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u245	The PNPs were a parliamentary passion of the last legislature. There was the school that considered that since these products were natural, all the rules could be violated, and the one that wanted to establish an impassable normative wall. We have to think about what has already been done. Biocontrol benefits from a line cut for instructions by ANSES. So as soon as an alternative, non-chemical, traditional solution emerges, it is evaluated by the ANSES to which budgetary and human resources have been allocated to deal with technological innovation in this field. PNPs are sometimes exploited with little profit by small operators who are not large multinationals of chemistry. The solution that had been found, Mr.Minister, was to bring together the pending applications and to unblock an innovation budget – whether from French or European funds, whatever – to deal with this package of cases and not to let them drag forever. If we succeed in unlocking, in the forthcoming budgetary debate, a sum intended to settle the outstanding PNPP cases today, which are not financially supported by the project promoters due to lack of economic strength, we would put an end to much of the controversy. In an amendment which will be discussed later, I propose a third way: the separation of commercial approval and toxicity certification. It is said that rhubarb can be dangerous if you eat it all over the weekend. Be careful, all the more it's the season!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u246	Leaves only!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u247	There's no problem with the stem!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u248	The precautionary principle on natural substances can be applied. But their commercial effectiveness, as it appears on the label, seems to me to be less at stake. To accelerate the emergence of new solutions in plant technology, I will therefore propose – and I know the strong resistance of your services, Minister – to allow the placing on the market of products whose non-toxicity has been verified but whose commercial effectiveness has not been fully calibrated. It is a path of acceleration that I propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u249	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u250	I'm surprised. Maybe out of ignorance? For me, in the rhubarb, we only eat the stems, not the leaves!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u251	My place is the same...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u252	Let's go over this culinary detail. Unlike Mr Prud'homme, who seems to have understood what happened, I can't follow. What does the Government propose for this article?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u253	There is no more amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u254	Good. However, I have to confess my ignorance about products of little concern: can you enlighten me on biocontrol techniques? A few years ago, the use of aphid beetles was allowed. Except that they were Chinese ladybugs and that today they invade us – we can easily spot them because they spend the winter. Are there specific procedures for these methods that appear to be common sense but that bring new pests, insects that supplant our traditional species into our territory? I'm campaigning for the defense of the traditional ladybug. Maybe I'll start an association on the subject...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u255	We come to several amendments with additional articles after Article 14b. I have before me two amendments, Nos 2210 and 218, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 2210.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u256	[[Smile]] This is the second time you've confused me with Mr. Chassaigne, Madam President. I'm gonna let myself grow the mustache! European Directive 66/ 402/EEC of 14 June 1966 on the marketing of cereal seed authorises the marketing of cereals in the form of different varieties. However, France is committed to the principle of prohibiting the marketing of seed mixtures, although the use of such mixtures may be of interest in terms of input use or yield. In order to promote the cultivation of mixtures, this amendment seeks to remove the obstacle which is now forcing farmers who wish to practice it to make their own mixtures. We therefore propose to include explicitly in the law the possibility of marketing seeds in the form of blends of varieties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u257	Mr Antoine Herth, in support of Amendment No. 218, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u258	I had already proposed this amendment in committee. I note that I have made some progress, as I have managed to convince Mr Chassaigne and his colleagues to table a similar amendment; It's a first step! The rapporteur replied that seed could already be marketed in the form of blends of varieties. But I have checked, and that is not the case. That is why I am presenting this amendment again. Premixed seeds, especially for large grain crops, must be available. Why? Simply because, in conventional agriculture, most cereals are treated with products, including insecticides or repellents. In this regard, I open a parenthesis: the main repellent used, especially to prevent crows from eating seeds, is anthraquinone. However, this substance is naturally found in rhubarb – this is precisely the problem that you mentioned earlier, Minister. It happens, and I will shortly submit a dossier to you on this subject, that when producers make blends of organic teas with berries, fruits or other plants and in particular rhubarb, their teas can no longer be recognized as organic because the analyses mention traces of anthraquinone – this one being naturally present in plants. This difficulty is not dealt with in French regulations, whereas it is dealt with in German regulations, hence the fact that the Germans are now in the process of imposing themselves on the tea market, in particular for these products and for smoked tea. No more than one gram of smoked tea can be imported into France for this reason: everything goes through the port of Hamburg! I'm coming back to the cereals. The problem is that when farmers want to mix grain, they do it at the bottom of the yard in a concrete mixer and take a full picture of it. And why are they mixing cereal? Because this reduces the use of fungicides. I propose that a signal be given by clearly indicating in the regulations that the marketing of mixtures is possible, even if you then adjust the shot by order, Minister. In any case, it is a complex exercise: if you produce milling wheat, for example, the varieties you mix must have milling characteristics adapted to the market. It is therefore necessary to reason at the level of the whole sector. In my view, a regulatory framework would be most desirable in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u259	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u260	I myself mix wheat and triticale in a concrete mixer, and I confirm that it is not actually very pleasant. In order to take account of the agronomic value of certain mixtures, the law already provides for derogations, particularly in certain grasslands. In other words, seed mixtures are not prohibited from marketing if this is within the framework defined at European level. For example, the Directive of 30 August 2010 introducing certain derogations for the marketing of mixtures of fodder plant seed intended for the preservation of the natural environment allows Member States to provide for specific authorisation procedures for seed mixtures for preservation purposes. The marketing of these mixtures is therefore already possible. It is regulated by decrees of 14 December 2011 concerning mixtures of fodder seeds. The amendments we are considering go much further: they aim to allow all seed mixtures to be marketed, which would put us outside the EU's derogation law, in which our rules are based. So I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u262	Disadvantaged too. In addition to what the rapporteur has just said, health or property rights issues may arise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u263	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u264	I support Antoine Herth's initiative, relayed by the GDR Group. Without entering into too much technical debate, seed mixtures offer solutions, for example for rapeseed, whose place we defend in the production of energy and as a source of protein for animal feed. The producers of rapeseed have made enormous progress in the control of phytopharmaceuticals, thanks in particular to the use of mixtures of early varieties – the meligeths attacking the few early flowering plants, thus saving an insecticide. This proposal on mixtures – which certainly pose a rather complex practical problem: to incorporate a small bag into a large bag... – was included in the mission's report on the Ecophyto 2 plan. More broadly, varietal mixtures, especially meslins, promise us great progress in agronomy, at least as important as advances in mechanics. The INRA and the Plant Institute constantly demonstrate this. Tomorrow we will have high-performance blends. In the absence of a vote on this amendment, perhaps it is necessary, Mr Minister, for France to plead for more derogations, because agroecology depends in part on the granting of facilities of this nature to farmers who wish to work in the right direction. It's about making life easier for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u265	In conclusion, we must vote on it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u266	It was just right! It would have been worth counting again, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u267	I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that was unambiguous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u268	I have before me five amendments, Nos 2211, 965, 1447, 2028 and 2101, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 965, 1447, 2028 and 2101 are identical. I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 2211.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u269	You didn't dare mix the votes, Madam Chair, and yet it was fair! I'm kidding... I trust your discernment. With this amendment, we are resuming a debate that began under the previous legislature with the bill for the recovery of biodiversity, nature and landscapes. Parliament then sought to remove obstacles to the exchange of seeds of old peasant varieties belonging to the public domain. It had hoped that these varieties, when intended for non-professional users, could be freely exchanged without requiring their prior entry in the catalogue which was intended to list all the seeds. As a follow-up to these provisions, the aim of this amendment is to restore, in accordance with the wishes of the legislator, the possibility of the sale of varieties of seeds in the public domain for rent and intended for amateur gardeners. As you have understood, the challenge is to facilitate the conservation and dissemination of old varieties in order to preserve agricultural biodiversity, which is in some way linked to our identity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u271	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, supports Amendment No. 965.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u272	This amendment was adopted by the Committee on Sustainable Development but rejected by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Article 11 of the Act for the Recovery of Biodiversity, Nature and Landscapes amended Article L. 661-8 of the Rural and Maritime Code in order to exempt the transfer, supply or transfer of seed and reproductive material of plants of cultivated species of varieties belonging to the public domain from compliance with the rules laid down in that regard by a decree of the Council of State, in the event that the transfer is made free of charge or to non-professional end-users not directed at commercial exploitation of the variety. Article 11 also provided that this derogation applied to the sale for consideration where it was carried out by an association governed by the Law of 1901. In its decision of 4 August 2016, the Constitutional Council validated the first provision, but declared the second unconstitutional on the ground that it infringed the principle of equality before the law, in so far as there was no need to benefit associations Law 1901 over other bodies. [["Very good! » on the benches of the GDR group]] We therefore propose, by this amendment, to reintroduce the exemption for disposals for consideration without any restriction. This measure aims to promote the marketing of seeds for amateur gardeners. This would significantly improve the conservation, dissemination and enrichment of agricultural biodiversity by artisans, seeders and amateur gardeners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u273	On Amendment No 2211, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u274	On the same amendments, too, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u275	No, all the other amendments are under joint discussion, but not identical, Mr Jumel. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1447.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u276	It's forbidden, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u277	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 2028.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u278	We are taking up an amendment which was voted on by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning but rejected by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The aim is to restore the possibility of the sale of varieties of seeds in the public domain and intended for amateur gardeners on a cost-effective basis. Gardeners play a crucial role in the conservation, dissemination and enrichment of agricultural biodiversity, which is a major challenge for agriculture and food in the 21st century. Indeed, 90 per cent of the varieties traditionally used by farmers have ceased to be cultivated in the space of a century, and 75 per cent of them are irreversibly lost. This amendment is part of a broader fight for the free use of seeds and for the preservation of biodiversity. It should also be noted that a victory has just been won in this respect: the European Parliament voted to authorise the marketing of peasant seeds by organic farmers in January 2021. The aim is to re-establish the possibility of engaging in trade for consideration, without reserving it to a particular category of operators. We want gardeners to have access to a greater variety of seeds, especially varieties that have been banned from marketing through the system of the official GNIS catalogue – Interprofessional National Grouping of Seeds and Plants. This ban led the French courts to condemn associations of gardeners who traded forgotten varieties. It is about safeguarding a genetic heritage that we will be happy to benefit from in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u279	I call Mrs Pompili to support Amendment No. 2101.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u280	This amendment is of particular interest to me, as it was voted in the context of the Biodiversity Recovery Bill when I was Secretary of State for Biodiversity. It aims at finally equipping us with real tools so that we do not lose all our agricultural biodiversity, especially in the field of fruit and vegetables. The figures have been recalled, in particular by FAO, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations: we have lost 75-80% of the varieties traditionally used by farmers. Some are not yet permanently lost, but if we continue to stick only to the very small number of varieties currently listed in the official catalogue – this is due to reasons related to standardization, size, taste and others – we will lose everything that has made our wealth for years. Today, there is a European directive on conservation varieties. So you might think everything's fine and the work is done. However, like all European law – which justifies my strong differences with the Ministry on the assessment of this right – the directive is limited to seeds grown for commercial exploitation. The amendment deals with seeds grown for non-commercial exploitation. The directive allows only a very small number of old and local varieties to be preserved. Only eleven varieties are listed in France in this category: nine varieties of potatoes, one of turnips and one of maize. That's ridiculous! At European level, there are only seventy-one varieties, an average of two and a half varieties per Member State. We cannot continue to lose our biodiversity. Today, amateur gardeners do an extraordinary job, because it escapes the constraints of commercial exploitation and the obligation of profitability. They have collected more or less extensive collections that are our memory, but a memory maintained in the living, which in no way resembles a bank. The Law for the Reconquest of Biodiversity, Nature and Landscapes has given them the opportunity to engage in cheap exchanges. It is essential that we give them the opportunity to do so for the same reason. This simply means that they will be able to exchange small bags of seeds – never to farmers, because it is forbidden – so that they can go back to their own expense. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, as well as on the benches of the GDR and NG groups]] Such a measure mainly concerns associations, whose difficulty in financing them is known. Let us help them to do so and to continue a crucial public interest work at a time when, in our country and elsewhere, we are losing biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u281	On Amendments Nos 965, 1447, 2028 and 2101, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u282	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u283	The meeting was resumed. Mr rapporteur, what is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 2211 and on identical amendments Nos 965, 1447, 2028 and 2101, which were defended before the sitting was suspended?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u284	I express an unfavorable opinion, for reasons that I leave to the minister to explain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u286	Unfavorable opinion. The measure would be incompatible with the obligations laid down in European legislation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u287	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u288	... which prohibits the marketing, therefore, of seed which is not listed in the catalogue of certain Member States.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u289	It's clean!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u290	We must take into account the risks of unlisted and undeveloped varieties, which may be a problem for marketing. On the other hand, old varieties already benefit from adapted provisions, allowing them to be included in the official catalogue of species and varieties. We would like the varieties that exist to be seized, which would satisfy the authors of the amendments. It is now apparent that those listed in the catalogue are not sufficiently taken into account by users. Communication work is therefore required to make them known.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u291	It's called a touchdown!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u292	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u293	I regret that the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs has not explained the nature of his divergence with the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development, who supported Amendment No 965. It is quite rare for two commissions of the same majority to rule differently. This shows that there is a substantive debate in this case. I wonder about the impact of the proposed measure. Are the gardeners we're talking about cultivating large volumes? Would the adoption of the amendments alter the economic conditions of the sector? In fact, should we really talk about "marketing" – a term that suggests the idea of selling in a commercial distribution system – when we exchange seeds even for a fee? For all these reasons, I think that at the legal level, the argument developed by the minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u294	...don't hold!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u295	...maybe calling for further analysis. In short, the proposed solution seems to be a common sense, but we lack elements of economic analysis to understand what is behind it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u296	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u297	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on a few benches of the LR group]] If you had attended all the debates, you would have noticed that most of the time the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Sustainable Development converged. Sometimes, however, we do not agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u298	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u299	Let me bring to your knowledge some elements to inform the debate and explain why we are in this situation, since I do not have an absolute opinion on the subject. I would point out that my farm is entirely oriented towards the production of cereal, maize and vegetable seeds. There is a specific regulation because, for a given variety, a given trade name must correspond to a specific definition. A heart-of-beef tomato seed will give different varieties, different plants depending on whether you bought it from the Touraine or Bouches-du-Rhône. Both will be large tomatoes, but the plants will be dissimilar. In France, in Europe, a variety name must correspond to a plant with roughly stable definitions. That is the bias. The vernacular names used in different regions do not correspond to the same realities, which explains the regulation. That being said, I hear the request of my neighbours, who want to be able to exchange – which is already possible – and buy so-called old varieties. This is the issue of regulation. If we are left with exchanges and purchases between individuals, between gardeners, I don't really see the problem. But some approaches are commercially much more aggressive. On a market to which I went a fortnight ago were sold old seeds of quinoa, which are known to be difficult to find, given the recent nature of the plant's establishment in France. I wanted to remind you of the origin of this regulation on the subject. Either the ministry is able to propose a solution for small quantities, small exchanges, or I will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u300	Mrs. Barbara Pompili has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u301	I hear the comments that have been made. I disagree with the argument that these amendments would be contrary to European legislation. I want a directive to be ambiguous, but the will of the European legislator has always been to exclude non-commercial practices from the legislation. This is the scope of these amendments, which concern this type of practice and apply to small quantities. Again, we do not wish to give farmers the right to sell these seeds on a commercial basis. I hear concerns from some, but I recall that the practices we want to promote have existed in Denmark since 2015. This country presented this mechanism to the European Commission in 2016, and it did not give rise to any difficulties. It is necessary to stop being afraid of everything, to identify problems a priori; The loss of biodiversity, however, is not a fear but a reality. Let's stop veiling our face! We have an excellent tool to preserve our cultivated biodiversity. Let us use it and then control its use, as we do for any product from agri-food and agriculture. It is obvious that controls will have to be carried out on the application of this law. Measures are already provided for in the Biodiversity Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u303	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u304	Indeed, it is in the sense of history that we accept these amendments. A historic decision was taken at European level a few days ago. That being said, I have heard the questions put, in particular, by the rapporteur and the minister. These amendments aim at the exchange of amateur gardeners. I recommend that one of them be adopted today and reworked during the shuttle, so that the distinction with a number of small producers is better established. It would be a strong signal to vote in that direction. The biodiversity crisis is so serious that we must start. The risks seem to me to be very limited. Let's go and rework the arrangement once it's voted, during the shuttle, to reassure everyone. We must act at such a level in the face of the biodiversity crisis that it seems to me better to adopt, even if its current wording is not perfect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u305	Yes, he is. He's perfect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u306	Barbara Pompili's is perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u307	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u308	I also hope that one of these amendments will flourish, as it would be a concrete, useful and legible contribution, an act expressing the shared will to contribute to the preservation of biodiversity. These amendments involve negligible quantities, which will not break the major trade balances. Barbara Pompili, with her expertise, has just explained to us that this provision was not contrary to European regulations, as the example of Denmark shows. Minister, if we are not in a position to preserve the state's share of sovereignty over a subject such as this, namely the preservation of biodiversity and old seeds, in what area will we preserve it? If we give up any element of our identity and sovereignty, we send out a very negative political signal, we show the collapse, the weakening of the French state. You took time to talk to each other, which I think is pretty healthy in a democracy, but that shouldn't take away your sense of humor, Mr.President Lescure – I just wondered if the white smoke had come out. I hoped that this would be the case and that a consensus would be reached that would enable us to advance the general interest, which is the objective sought.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u309	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u310	Amateur gardeners constantly exchange seeds. You have to be really twisted or be part of a very vertical administration to think about allowing the exchange of seeds between amateurs, which has just taken place. If some want to sell seeds, we are not going to build a national, world-wide organization of amateur gardeners. Seems to me like it's beyond understanding. That is why I will obviously vote for these amendments. If they're not voted, we'll trade together, we'll sell our seeds to amateurs, that's all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u311	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u312	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u313	Gardening is like eating, it's special, it's social.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u315	Gardeners, more and more, exchange their seeds, their practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u316	Especially in the workers' gardens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u317	In rural areas, this creates an additional social link. It goes beyond the simple act of gardening or eating, it is a culture, a knowledge, which we must preserve. President Fesneau is well aware of these issues, as the Loir-et-Cher is home to the farm of Sainte-Marthe. What happened? We bought varieties of tomatoes, supposedly old. We kept a few of them to replant the seeds, and alas, we had to see that the big naughters had sold us hybrids! We could no longer reproduce these cultures ourselves! But what the earth has given, it must be able to reproduce it freely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u319	Long live the sling!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u320	[[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and REM groups, as well as on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups. – Olivier Falorni and Sylvia Pinel also applaud]] What is important is that amateur gardeners are left with this fundamental pleasure. In the General Food States, it was said that it was through education, cooking classes that we were going to make people eat well. The kitchen starts with the product. Let people cook and let them freely exchange what will give good products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u321	He's got the garden feather!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u322	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u323	[[Laughs]] It's always a pleasure to speak after Richard Ramos!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u324	[[Smile]] Get some seed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u325	It's kind of like singing tricks, he arrives as an American star and he takes the artists to his suite. I wanted to tell Mr Aubert – who knows what he's talking about, since he's a judge at the Court of Auditors – that selling in a commercial circuit is legally a marketing. Some of you propose to vote on the amendment and then to rework it, but it is difficult to vote for a provision that is not completely in control; the amendment could remain frozen in the text, without reworking it in accordance with our objectives. I am open to reworking this provision, but I prefer to avoid putting it in the marble, because it could be a problem for us. There is a prohibition on the marketing and certification of seeds which are not admitted to the catalogue of any Member State. To be admitted to the official catalogue, a variety must be "separate, stable and sufficiently homogeneous" to guarantee the buyer a cultural value and use for agricultural productivity purposes. When gardeners exchange seeds, they are transfers free of charge, which have been practiced for years...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u326	Since the dawn of time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u327	...without difficulty. But when you want to organise a trade circuit, things get complicated, because you have to comply with the regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u328	We're talking about amateur gardeners!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u329	According to several Members, the proposed provision would be in line with European legislation, which reserves official application only to transfers made on a commercial holding, i.e. when the seeds are intended for professional farmers. As for Denmark, yes, it has authorised these practices, but without the authorisation of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u330	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u331	It's called courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u332	It doesn't match my way of doing things.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u333	A little resistance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u334	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As a member of the Government, I would like to see compliance with European regulations, which does not prevent us from saying things when we disagree with them. Despite the quality of the debate, I maintain my unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u335	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2211.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u336	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 965, 1447, 2028 and 2101.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u337	Denmark will no longer be alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u338	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2145.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u339	The purpose of this amendment is to avoid the deletion of details on the content of the advertising inserts referred to in the article, in particular the principles of integrated pest management, good practices in the application of plant protection products, and their potential dangers, which are now included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u340	I call Mrs Toutut-Picard to support Amendment No. 2159, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 14c.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u341	Article 7 of the Environmental Charter states that "every person has the right, under the conditions and within the limits defined by law, to access environmental information held by public authorities (...)". A decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 23 November 2016 states that the concept of emissions into the environment includes, inter alia, the release of plant protection products. The Directive of 28 January 2003 on public access to environmental information, which establishes that Member States cannot provide for an application to be rejected when it concerns information on emissions to the environment, applies well to information on the use of plant protection products. Pesticide sales data by department are currently the only data available. As a result, scientists and citizens do not have access to data on the actual use of these products, to which the administration has access through its controls. This amendment calls for the public to make available the data collected by the officers responsible for monitoring the biological surveillance of the territory, and to apply to these data the same transparency as foreseen for a large number of public data by the law of 7 October 2016 for a digital Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u342	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u343	The law already provides that the results of this monitoring are the subject of an annual report by the Government to the National Assembly and the Senate. This seems to me to be a sufficient publicity effort to satisfy your amendment. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u344	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1128.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u345	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u346	I have before me an amendment No 2256, which is the subject of three sub-amendments Nos 2733, 2732 and 2723. The minister has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u347	The aim of this amendment is to enable the administrative authority to take measures to regulate the use of plant protection products in the vicinity of regularly inhabited residences and contiguous areas of approval, i.e. courtyards and gardens. Like what is done by prefectural decree for schools, the aim here is to enable the administrative authority to better protect the residents of areas where plant protection products are used. This approach is complementary to those, voluntary, engaged in certain territories, particularly in the Limousin for apple orchards. This provision is part of the road map to reduce dependence on plant health products. There will be a national scoping to assist prefects in their decision-making.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u348	On sub-amendments Nos 2733 and 2732, which will come under discussion, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Both sub-amendments Nos. 2733 and 2732 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u349	Mr Minister, I hope that Amendment No 2256 is not a mischievous amendment to bring down my Amendment No 2006, which will be considered just after it. I will defend these two sub-amendments with particular seriousness, because the subject requires it. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider my proposals very carefully. Recent public inquiries have highlighted the scandal of pesticides for health. No one can ignore this fact today: endocrine disruptors and carcinogenic, mutagenic, reprotoxic or neurotoxic substances, many pesticides contain these molecules with an extremely negative impact on humans and the environment. It is not I who say it or who invents it, it is INSERM who published a document in 2013. This, which is a landmark, shows the strong link between exposure to these molecules and the risk of developing autistic disorders or fatal diseases, such as Parkinson's or leukemias, to name but a few, the list being very long. These risks affect everyone, but special attention should be paid to exposure of the foetus and children. Agricultural samples showed that these toxic molecules were unfortunately found in children's hair wicks, in the dust of their rooms or in schools. It is thus clear that the protective arrangements provided for in the current legislation are insufficient to preserve the residents of these exposures. It is therefore urgent to act to preserve the health of residents of agricultural areas, by creating a buffer zone, in which any phytosanitary treatment containing active substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic – CMR – or endocrine or neurotoxic disruptors is prohibited. This area will cover a radius of 200 metres around places of life and those that can accommodate the public. This is simply an implementation of the European Framework Directive "For the sustainable use of pesticides", which provides that the use of plant protection products must be restricted or prohibited in certain specific areas and in areas frequented by the general public and vulnerable groups. In these areas, appropriate risk management measures are taken, and the use of low-risk plant protection products and biological control measures must be considered first. I ask you to adopt these two sub-amendments, which will allow you to protect around places that our children frequent, places of residence and accommodation for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – when they are surrounded by agricultural areas. I am not asking for total exclusion from treatment, but we must ban RMCs and endocrine disruptors from these areas. This seems essential to me in order to protect the health of our children, in particular. The issue is so important that you can't look away and say that you can continue to use these products in an irrational way with respect to health issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u350	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 2723.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u351	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u352	Mr rapporteur, what is the opinion of the committee on this amendment and on these sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u353	I am in favour of the adoption of the Government's amendment and against that of the three sub-amendments. The administrative authority may, in the interests of public health or the environment, take any measure of prohibition, restriction or special prescription concerning the placing on the market, the issue, use and possession of plant protection products. It may prohibit or regulate their use in sensitive areas where vulnerable populations live. The fact that the law does not require supervision or prohibition does not mean that the prefects do not. The law recognizes, in the right legal order, the necessary room for manoeuvre that must be given to them in order to assess each situation and not simply to be agents who merely apply the law without thinking. The Government's amendment opens the scope of the prefect's assessment, the latter being free to assess the situation. And that's how it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u354	What is the Government's opinion on the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u355	My view is unfavorable, because their purpose falls within the regulatory area and because each situation has to be examined on a case-by-case basis. Let us agree that with Amendment No 2256 we are moving forward and making an important step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u356	On Amendment No 2256, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u357	I am surprised that the Government is reopening this debate. We have already had it several times in this House and we know the excesses it can generate. If we take the example, which has already been given, of a 300-metre strip, there will no longer be any peri-urban agriculture. However, we have an interest in the existence of peri-urban agriculture, whether in large-scale farming, livestock farming or market gardening, and such a measure would totally eliminate it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u358	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u359	I didn't interrupt you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u360	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u361	I do not see how the prefects would resist this or that manifestation, and we must understand things with common sense. The latter orders that this debate not be reopened, because otherwise there will be no more peri-urban agriculture, but wasteland. Indeed, it is impossible for a farmer working in a conventional system to leave a band without any weeding.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u362	I said, no use of CMR!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u363	I invite you to do an internship on an agricultural farm, Mr Prud'homme, it will train you, it will do you good and let you know what you're talking about. In a traditional system, the plot is not divided between one organic part and another traditional part. We had resulted in an arbitration allowing regulation to apply in some cases, but extending its scope to the entire built perimeter is not appropriate, as it would affect many useful agricultural areas – UAA. We need, beyond the field crops, market gardening activities, which would be banned in peri-urban areas. I am of course opposed to this amendment, as well as to all the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u364	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u365	There is no need to open this debate when considering this text, for at least three reasons. The first is that the French would be made to believe that farmers are endangering those who live in the countryside. I ask the National Assembly about the use by French people of overdosed plant protection products in their gardens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u366	It's forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u367	No, it's not forbidden, go to supermarkets, you'll see if these products are banned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u368	I don't need to go there to find out these products are banned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u369	But no, they are not; Go to the supermarkets and see if the spokes are empty. Go to the gardens, if you don't go to the supermarkets.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u370	These products are prohibited.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u371	Stop cutting me off, my dear colleague. There is an individual use of overdosed products, which may be more dangerous than the farmer's supervised activity – and which will become overcame in a few moments after the adoption of a number of provisions – near the homes. When we go to the coast in the summer, we are happy to see no mosquitoes or flies, and we do not wonder how this is possible. There are large-scale treatments in areas where people have a good time, but are certainly intoxicated. There is a debate against farmers, although there is no reason to be in this text. Secondly, by suggesting that it is better to live in the city – where pollution is zero, as everyone knows – than in the middle of the fields – which would expose health to serious dangers – we will create tension between urban and rural areas. Thirdly, as drafted, the Government's amendment does not mention any distance and does not provide any guidance. We would therefore open the way, by adopting it, to conflicts of use of which I dare not imagine the magnitude. I therefore appeal to the Members present in this House to urge that we do not, above all, vote on this amendment to adopt such a vague, ill-defined and burdensome measure against French agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u372	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u373	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u374	I would like to return to a number of points that have already been raised. This debate, we had in this chamber not so long ago. Indeed, article L. 253-7 of the Rural and Maritime Code was amended in March 2017, about 15 months ago. It is regrettable to reopen a debate that has been very lively. Secondly, it is an amendment. As such, it is not accompanied by any impact assessment, which is also regrettable, as several details are missing. When consideration was given to imposing untreated areas five to twenty metres wide between crops and dwellings, the assessment then carried out showed the extent of the production potential concerned. Indeed, these measures would have reduced at least 4 million hectares of useful agricultural area. I do not know if you are measuring what this represents, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u375	20% of the UAA!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u376	On the other hand, in terms of agricultural production, this represents EUR 7 billion in turnover per year. It is not possible, at the turn of an amendment, to move 4 million hectares of our agricultural land without an impact assessment, which would be a hard blow for our farmers. Thirdly, you have referred to a national scoping, Mr Minister, without going into more detail, in particular as regards the distance and the deadlines for application envisaged. In the end, you're putting farmers in trouble. To take away 4 million hectares from them overnight, without any consultation, by means of an amendment which is imposed on us as it is, it is not admissible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u377	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u378	We are not in favour of the government amendment. I'll try to explain why. Let me begin by reminding Mr Prud'homme that there are already provisions on this subject. Article L. 253-7 of the Rural and Maritime Code provides, in fact, that, in "areas used by the general public or by vulnerable groups", the prefect – the administrative authority, as they say – should be allowed to suspend all or part of the treatments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u379	It's not the prefect who makes the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u380	It's a reality, Mr. Prud'homme, you can't help it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u381	This article does not concern schools!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u382	"The areas used by the general public" include schools, Ms. Batho. We still have to start from reality! There is no need to scare people on matters already regulated by law or regulation – something we discussed earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u383	Stéphane Le Foll!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u384	Here we open a box of Pandora, or a bottomless well, of debates, problems and permanent conflicts. As drafted, the amendment opens the possibility for the prefect – it is important to be aware of this – on the whole of the French parcellaire, to trigger, depending on the proximity of the latter to houses, either a dialogue or a confrontation between residents and farmers. What is the reality of the situation? First of all, it was not agriculture that went to urbanization, but urbanization that went to agriculture. We are collectively responsible for a galloping urbanization in which we have allowed homes to settle in predominantly agricultural areas. Some of them are enclaved there. That is the reality, which should encourage us, when considering the texts on our agenda, to look at urbanization from this point of view. This is a real problem that deserves to be raised. Secondly, we must face the reality of our agriculture. We are all trying to do this and I am not complaining to anyone else, ladies and gentlemen, I am just trying to think with you. In the area of viticulture, market gardening or arboriculture – we all know these situations – the parcellar is often located in the middle of the houses. Therefore, if we prohibit the use of plant protection products over a distance of twenty, fifty or one hundred metres on either side of these plots – because this may be the case – we create situations that make it impossible for them to operate simply. It seems to me that this is a dangerous road.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u385	Four million hectares!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u386	The rapporteur said that the decision would be in the hands of the prefects, and the minister referred to a national scoping. But if a prefect finds himself in the position of a mayor, some of whom are the residents of agricultural plots, contest the treatment to which they are subjected, how will he arbitrate? Depending on what criteria?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u387	Reinforced concrete umbrella!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u388	He'll open the umbrella and forbid us to treat them, as a precaution. Thus, as a result of contagion, all the parcellar of the national territory will ultimately be struck by such a ban. Finally, we must be careful not to issue conflicting injunctions. Unless the minister contradicts me, it seems to me that the government amendment, as drafted, also concerns products used by farmers engaged in organic farming. We cannot at the same time pretend that we want to develop it and present an amendment of this kind. We cannot at the same time – as Christian Jacob reminded us, with whom I agree for once – encourage peri-urban agriculture – which is by its very nature close to the houses – by recalling that it is necessary for market gardening, and submit an amendment of this nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u389	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u390	One cannot regret that the equivalent of a department is swallowed by land development every ten years and diminish the ability to exploit tens of thousands of hectares of agricultural land – which will cause us to lose mechanically much more than the equivalent of a department every ten years. Minister, we need to debate with representatives of the agricultural profession. It seems to me that this is the road map that you have adopted. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LR group]] As for the amendment, there is too much risk of litigation and tension between farmers, local elected representatives – who will be constantly asked on these issues – and the prefect – and therefore the state – so that we can vote on it. So we will not vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u391	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u392	I will not vote for the amendment, particularly because of its consequences. Let's stop pointing fingers at farmers! If there is a public health problem – which I do not deny – let us pass a great law on this subject, but not here and now! For example, this large law could prohibit cars in the city, where there is a public health problem every day. Our colleagues have mentioned cancer: it is often caused by pollution from cars. Let's ban the traffic of cars near schools, the deliveries made by heavy goods vehicles in villages, the use of telephone lines near schools – no one talks about it anymore! Let us stop mixing this with this text and reserve it for a great law that is right! It is true that exposure to plant health products is dangerous. We have recalled this throughout this afternoon, which is devoted to restricting their use and to alternatives. However, banning their use by zones is a matter of theory. I'm elected from the Vaucluse. In my home, the peasants do not cultivate plots of several hundred hectares far from any dwelling. In my home, the peasants live in villages surrounded by plots. Besides, many of you come to us for the beauty of the landscapes of the Luberon, in Gordes, Ménerbes or L'Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, where they are indeed magnificent. But tomorrow, if the amendment is adopted, our farmers will no longer be able to process their plots, which will therefore be in wasteland, and when you come to visit this Provence that you like, ladies and gentlemen, you will see wasteland there, and our villages will eventually be deserted. If that is what the authors of the sub-amendments want, let them say it! I'll go even further, because at some point, that's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u393	All the terminals are crossed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u394	We have to defend rural life. Many people come to us in Provence, and some, seduced by its beauty, decide to buy a house there. They then discover that next door lives a peasant and makes a noise, because the tractor starts at 5 a.m. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] We live on Indian reserves! That is at least what many people would like, and what we, in rural areas, are fighting against! That is also what the provisions of the amendment tend to do. I shall therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u395	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u396	Minister, with your amendment, you set fire! It's a bomb for farmers. I do not know whether our colleagues are measuring the volume of the debates we have had on this subject. Your bill, Minister, is aimed at strengthening French agriculture and defending farmers and maintaining agricultural land. But your amendment reopens a recent debate which has been very lively in the agricultural world! In my constituency, we did simulations. In many communes of Perche, a rural area with many hamlets, 50% of the agricultural area was reduced as a result of the measures envisaged! There are indeed houses and hamlets everywhere, as in Normandy, especially in the Norman bocage that you know well, Minister. Beyond the debate on the ban distance – twenty or fifty metres – do you realize the consequences of the measures you propose? Moreover, the amendment poses a problem of democracy, which is beyond anyone's control, on any bench. Indeed, it is presented at the sitting when it is heavy with consequences and without an impact assessment. Furthermore, we do not know your exact intentions, minister. Finally, the amendment gives the prefect an extended power, both on the products concerned and on the distance of prohibition, which he will fix. We do not know whether it will be five, ten or twenty metres, or even two hundred, as some of our colleagues are proposing! It's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u397	Vote on our sub-amendment, you will know! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u398	In addition, you do not take the floor to explain your intentions. There is a real democratic problem here! We are here to make the law and to monitor the action of the Government. In this case, it's leaving completely...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u399	Peanut!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u400	Peanut!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u401	Bio!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u402	We have a very important objective, in France, of all our laws on urban planning – as we will see next week in the context of the review of the ELAN bill – to maintain agricultural land as much as possible. If the French are enquired to the point of forbidding them to build a toolhouse at the bottom of a garden if it is located in a non-constructible zone, it is in order to maintain as much as possible the agricultural surfaces. We all know such testimonies. And now we're considering destroying agricultural land!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u403	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u404	You are well aware, Minister, that a farmer cannot practice conventional and organic farming simultaneously. He has to make a choice. If it engages in conventional agriculture, it will continue and the areas concerned will no longer be exploited – they will be frozen. For my part, I am very shocked by the way the amendment is proposed to us by the Government. On behalf of the IDU Group, I would point out that we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u405	Mr Michel Delpon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u406	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the IDU group, Act and independent]] I support the amendment tabled by the Government, as it encourages alternative practices and ecological transition. I'll explain. In the field of viticulture, which I know well, there are solutions consisting of the use of resistant grape varieties. We can therefore very well obtain advances and find alternative solutions for the cultures around schools and homes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u407	Unrealizable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u408	Last week, I met a wine grower, president of a local federation, who decided to plant resistant grape varieties around the houses. This is a concrete example in the field of possible! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] While this certainly requires budget support and experimentation, this development is part of the possible area and also allows the development of a strategy, within the framework of the ecological transition, to find alternative solutions to pesticides.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u409	That's theory!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u410	That is why we are defending ourselves in the Chamber, but not in the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u411	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u412	With regard to the prefects, I would like to begin by recalling that article 72 of the Constitution states that "the representative of the State... shall be responsible for national interests, administrative control and respect for the laws". It is therefore quite normal for the prefects to apply the law that we decide to vote on. Mrs de La Raudière, with my sub-amendment, things are clear: the distance is set at 200 metres. Mr. President Jacob, you're too smart to understand what I'm saying. You didn't hear my proposals, or you didn't listen to them – or you didn't want to understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u413	I feel like you're going to repeat it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u414	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In any case, it is useless to give me lessons in agronomy: I can support a conversation with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u415	There's gonna be a duel, at least!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u416	I propose that, within 200 metres, the treatments contain neither CMR products nor endocrine disruptors. This is absolutely not about all treatments! So don't tell us that these land would become wasteland. Don't caricature, and don't make me say what I didn't say. To return to the reality and the great knowledge that you have of the agricultural environment, please know, Mr. Jacob, that treatment plans without CMR and without endocrine disruptors are already in place in my region. They allow us to deal throughout the cycle, and thus to bring the culture to a successful conclusion. In my region, however, there are many vines – the vine being one of the crops where the frequency of treatment indicator, the IFT, is among the highest. What is possible for the vine will also be possible for a large number of crops! I'm not talking about removing any treatment or going organic. Refusing to see the reality of public exposure to RMC products is criminal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u417	Mrs Sandrine Le Feur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u418	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] I'd like to restore some truths, because I've heard things wrong. I'm a farmer, I'm a organic farmer, and it's not because I don't treat my plots that they're out of stock. I invite those who wish to come and check on the spot. I have a neighbor who has parcels contiguous to mine; He makes efforts and does not treat them. It is therefore quite possible to be in conventional and to have some organic plots – and besides, since he did this, he wonders if he should not spend his whole farm in organic... [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The majority and the Government support the development of organic farming, including through the Organic Ambition programme. The measure proposed by the Government can only be beneficial, and I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u419	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u420	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u421	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u422	I reread the article of the rural code referred to in the amendment and the sub-amendments, and I am not sure that the provision is limited to the products mentioned by Loïc Prud'homme: in my view, all plant protection products are concerned. The objective of the Government, and that of the authors of the sub-amendments, is legitimate: to preserve the health of our fellow citizens. But the discussion has also shown that there is no serious impact study on the number of land that would be set aside, nor on the consequences of such a measure on organic farms. Moreover, one must take into account a socio-economic reality: the change of life in our countryside. A new population arrives in the rural world, in Normandy as elsewhere. In Dieppe, there are sometimes Parisians who settle because they find the beautiful city – and they are right – and then find that there are still many gulls, that the dredge of the port is noisy, that trawlers go fishing very early in the morning and that it prevents them from sleeping... Economic activity leads to disadvantages. The changes in our campaigns are generally quite positive: it makes schools and businesses live... But customary conflicts and neighbourhood conflicts are increasingly common. I am not sure that the legislator should aggravate these already present trends, and in particular risk putting the prefects at risk, opposing them to the population and the mayors. The difficulties will, I believe, be great. Finally, to my knowledge, regional health agencies and prefects already have, when public health is at stake, prerogatives that enable them to protect the population. A SRA may, at any time, consider that the use of a hazardous product requires the establishment of a perimeter of protection or examinations. It does not seem useful to me to add to this amendment, the effectiveness and consequences of which I think are questionable, especially since we do not have an impact assessment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] In order to prevent measures aimed at achieving legitimate objectives from contradicting real life, I propose that the Government's amendment be withdrawn to be reworked and expertized so that we can discuss it calmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u423	Very good proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u424	Since Tuesday, we keep on the general economy of the text and manage to find balances despite the somewhat different approaches of each other – differences that come from our stories, from where we live... With this amendment, I am afraid that we will unbalance the bill, in addition to the shortcomings that I believe it presents in its title I.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u425	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u426	On the basis of Rule 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure, relating to the conduct of the sitting. I just wanted to ask our colleague that I interrupted earlier to apologize. This interruption is the result of my situation: I cannot recall in this debate, for example, that there is a report, which I have with me, which says that if no action is taken, the criminal responsibility of the Government could be engaged. [[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] I beg your pardon; However, I don't need to be reminded of my attendance at supermarkets.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u427	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u428	This amendment comes to the table without consultation, without prior discussion in committee, without impact assessment – but with a very broad scope. What we see here are arrangements between small marquis of the majority. Christian Jacob spoke earlier about the freezing of peri-urban agriculture; But in our rural areas of medium density, like the bocage de l'Orne, there are villages, hamlets, houses scattered all over... It is thousands of plots that would be affected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u429	Millions of hectares!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u430	Moreover, depending on the sensitivity of the prefects, the approaches will be different. Not only will our farmers once again be stigmatized, but they will also be treated differently according to the departments. Minister, this amendment is a serious mistake; He's dying for all our farmers. Please come back to your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u431	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u432	Minister, you will do as you please and Members will do as they please. But I see what is happening as extremely serious. You were, a few months ago, a colleague of Mr. Stéphane Le Foll. Ms Louwagie recalled earlier: there was then a project on this subject, worked on the background, carefully, which planned to exclude a small perimeter around the houses. But in our country, habitat areas are often diffused – as in the Perche, mentioned by Mrs de La Raudière earlier. With this amendment, millions of hectares would be affected! I do not know who advised you, Minister, but I agree with Mr Jumel that this amendment should not be put to the vote. It would be a shame if the Government were defeated on such a serious matter. In-depth consultation with professionals is necessary; Then you will have to see if, in the coming months, you can make us a chiselled proposal – because we really need the highest precision here. It's clockwork! Yesterday, we mentioned other equally sensitive issues. But we must never lose sight of the viability of agriculture. I hear those who campaign for organic farming, it's virtuous and that's very good. But that's not the point! Your amendment, Minister, will affect a large part of French agriculture, and you do not know how to estimate its consequences. Moreover, unimaginable, immeasurable pressure will be exerted on the prefects – not to mention the local elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u433	Yes, mayors will be on the front line!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u434	Minister, we have to find a way out tonight. We cannot vote for such an amendment. I urge my colleagues to be attentive. I would ask for a suspension of the sitting to address this matter. It is past twenty hours, so we will soon adjourn the meeting. But we cannot vote on this amendment before dinner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u435	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u436	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] Let's take the break between the two sessions to find a solution. Continue, minister, to maintain the serenity of the debate that will allow us to reach an acceptable bill! Like you, like our rapporteur, like our draftsman, like the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, like a number of Members present tonight, I have been sitting for seven days. The returns I have from my constituency – which I allow myself modestly to quote – is the sixth constituency of Ille-et-Vilaine, that is, the northeast quarter of this department – are more than mixed. Being of a rather optimistic nature, I answered this evening to a farmer who asked me that the text was for the time being "mean more". But this proposal, Minister, is catastrophic! That is why I ask for a suspension of the sitting and a discussion with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u437	First of all, the Minister has the floor; Then, eventually, I will suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u438	On this subject, we must move forward. Limousin has set up an experiment on apple orchards. There were accidents, with parcels treated while there were children nearby: we need to protect vulnerable people; around schools, public buildings, protection perimeters must be provided. On the other hand, if a band is not treated, it does not mean that nothing grows in it, that it cannot be cultivated, that it cannot be exploited. I also hear the arguments concerning the vine. Our goal is to draw a national framework. But what constructions should it include? Should it essentially cover habitat? Should we limit ourselves to permanently inhabited buildings, or should we integrate, for example, secondary residences? Do we integrate constructions that serve as a workshop or toolhouse? The list could be continued; However, these are questions that we must ask ourselves and which we must answer. Having said that, I hear the arguments of some, who want to move forward on the subject, and that will have to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u439	Yes, we need a lot of work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u440	[["Yes! » on some benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] I also hear the arguments of others, on all benches. Everyone in your House is the custodian of a piece of this Republic that we love so much, things are sometimes complicated in the territories and we must not put the prefects in trouble. I remember the debates that took place during the previous quinquennium. They had been pretty hot. In this regard, I read in the press that we had heated debates here; I didn't have that feeling at any time. I welcome that, by the way. It's easier, it's true, to describe debates you don't attend when you're in the weekend! It's something else to be at work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u441	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u442	That's what it says!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u443	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir and GDR groups. – A large number of Members of the REM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups stand up and continue to applaud]] To return to our subject, we must move forward because there is a strong demand for society. And this request cannot be ignored: we must respond to it. But, in the light of the reactions, and aware that the amendment could not bring us together, at least tonight, I propose that you withdraw it to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u444	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-28-O1233.u445	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the bill to balance trade relations in the agriculture and food sector and healthy and sustainable food. The meeting is adjourned.
