ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the social recognition of carers (No. 589, 682).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Pierre Dharréville for the quality of his work on this essential issue of family caregivers. Indeed, while the question of the help and support that we can provide to family caregivers is not new, the issue remains crucial: it has become significant over the years. In France, 8.3 million people are now regularly helping at home one of their relatives or seniors with disabilities or loss of autonomy. However, if the more than 60 years are currently 15 million, they will be, given the significant increase in life expectancy, 20 million in 2030, and almost 24 million in 2060. As a result of this gradual ageing of the French population, as well as the increase in chronic diseases, the number of people in dependent situations is increasing inexorably: the number of caregivers is therefore also increasing. That is why it is imperative that we respond ambitiously to the multiple challenges of dependency and develop massively the solutions aimed at accompanying people who are losing their autonomy and their caregivers. The quality of our model of social solidarity will be measured by its ability to guarantee the dignity of older and dependent people. In particular, the aim is to preserve their purchasing power by reducing the remaining burden, since households pay at least EUR 7 billion per year in addition to the resources provided by national solidarity to cover the costs of dependency. In order to ensure quality care, to simplify and improve the care of dependents, to simplify the real journey of the combatant faced by dependents and, above all, to better support families and caregivers. In order to do this, the improvement of the management of the loss of autonomy in institutions must be done in parallel with the development of home care, which must involve an improvement in the status of caregivers. Such a development is essential because, it must be recalled, caregivers perform a work that is more than useful and wonderful on a daily basis. However, they are subject to difficult and important personal and professional constraints, obviously lack of time, and are also exposed to stress, fatigue, discouragement, guilt for miscare of their loved ones, whether they are an ascendant, an elderly dependent person, a sister, a brother, a descendant, a seriously ill or disabled child or a spouse at the end of their life. Unfortunately, there are many examples. As such, caregivers need support and consideration tailored to their situation in order to facilitate their personal, social and professional lives: this is a human issue of solidarity, but also an economic issue. Although these carers demand to remain active in the economic life of their businesses, their obligations vis-à-vis their relatives have significant consequences, since being a helper would be the primary cause of absenteeism in the company. The overall social cost of this reality is estimated at 20 billion euros, or 5000 to 8000 euros per year and per assisting employee. Moreover, the ageing of the population could, by 2025, lead to additional expenditure in the order of 2 to 3 points of gross domestic product. While the monetary value of aid provided by carers is difficult, some economists estimate that their work could amount to between EUR 12 and 16 billion, or 0.6% to 0.8% of GDP. The work done by carers is colossal. To support them and to give them the recognition they deserve is therefore more essential than ever. This is a commitment of the President of the Republic and one of the axes of work of the Minister for Solidarity and Health. The Committee on Social Affairs has also considered this issue in recent months. For example, our colleagues Agnès Firmin Le Bodo and Charlotte Lecocq made proposals last December in their information report on the implementation of the Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing. Mr rapporteur, you yourself have carried out a flash mission which has made it possible to identify three main axes which would improve the situation of close caregivers: time, resources and support. Finally, a proposal for a law of the IDU, Act and Independents group has been adopted: it allows for the extension of the scheme of donations of days of rest not taken to family caregivers. We are particularly pleased that, at the initiative of the MODEM Group, a report from the Government on the situation of family caregivers will soon be submitted to Parliament. In particular, this report will examine the possibility of revising the taxation of compensation payments in the context of the compensation benefit with a view to supporting and valuing carers. It will also examine the possibility of maintaining the old-age insurance coverage of the assisting parents of a disabled child over the age of 20. These advances are therefore significant and go hand in hand with the work undertaken by the Government. Once again, I would like to thank our colleagues in the GDR Group – and in particular the rapporteur, Mr Pierre Dharréville – for addressing this crucial issue of carers. However, this bill does not seem sufficient today, firstly because it does not answer the question of the feasibility or financing of certain measures, and secondly because it does not address the problem as a whole. The MODEM Group calls for the development of a comprehensive and ambitious project for carers, which would put an end to the very fragmented and segmented approach that has hitherto prevailed. In this context, we would like to see a topic that has so far been hidden: the role of young caregivers accompanying a sick or disabled brother, sister or parent. There are 913,000 caregivers between 16 and 30 years of age. Although the younger ones do not appear in the statistics, many of them are involved in this role, since they are estimated to be 500,000 between the ages of 8 and 20 years. While the issue of young caregivers has been studied in Great Britain, Italy and the United States, no studies have been conducted in France. The situation of minor children, or young people who accompany a family member who is ill or disabled on a daily basis, is now a reality that can be described as invisible or taboo. The problem is that it is very difficult to identify them: they speak little outside of their home situation and often do not know that they are caregivers. They are neither heroes nor victims: they remain, despite this singularity, children like others. Nevertheless, while the role of caregiver has many positive aspects, it is sometimes heavy to bear. How can we help these children? Indeed, 500,000 children need to be made easier on their daily lives. However, their number is likely to increase with the increase in single-parent households and chronic conditions that lead to loss of autonomy – diabetes, cardiovascular or respiratory diseases, cancer pathologies. We do not know precisely what tasks these young people are engaged in – is it about body care, the support of siblings, the household? – and what are the effects of these responsibilities on their school and social life and their future. While the child has never been so narcissically invested, these young people seem totally denied their role as caregivers. Health and social workers mainly meet with them in single-parent families, but the current system only identifies them as "children of their sick parent". The self-esteem of these young caregivers is often undermined, either because they find that the sick or disabled person takes up too much space, either because of the ridicule they experience in school, or because the presence of the disease and the fear of its long-term effects degrade their education, social relations or mental health. It is necessary to be able to prevent and detect the possible psychological suffering of these young people because they have many public health implications. That is why we must now become aware of the situation of young carers, set up aid schemes and recognise them politically and institutionally. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Minister, the MODEM Group will be at your side to take this subject with you. In the meantime, we would like to refer this bill back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u4	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in recent decades the progress of medicine, combined with the improvement of living conditions, has led to a significant increase in the life expectancy of the French population. This is currently seventy-eight years for men and eighty-five years for women. As a direct consequence of this progress, the number of people living in dependence increases a little more each year. The latest population projections of the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies (INSEE) indicate that by 2060, one third of the population will be over sixty years of age, compared to a quarter at present. Our country cannot ignore the challenge ahead: we must now respond to the challenges of population ageing and work on upstream rather than reactive solutions. For if the French live longer, they must also be able to age better. However, the current situation is far from ideal. Many indicators show that our country is not prepared to take care of all these dependents. In this unprecedented context, caregivers play a vital role and constitute one of the most valuable resources to meet the challenge of the aging French population. Our social protection system is increasingly based on their involvement, which is less costly for public expenditure than the use of institutions or professionals, and which also allows for the keeping at home of dependent persons and fosters certain forms of solidarity. Caregivers are already more than 8 million in France – 11 to 13 million according to the associations. This remarkable dedication of our fellow citizens is a real opportunity for our social protection system, because these volunteers allow it de facto to realize savings. While valuing the assistance provided is by nature difficult to assess, some economists estimate that the work of family carers would amount to between 12 and 16 billion euros, i.e. between 0.6 and 0.8% of gross domestic product. Despite the formidable asset that they make up, close caregivers are still not well known today and they are little accompanied in their missions. Their status remains precarious and they do not enjoy real protection. Caregiver assistance is very much perfectable. Helping today involves certain sacrifices, and leads to choices, adjustments and even renunciations in all aspects of working and personal life. Caregivers also spend less time on family, work and rest, often neglecting their own health when the effort becomes too heavy. The Government has responded through legislation. The Act on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing had been a real step forward, including the definition of the caregiver, who now exceeded the family framework. These are significant progress, but unfortunately remain insufficient. Most recently, our Assembly took a second step towards this aid to the carers, by voting almost unanimously, in the same Chamber, the bill creating a mechanism for the donation of days of rest not taken for the benefit of the caring relatives; This text calls for solidarity, moving away from a Jacobine vision of our society. Today, we are given a new opportunity to improve the status of caregivers in France, thanks to the bill defended by our colleague Pierre Dharréville on the basis of his relevant analysis of the situation. This bill focuses first on improving caregiving leave. This right to leave allows a person to stop working in order to care for a person with a disability or a loss of autonomy. It has the merit of existence, but the lack of compensation hinders those who would like to benefit from it: few people are willing to give up a year of their income. The fear of being placed in a situation of financial insecurity, therefore, all too often forces the caregiver to give up the right to leave. On the basis of the daily parental attendance allowance, section 1 of the proposed law seeks to compensate for the leave, thereby reducing financial hardship and providing compensation to caregivers. That's a very good thing. I repeat, however, a small reservation, already expressed in committee, concerning the assessment of the cost of this measure: we do not have a prior assessment of the financial impact for social security bodies; a request should be made to the Directorate of Social Security. In addition, it might be interesting to quantify the savings achieved through the solvency of the caregiver, who will no longer be tempted, or obliged, to stop sickness in order to take care of the helper, or to negotiate a conventional break allowing him to benefit from the Employment Centre's allowances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u7	Caregiver leave has a second defect, since it is limited in duration. The law now grants this leave for one year, whereas the evolution of society can lead every citizen to accompany one or more relatives, on several occasions, during his or her life. A year on the whole career is too little! What happens to the helper after a year if the helper can't take care of him? The caregiver will then have to resort to a stoppage of work or leave his employment, or heavier arrangements will have to be put in place. All these solutions are more costly for society and do not promote the well-being of the caregiver or caregiver. This difficulty is solved by the rapporteur's text, which tends to customize the leave. The duration of the programme would thus remain fixed at one year, but per assisted person. We are very much in favour of this, and would even like to go further by proposing, for example, that this leave be extended to three years, as the associations have often requested. Caregivers now account for a large proportion of the working population in France. According to an OpinionWay survey for France Alzheimer, 96% of caregivers want to keep their work. Reconciling professional life and personal imperatives is a challenge of all time. Caregivers must be supported, as far as possible, in the preservation of their professional activity. In particular, the difficulties they face on a daily basis must be an integral part of business concerns. In the interests of the employee, as in the interests of the enterprise, it is preferable to favour flexibility in working hours rather than arrangements allowing only one-off absence. Working part-time or part-time, or reducing working time by a few hours, can balance the time spent with the dependent relative and the time spent at work. Article 3 of the proposed law provides flexibility to existing arrangements by allowing the employee concerned to transform his leave into a part-time period of employment or to split it without the agreement of the employer being necessary. To go further, the role of the company should be reconsidered so that it would no longer appear as an obstacle, but rather as a privileged partner in the policy of combating the loss of autonomy. However, I would have a small regret because the bill does not mention the training of caregivers. However, it is rarely decided to become a helper. Brutally or insidiously, disability or loss of autonomy settles down and leads the loved one to this function, whether he invests most often out of love or duty, without preparation, without training, without accompaniment. In future debates, we will therefore have to incorporate into our thinking, not only the training which makes it possible to be a good helper, but also the training which will facilitate the return to working life for the caregivers who have totally or partially left him. Let us give caregivers the means to revive their careers by offering, for example, a period of retraining of skills and knowledge or a balance sheet of competence with, where appropriate, retraining training. It would not be a question of inadvertently creating a ground for dismissal because of a form of incapacity for employment! Finally, the bill acts on the retirement of caregivers, giving them a real right in the matter. The text thus grants a retirement term for each period of thirty months, up to eight quarters, on the basis of the already existing model for persons with a dependent person at home who is an adult with a disability. As the origin of this proposal, dear Pierre Dharréville, I can only agree with it. This would also help to avoid, in part, double penalties for caregivers who leave their jobs, i.e., loss of employment and loss of employment-related benefits. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and GDR groups.– Alain Ramadier also applauds]] Invisible pivots of our social protection system, caregivers represent an unparalleled force of solidarity, which we must preserve and encourage. We need to work on new solutions to enable all caregivers to reconcile work, personal and caregiver life. This bill offers us some of them; That is why the UDI Group, acting and independent, will support this text, while proposing some amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u8	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we do not see them, often we do not see them anymore, because they have to give up much of their lives, their social life and, sometimes, their working lives. More than 8 million caregivers – mostly French – account for 57% of the total; There are more spouses than spouses, daughters than sons, mothers than fathers – in their personal time, at home or at home, help a close person who is sick, disabled or dependent. More than 8 million French and French people live in this way, without discontinuing – the disease does not take a weekend or a holiday – the most fundamental of solidarity, and this complements, sometimes in place, a failing public policy. These 8 million people are doing their best, between their family, professional and friendly lives, to stay with a loved one, rather than seek a health institution. Thus, in addition to giving compassion, attention, care and support every day, these people make our health services make considerable savings. These actions, this dedication, are done voluntarily, but, let us say clearly, they also fill the gaps in the management proposed by the nation with those of our fellow citizens who are affected by addiction. Caregivers carry on their shoulders, often alone, a burden that should be borne by the national community. However, due to ageing, the over 60s, which represented 22 per cent of the population in 2007, could reach 30 per cent by 2060. These situations, which we all describe, are destined to grow considerably in the coming decades. It is therefore the least that the legislator is at the side of the caregivers; And it is the least of the things that the nation is through them. On behalf of the New Left Group, I would like to thank our colleague Pierre Dharréville, first of all for the work he has done in the context of the fact-finding mission, then for the high quality work that has led to this bill. This work, it should be stressed, was unanimously welcomed in the Committee on Social Affairs – but when the time for decisions came, the majority told us: "Well, no, we have to wait for another report, the one that the Government has ordered. The Parliament has evaluated, the Parliament has worked, the Parliament has proposed and, finally, the majority wants Parliament to wait for the Government! We are told over time that Parliament is not moving fast enough – but sometimes Parliament is waiting for the Government: that is what it is doing today. The Government was also slow to respond to Pierre Dharréville's request for an assessment of the financial impact of his proposal to compensate for a caregiver's leave. Unless I am mistaken, the Directorate of Social Security has not communicated anything to him. It is therefore pending a more precise assessment that our colleague has very wisely taken up the assumptions of the High Council for the Family, Children and Age, which estimates the number of potential beneficiaries of the unpaid care leave at 30000 and estimates the cost of it at about 250 million euros per year; It's a small sum in terms of the savings they're making us make. However, this morning, by your voice, Madam Minister, the Government stated that it wanted to give itself the means to join the parliamentary initiative. We take note of this with satisfaction and thank you in advance – which is an act of confidence on our part. Should we not, however, move forward today? Rather, I should say "to move forward again," since this issue will have to be constantly put back on the job in the coming years, as it has already been in previous years. The legislator has already begun this work in 2015, with the law on the adaptation of society to ageing, which has enshrined the definition of carers at the legislative level and transformed family support leave into caregiving leave; who has enshrined the right to respite for the caregiver, providing for the possibility for the caregiver to finance his or her replacement by a person paid by the individualized autonomy allowance of the dependent elderly person concerned; which, finally, allowed the elderly person to be cared for during the hospitalization of the caregiver. This law, defended by the left, has paved the way, but, we will all agree, we must now go further, because, on the one hand, the situation is growing and getting worse, on the other hand, we must remedy the shortcomings of the law of 2015, which reveal themselves to be in use. We could debate, start, today, to make decisions about the time that caregivers need. How long do caregivers need to be on leave? The bill provides for one year per assisted relative; We support this proposal. You, the majority, don't agree? You think the carers don't need time? That they need less time, or more time? Let's argue! Let us examine the situations, hear the testimonies, let us progress together, for these millions of French and French. We could debate, start, today, to make decisions about the resources that helpers need. Is it necessary to compensate the caregiver's leave of absence? That is what the text before us proposes, and we support this proposal. You, the majority, what do you think? That caregivers do not need additional resources? That they need less, or more, complements? That they need other resources? Let's argue! Let us examine the situations, hear the testimonies, let us progress together, for these millions of French and French. The challenge is to give the caregiver a real status. This is why, as proposed in the text, the pension rights of all family caregivers should be converged, by extending the scheme for extending the duration of old-age insurance now available to family caregivers of persons with disabilities to family caregivers of dependent elderly people. We can no longer let these millions of people manage, by building their lives. Donations of days of reduction of working time are good, it is generous – we supported the measure – but, let us admit, it is insufficient; It is also unfair, sometimes unfair. Let us be careful that this does not contradict our idea of national solidarity. The European Union, for its part, is moving forward on this issue through a directive that the Commission presented in April 2017 with the aim of opening up a right of leave for carers. France has the combined advantages of a high birth rate and a very high life expectancy. But our public policies that promote birth and longevity do not take sufficient care of "pivot generations". They have both to support and support our seniors, to manage their end of professional career, sometimes with dependent children. The New Left Group, while hearing the Government's important progress with regard to the closure expressed in committee by the majority, believes that it is useful to work on this text and the proposals it still contains today, too. This work will not be lost. Our group therefore supports the text, and invites you to a little audacity: it invites you to refer it, not to committee, but to the Senate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u11	... where the Government will be able to present and present for debate the proposals of the report of Ms. Dominique Gillot. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the FI group]] No day of work on this subject will ever be lost. Let us work together today, in the spirit that you indicated this morning, Madam Minister, with resolution and in consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u12	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the elderly and their relatives sometimes have very strong relations, which can be translated into regular help. They do not always imagine delegating this to public institutions. Caregivers will therefore always occupy an essential place in our societies; But today, far too often, their situation is more affected than chosen and, if we stay on this slope, it will worsen seriously. By 2060, we will see an 80% increase in the number of people over the age of sixty. Today, however, the management of our elders by the public authorities is catastrophic. I have already pointed out on many occasions the lack of resources in EHPADs – residential institutions for dependent elderly people. Currently, often, when one does not feel guilty of sending one's father or mother to EHPAD, one bites one's fingers to feel that one is not present enough for him or for her. In no way can caregivers substitute for this extremely serious organised failure of our medical and social system. The improvement of their accompaniment conditions must be made in parallel with an investment commensurate with the stakes in the public structures of the medico-social. Older people and their loved ones should be able to choose between close care and residence in EHPAD, without having to calculate which of the two situations will be the least worse. Both professionals and informal caregivers must be accompanied. There is a scourge in our society, a global, societal, cultural scourge; a scourge that we have to face. As the American philosopher Joan Tronto has brilliantly shown, we make invisible the activities that call for concern and attention to others, whether it is the informal work of caregivers or that of professionals in the social or medico-social sector. Conversely, we value autonomy, independence and individualism. It is time for this hypocrisy of our society to cease, which turns away its gaze and does not admit that, in life, everyone needs help at times, and that it is also what makes it beautiful.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u15	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Care for a loved one, pay attention to him, take care of him, care about him every day: what more beautiful testimony of love?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u17	Valorizing the work of caregivers is a way to recognize our interdependence and fragility, to all of us who can, one day or another, become someone's helper. This ethic of concern, also known as the "care ethic", it is up to us to contribute to its deployment. As too often, public policies are based on a breathless civil society. Sociologist Serge Guérin has identified many local, concrete projects that glaze our territory: the project of the Maison de répit in Lyon, developed by the France Répit Foundation; initiatives of certain communities, such as the departmental council of Pas-de-Calais; the initiative of the EHPAD Saint-Joseph in Strasbourg to welcome, by day, elderly people with a high degree of autonomy, in order to allow their loved ones to "escape" a little. Territorial communities, associations, enterprises or informal collectives are organized. What are we, the legislator, waiting for to make our contribution? Are we going to rely on these local initiatives and the 8 million caregivers, or are we going to finally decide to give them a fair place? Their work is a work of shadow that can become particularly burdensome. Fatima, who lives in my constituency, came to meet me. She chose to take care of her old father, who lives 25 kilometres from home. Her employer refused her caregiving leave, so she went back and forth three times a week and gave up her yoga sessions. As soon as she arrived, she had a thousand things to manage: windows to clean, a pot burned to change, publicity scams to throw away, stowage chairs, plants to water, lost objects to find or a flush to repair. His father's got a pain in his foot, and he's already had two surgeries. Problem: to make an appointment, you have to call during the day, and when she's at work, she never finds time to do it. When she leaves again, she feels guilty and has the feeling of being in the wind, of not having been able to discuss the essentials. Her father is losing her mind and she can't find time to date him. She feels an intense need to breathe, to say "stop," but all this, she keeps it for her out of love for her father because, in the meantime, you have to face, take on yourself and not complain. The physical and mental load of caregivers is often very important, and their sense of isolation is recurrent. The caregiver sometimes disappears behind the aided person, going so far as to forget himself, even to forget his desires, his dreams, his professional career and, in many cases, his health. Ultimate punishment for these invisible heroes: the bad conditions in which they are led to look after their loved ones deteriorate the relationship they have with them. Relationship, family, friendly, social and professional lives threatened, health and sleep affected, ill-being and guilt: the worrying situation of caregivers must prompt us to act, and quickly. Yet caring for a loved one should not be experienced as a burden. The conditions should be met for this accompaniment to be experienced as a moment of exchange, concern and harmony. We are all bound, during our lives, to be closely dependent on one or more relatives; and almost all of us have to take care of a loved one in difficulty on a regular basis. We all know, around us, dedicated caregivers, sometimes tired, but always loving. The proposal for a law of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left seeks first of all to ensure compensation for the leave of close care instituted by the law of 28 December 2015, which the current law does not allow. Partly offsetting the loss of income is the minimum we can do to recognize the help provided and allow the caregiver to live decently. This is all the more desirable because it would help to alleviate the precarious work situation of women, the main caregivers in our country. We will therefore support her. The text also aims to adapt the number of leave to which caregivers are entitled to the number of persons assisted. This is a measure of common sense, which it is hard to understand that it was not put in place as soon as the law of 28 December 2015. In addition, article 3 of the proposed law allows family caregivers not to wait for the approval of their employer to be entitled to the scheme. We are, of course, extremely in favour of this. The employer does not have to interfere with the private affairs of its employees. Finally, the final article of the text aims to extend the scheme for extending the duration of old-age insurance to family carers of dependent elderly persons. Indeed, there is no reason why the current system, open to relatives of persons with disabilities, should not be extended to relatives of dependent elderly persons. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the support of carers must also be strengthened. The latter are not professionals, and must not become professionals. However, they are sometimes forced to perform heavy and complex tasks, for which they have not been trained, and which endanger their health. The higher number of accidents at work among caregivers than in the OTP gives us an idea of the number of accidents that caregivers have to experience, sometimes performing similar tasks. We have no figures since their work is informal, but we know enough to consider it urgent to accompany them. This bill is a proposal of common sense and humanism and, although it must be accompanied by other measures at all costs, it is making real progress. I therefore thank the rapporteur for his work. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] For all these reasons, we want the debate to take place today: we do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the REM Group, your request for referral back to committee. Even if your remarks in this rostrum, Madam Minister, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, open the door to debate – and the request for figures is a step forward – our group will remain attentive to deadlines, because we are talking about an emergency situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u18	[[Applause on all benches. – Mrs and Mr. Members of the REM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is 8 March and it is just 15:40. This hour, as you know, symbolically marks the wage difference between women and men. On this International Women's Rights Day, I wanted to express the determination of our entire assembly to combat these inequalities. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u19	Thank you, Mr President, for these words and symbolic gestures. We can express our commitment to equal pay for men and women in addition to the oratories we sometimes have, hoping that it will be realized. [[Applause on all benches]] In order to go further in the symbol, I propose a brief suspension of the sitting, which will reflect our shared commitment to this cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u20	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u21	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are studying today is in a favourable context. Indeed, the President of the Republic has made the consideration of persons with disabilities a national priority of the quinquennium, and you announced, Madam Minister, the opening at the end of March of a broad consultation on the care of dependency. However, in the answer to these priority questions, close caregivers play a key role: they accompany their child and promote his or her inclusion in the so-called ordinary environment, they allow the home care of an elderly relative – exactly what we all want. In the Committee on Social Affairs and in this House, we have already dealt with the issue of family carers on several occasions. Progress has been made with, in particular, the proposal for a law by our colleague Paul Christophe allowing the granting of days of rest, and the unlocking of the practice of "baluchonning" thanks to the experiment envisaged in the framework of the law for a State at the service of a society of trust. However, there are still many gaps to be filled in order to enable caregivers to play their full role under appropriate conditions. The flash mission led by Pierre Dharréville proposed a first comprehensive approach to the situation of caregivers and their needs. Today, our colleagues in the GDR Group invite us to provide an additional response to the problem through a caregiver's leave compensation measure. I say it clearly, it is in my eyes a good measure...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u24	... to remedy the difficulties of caregivers who stop working in order to help their elderly relative and who, to date, do not receive any compensation to compensate for the subsequent loss of income. Of course, such a measure would necessarily cost the community, and we need to study it accurately. But there is also a need to consider the costs that caregivers can save the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u25	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u27	In the case of elderly people who are dependent, the presence of caregivers makes it possible to prolong home maintenance, thus avoiding placement in EHPAD, the cost of which, as we all know, is substantial. We must also ask ourselves how this cost is now being borne. As we know, it is mainly based on the person who, often overnight, has to assume this role. In addition, where possible, employees negotiate an amicable break with their employer, and it is then unemployment insurance that contributes to the financing of their leave. Others will try to carry out a professional activity and a caregiver's function, so that – it is established – many carers are exhausted, which is reflected in their health and, as a result, in our health insurance plan. However, in my view, the compensation for caregiver's leave should not be seen as compensation for work. Because if there is work, it must be within a framework defined by an ad hoc contract and governed by our labour code – which is particularly permitted by the personalized autonomy allowance – APA. Indemnification for caregiver's leave must be seen first and foremost as a sign of recognition and as a concrete measure to remedy the problems faced by a person who has to stop working to care for a relative. We also need to extend our thinking to the situation of the helpers without work, mostly women, who thus assume this role without any recognition and being increasingly socially isolated. Whatever the professional situation of a person before he or she had to assume the role of caregiver, it is undeniable that he or she has important consequences for his or her career. At present, however, nothing is thought of to promote the development and recognition of the skills of family caregivers or to facilitate their return to employment. However, this is a major issue at a time when we have decided to take up the challenge of competence. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Mr. Paul Christophe also applauds]] I therefore hope that the situation of the carers will really be taken into account and improved, and I welcome the commitments you have made, Madam Minister, like the chairman of the committee, to deal with this matter without delay. We need to give our fellow citizens real recognition of their role, especially in the context of the ageing of the population – the proportion of people over the age of 85 is increasing exponentially – which will inexorably lead to increased care for dependency. Moreover, the real inclusion of people with disabilities, which is our objective, cannot be considered if we also allow their loved ones to feel in isolation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u28	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Pierre Dharréville's proposal for a law for social recognition of carers follows a flash mission on the same subject and succeeds the adoption by our assembly of the bill by our colleague Paul Christophe to extend the scheme for the donation of days of rest not taken to family carers. That is to say, the subject is of importance and topicality. Epicure said: "It is not so much the help of our friends that helps us as our confidence in this help." It is probably because of this confidence that the number of caregivers has exploded in recent years and is now estimated at between 11 and 13 million. However, the ageing of the population, a real chance for our elderly people, can also sometimes create difficulties in accompanying them. This is where the caregiver's role is at stake. How can we reconcile work and family life when we, in addition to our children, have to take care of our parents who become dependent? This is the question that the bill is trying to answer. But it is not itself without raising several questions. In Article 1, you propose that we, the rapporteur, compensate the caregiver's leave in the form of a daily allowance, the amount of which would be determined by decree. We are of course in favour of this, but the financing of this benefit by the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy leaves us dubitative. For my part, I am not convinced that CNSA can currently finance this expenditure. Then, of course, there is the question of who is recognized as the true caregiver in a family. How, within a family made up of several people, can we identify the caregiver who will benefit from the compensation? In the Committee on Social Affairs, you replied, Mr rapporteur, that the answer to this question would also be given by decree. I think we need to go further in the definition of caregiver, but also take into account the different categories of caregiver, which do not necessarily require the same measures. The caregiver may be the son or daughter who stops working to help his next dependent relative. The caregiver can be – often the case – a member of an elderly couple who cares for their dependent spouse day and night. We must help him too; I have noted, moreover, that your bill provides for an increase in the duration of old-age insurance in section 4 of the bill, which I think is quite appropriate. The caregiver may be the parent who stops working to care for a child with a disability who does not benefit from institutional accommodation or the possibility of integration into an ordinary environment. The caregiver may at last be the one who cares for a loved one with an incurable disease. All of these caregivers deserve our attention, because the exercise of their mission, if it begins to be recognized, often results in situations of exhaustion or even family breakdown. You are right, Mr rapporteur, to want to take account of these different situations. You are right, because these caregivers are a preferred solution for many dependent people; they allow them to remain at home with trusted persons; They certainly represent an inexpensive formula for public finances in relation to hiring staff or placement in institutions. In the Committee on Social Affairs, on 21 February and then today, I heard our colleagues from the majority say that you have done a good job and that you have pointed out something that we need to deal with quickly. If the problem is real, it is our responsibility to deal with it, and we have been too late. For my part, I believe in the overall management of dependency. I think we need to put in place a fifth risk policy that includes the role of carers. This morning, Madam Minister, you expressed your reservations about this text, but made a commitment to return quickly to us with concrete proposals for the helpers. This morning, Madam Chair of the Commission, you specifically asked the Government to mobilise its services to obtain precise figures on the proposals under discussion this afternoon. You have also made a commitment, Minister, that we will be able to debate this issue again before the summer. Despite all the unfulfilled promises that have been made to caregivers in the past, on all the benches of this House, I am ready to trust you, so that we can finally, before the summer, give them a chance to be recognized. [[Alain Ramadier applauds]] This position does not prevent us from discussing this text and getting to work today. I am convinced that this work, whatever the outcome, will benefit the caregivers who look at us and who expect a lot from us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u30	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u31	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 December last year, our colleague Paul Christophe put to our vote a proposal for a law to extend the scheme for the donation of unused rest days to family caregivers. As co-signator of this bill, I said of it that it was "a good initiative, of those that we are happy to vote for,... of those that go in the right direction, that stick to reality and that meet the needs of the French" – I will add today: to their aspiration for more solidarity and more assistance. The Act, which was promulgated on 13 February, has therefore created this system for the benefit of relatives who help people who have lost their autonomy or have a disability. Everyone here can only greet her. Today, the members of the GDR Group want to bring their stone to the building. But I wonder why they did not vote last December for this proposal, which we were so many to support beyond our different political colours. The reason put forward was that the text "cannot be sufficient to meet the needs of caregivers", as it did not guarantee them "to have all the time necessary to accompany the loved one in loss of autonomy according to his needs". You spoke then, Mr rapporteur, of a measure of « troubleshooting», of a text promoting «individual and random» solidarity instead of «collective and mutualised» solidarity. But let's go back to your proposal today. His article 1 is interesting. Without compensation, it will always be very difficult for a caring relative to take a leave, in any case a long-term leave, to rescue, assist and support a dependent relative. On the other hand, I cannot agree with Article 3. Why oppose when you can associate? And, in this particular case, why oppose employees and employers? Because this is the case, when you propose that the employer does not have to give the employee its consent, in particular so that the employee can transform his leave into a part-time period. It is a denial of the need for the proper functioning of a company that the employer retains a visibility on the general organization of the enterprise. It's the opposite of common sense. Similarly, your proposal to grant one year's leave per assisted person, without any limitation, is simply unreasonable. How many years could an employee stay available? No one knows. Perhaps it would be wiser to set a maximum number of years across a career. Again, let's be realistic. Finally, I do not hide from you that I am surprised by article 4, paragraph 3. You wish, no more or less, that a decree should determine the criteria for assessing the particular gravity of the loss of autonomy of the person in charge. For my part, it seems to me that it is up to doctors, not the state, to define in concreteo whether a person is actually subject to a loss of autonomy or not. The State cannot, must not, above all, interfere with everything. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of family carers does indeed deserve a number of answers which, although late, are coming to our legislative order. Before 2015, family support leave, renewable for one year, allowed caregivers to stop working, without pay, for three months. The Act of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing, eased by the Labour Act of August 2016, marked another step forward. On January 1, 2017, another step was taken with the coming into force of the caregiver's leave. These measures should enable all those who wish to do so to help their loved ones. Let's just try not to load the boat too much, if I may, at the risk of capsizing it. Isn't it Montesquieu who said, "The best is the mortal enemy of good"? I'll let you think about it. Seniors need us: we must not sacrifice them to the demagogic order present.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u33	Yours?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u34	Mrs Corinne Vignon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u35	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted first of all to pay tribute to the rapporteur for the work he has been doing for several months on the subject of carers, a trans-party issue which today concerns all the political groups in this House. Indeed, one of the major challenges facing our country today is the ageing of our society. This is one of the major topics to which we must provide concrete answers, in order to better take into account those who give their time and energy to help the most vulnerable members of their families. As our population is aging, we will need to train, support and value caregivers. Today, more than 8 million of our fellow citizens are close caregivers. They do remarkable and considerable work on a daily basis, providing regular assistance to an elderly dependent person, a child or an adult with a disability. It should be stressed that progress has already been made in the past. Among other things, the Act on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing has made it possible to give greater recognition to family caregivers, with a right of respite allowing family caregivers to give themselves a little rest or time and to provide one-off financial assistance in the event of their hospitalization. Recently, we have also passed a bill that authorizes the donation of untaken days of rest to family caregivers. But it's still too little. As we know, accompanying a loved one in loss of autonomy is a heavy task that can lead the loved one to a situation of physical and psychological exhaustion. Therefore, Mr rapporteur, you are advocating the creation of a right to compensation for the leave of the caregiver. If, like you, I am convinced that much more needs to be done, I am not convinced that the proposed mechanism is the most appropriate. Although your intention is entirely commendable, this bill lacks a precise assessment of its funding. Moreover, this text only partially responds to the particular cases, which, as you know, are as numerous as the households facing this situation. Having had the opportunity to interact with many mid-aged family caregivers, I found that a large part of them were obliged to stop their full-time work and opt for a half-time, much more difficult to find, less remunerative and often significantly less qualified. I have in mind the case of a 42-year-old father engineer, who, in order to take care of his eight-year-old son with a heavy pathology, has made the choice – to his credit – to sacrifice his career and to work only part-time. But the engineering profession being incompatible with a part-time job, this dad decided to resign and made the choice of a reconversion, holding ten hours a week as a lifeguard. This man of heart no longer has the same salary or professional development. Tomorrow, he won't have the same pension. This last point, which I believe is essential, will be the subject of a thorough reflection, which we shall shortly be conducting. It is clear from my interviews that it is absolutely necessary for carers to be able to maintain a social link in the context of a work arranged and, if possible, keeping their scope of competence. Without a job, caregivers, too often face-to-face with their dependent loved ones, inadvertently cut off others. The medical world is often their only link. Even with a lot of love and self-denial, a caregiver needs a decompression airlock, a third who takes over from time to time, in order to alleviate his psychological and physical suffering. But hiring a third party often involves having comfortable incomes. The development of telework can be a solution. Shouldn't a register of organizations offering a range of activities with the professional profiles sought be made available to caregivers? Can't carers be given priority in obtaining certain positions? Today, we are all aware of the real difficulties experienced by caregivers in finding comprehensive information on the material and human solutions available to them. Also, the Government, employers and trade unions have for several months committed themselves to exploring all solutions to encourage their support. The fundamental role played by caregivers is well understood by the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Our goal will be, among other things, to foster the means of articulating professional and caregiver life, and to find the right balance to ensure the development and well-being of these 8 million dedicated and loving people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u36	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we all make the same observation: our population is ageing and, while we can only rejoice at the increase in life expectancy, it has consequences for the number of people in dependent situations. Today, 1.2 million French people over the age of 60 are in a situation of dependency. In addition, 12 million French people are affected by a disability, i.e. one in six people. Whether by choice or by obligation, it has been said, many of these people are helped daily by a loved one. There are more than 8 million women, the majority of whom are women, caring for a spouse or a sick or disabled child and, more and more often, for an elderly parent who has suddenly become dependent. Like my colleagues, I want to stress here the quality of Pierre Dharréville's work, which draws our attention to the status of family caregivers. The President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, announced several measures to accompany the carers and the Minister of Solidarity and Health entrusted Dominique Gillot with a mission to reconcile work life with the life of caregiver, and to return to employment, whose concluding report is expected within a few weeks. The question of membership in the pension scheme and the increase of quarters, addressed in this bill, will be first considered by the High Commissioner for Pension Reform in the framework of the consultation prior to the future reform, then in this assembly, when the time comes for discussion. We will be vigilant not only about the situation of the carers, the minced quarries, but also about the cost of care. The main concern of the assisting employee is the relationship between his/her role as caregiver and his/her working life. Often exhaustion, stress, guilt, devalorization look after and permanently weaken the family caregiver. I want to highlight in my remarks the role that companies play. This not only reduces a recurring absenteeism and demotivation of the employee, but also gives a positive and attractive image to the company. In 2011, the Casino group launched an approach on family caregivers, including a conference, monthly information workshops and speaking groups entitled "I'm Helping, Let's Talk," led by a psychologist. Let us also mention Orange, which allows its employees to abound the time savings account for solidarity or family support actions. As for the La Poste group, it extended the rights related to family leave by company agreement. These mechanisms, which are part of a social and environmental responsibility approach, allow the company to co-build with the employee the link between working and personal life, and, for the employee, to better understand the constraints and difficulties associated with his role as a caregiver. Furthermore, the ordinances strengthening social dialogue provide a suitable framework for the actors of the company to find, as close as possible to the ground, pragmatic solutions on a large scale to this societal challenge. Flexible and open legislation will enable innovative schemes to be put in place that best meet the needs of family caregivers. Awareness is there and, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we must have confidence in the ability of companies, employers, human resources, the social partners and the Government to act and commit to the major issue of solidarity between relatives. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] That is why, as the Minister has announced, this bill, although dealing with a major societal subject, which calls for solidarity between the generations and towards the most fragile, deserves a deepening and proposals for appropriate and financially sustainable measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u38	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, since some of you have wondered about the potential funding of these measures, we have tried to make an initial estimate, using several parameters as a premise. If, today, 20% of caregivers were to apply for 120 days per year, or six months, on the basis of the daily parental attendance allowance, which is granted to the parents of sick children, i.e. EUR 51 per day, the cost of this measure would be EUR 550 million. This information, which deserved to be brought to your knowledge, will inform the reflection that is now being undertaken on the issue of caregivers. If the principle of compensation can be discussed, we have an imperative to regulate the terms of compensation. As you have understood, several questions persist at this stage: what would be the conditions for the opening of rights? How much would the compensation amount be? Should it be limited in duration? Moreover, who would assess the needs? Who would control them? Who would be the financier? Finally, what would be the number of beneficiaries? What would be the field involved – home only, EHPAD, hospital? Which caregivers, close or beyond, would benefit from the compensation? The fundamental question remains whether monetary support should be given priority or whether we should focus, as a matter of urgency, today on the services that we can provide to caregivers. The main issues involved in the inclusion of caregivers in public policies are the home care of sick and elderly people, the transformation of the medical and social supply to a more inclusive society and the less institutionalized care of people, especially those with disabilities. An underlying problem is that of the organization of the articulation for these cares between national solidarity, that is, collective, and family or individual solidarity. One of the first demands of the institutional representatives of the carers is to allow relatives, in accordance with the wishes of the helpers, to become involved in a role of caregiver. We must therefore collectively determine the extent, nature and modalities of this involvement. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you have understood, this subject must now be dealt with in a comprehensive manner, in all its complexity. Referral to committee will enrich the debate, investigate the proposed measures and link up with other evolving public policies. Our objective will be to propose concrete, feasible, cross-cutting and tailored measures for all caregivers. That is why we propose that we continue our reflection in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u40	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République group a motion for referral to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are all concerned, by far or near, with dependence and, more broadly, with the support or accompaniment of a loved one, because of his age, disability or illness. We are, have been, or will probably be, all in this complex and difficult situation, often invisible. I want to testify to the seriousness and respect with which our group is addressing this issue. Today we have about 8 million people who regularly help one of their loved ones – spouse, parent or child – with disabilities at home. The issue of dependency is a real source of anxiety in our society: 78% of the population fear the arrival of dependency and 48% fear having to look after a loved one who has become dependent. What are we talking about? Who are the carers and who are the helpers? In the case of caregivers, they are largely related to the close family, i.e. parents, children and the spouse, who account for 80 per cent of caregivers. Almost half of them are engaged in a professional activity, requiring us to take into account the impact of their role on their professional situation, while a third are retired or pre-retired. Finally, one third of caregivers are over sixty, which means that they are or will be faced with the problem of ageing in the short term. Sociologically, caregivers are present in all occupational categories and their levels of income or diplomas are representative of the general population. As for assisted persons, half of them are elderly and the other half are disabled or sick. This distinction and variety of situations stem from the very disparate needs and the need to implement public policies on various aspects: care for dependency, support for persons with disabilities and support for families affected by the disease. The current problems of caregivers are many – we know them. Insufficiently recognized, supported and informed, they have long been invisible substitutes for insufficient public policy in support of people who are losing their autonomy. Their recognition has been gradually achieved. Their role was first seen in the 1960s by professional home helpers. The Government then introduced some measures, albeit marginal, in the 1980s. Starting in the 2000s, public policies incorporate them into their strategies, and they are included in national plans such as the Alzheimer's Plan 2001-2005, the Autism Plan 2005-2006 or the Rare Disease Plan 2005-2008. The Hospital, Patient, Health and Territory Act, known as the HPST Act, subsequently assigned specific tasks to CNSA in the case of carers: training actions, respite and temporary accommodation platforms and financing of innovative actions. An additional step was taken in 2015 with the Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing, which recognizes the status of caregivers and initiates a policy of support for caregivers, positioning departments as leaders of the scheme. Since the beginning of this quinquennium, a number of measures have also been taken, such as the adoption of the IDU Group's bill, to act independently to extend the arrangement for the donation of rest days to family caregivers or the baluchonage scheme, contained in article 29 of the draft law for a State serving a trustworthy society. Finally, the ordinances on social dialogue provide an appropriate framework for actors to find pragmatic solutions to the organisation of working time – a significant demand from wage-earners. However, while these various measures represent significant progress, they are not sufficient and are not part of a sufficiently broad and ambitious strategy. We therefore believe, like our colleague Pierre Dharréville and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, that there is an urgent need to implement a genuine public policy on this issue. With regard to persons with disabilities, their support must change, and that is the whole meaning of the strategy implemented by the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, Sophie Cluzel, in order to build life paths with a view to inclusion, at each stage of life, by adapting the so-called ordinary environment – the school or the company – to the specific needs of these people, rather than to isolate them in parallel spaces and places of life. Similarly, for older people, we know all the numbers and challenges we have not anticipated sufficiently. In 2060, one in three Frenchmen will be over sixty years old. Situations of loss of autonomy will increase, especially because of the rise of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's or Parkinson's, which now affect more than 850,000 people in our country. We must therefore reflect on a major strategy that takes into account all the aspects and needs of these people: social, medical and economic support. To quote Pierre Laroque, considered the father of Social Security in 1945,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u42	It's Ambrose Croizat!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u43	She can still quote Pierre Laroque!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u44	..."Old age policy is not enough for itself. It is and can only be an aspect of a broader policy aimed at ensuring the harmonious development of society as a whole [...]. » The responses to the daily, singular and diverse needs of these people, carrying a disability, illness or age-related loss of autonomy, must not only be the subject of a articulation to respond to this logic of journey and allow harmonious and non-fragmented accompaniment, but also satisfy this logic of inclusion. Our society must better accommodate the differences and specific needs of each individual, whether they are related to age, disability, disease or other particularities. We must stop creating partial, isolated, sometimes competing devices and responses, piece by piece, with no overall, structural and long-term vision. To this end, important consultations have been or are under way, which will set the stage for a comprehensive strategy on dependency. The Government has given Dominique Gillot, President of the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities, a mission that will focus on supporting the return and continued employment of family caregivers. In addition, the reflection led by Jean-Paul Delevoye, High Commissioner for Pensions, prior to a reform of the pension system, will provide an opportunity to address the issue of minced careers, including the situation of caregivers. Finally, I am thinking of our colleague Monique Iborra, whose work on EHPADs, which she will present in the coming days, will shed light on an expected roadmap. We assume the choice of continuing to work on the issue in a comprehensive manner, especially since it is not an easy choice, as it would be to sweep away the budgetary constraints that bind our country and the need to correct our public accounts,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u45	What about the tax gifts?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u46	We have to make choices!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u47	... at stake of credibility vis-à-vis our European partners and the French themselves. In doing so, we must not lose sight of the essentials: we must redouble our efforts, do more and better in France, the world's sixth largest economic power, and seize the opportunity represented by the rise of home automation and digital technologies, especially in suitable housing and home care. Strong action by the Government will need to be taken in the area of lifelong care, life course and the establishment of an inclusive society. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We therefore propose that this text be referred to the committee. In order to extend the work of Pierre Dharréville and to enrich the work of the Government by those of the parliamentarians we are, we could, if you agree, the minister, convene a trans-party working group in which we would be happy to be able to contribute to the progress of the reflections on the loss of autonomy and to discuss it with you in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u48	Mr Pierre Dharréville, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u49	It will not surprise you, ladies and gentlemen, that I am proposing to allow our bill to continue the path that we wanted it to take today. In presenting it to you, we felt that it should go further and be adopted by our assembly. Indeed, the urgency is growing as women and men find themselves in situations of distress and suffering and as this phenomenon is massive. We must face and act in favour of autonomy, as great inequalities are growing, between women and men, between territories and between social circles. There is a need for action, and it is more than time to do so. A lot of reflections and experiments have been launched in recent years in this field. We need to take action today. On the other hand, with regard to the text and the arguments that we would need to work on new or different proposals from our own, amendments proposed in committee have been adopted or received a rather positive opinion from the committee. We have all the time, during the examination of this text, to enrich it, to discuss it, to encrypt it and to take into account the elements of encryption that will be given to us. In this regard, Madam Minister, you have provided us with a quick encryption by your services. The one I had given in committee, of about the same nature, was included in another register and was less than half, since it was based on an estimate by the High Council for the Family, Children and the age of 30,000 potential beneficiaries of the scheme at a cost of about 250 million euros. You spoke of 550 million euros, Madam Minister: it is a rather high fork. But, in truth, we do not know exactly how many people would be affected. We therefore need these figures, which I continue to ask for. They could come to us during the review of this bill and allow us to refine our devices. I have also proposed to refer to a decree the fixing of the amount of aid, which leaves a relative latitude. I would like to stress this dimension: our bill offers a certain margin that can make it possible to adjust the various points in the course of our discussions. In my turn, I want to gently point out the differences in treatment or approach according to the subjects. Indeed, you did not always exercise the same precautions... When, some time ago, during the examination of the budget, an amendment by the majority was intended to partially exempt free actions – a measure of some EUR 120 million – from all the services of the Republic in order to take a decision and adopt the amendment. Such a decision would have been taken in catini if we had not requested a meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs. My proposal is estimated at 250 million euros... We have also adopted, under other conditions, I agree, with much more precise figures, the abolition of the ISF for EUR 3.2 billion. We see that the ratios are not at all the same. If we believe that it is essential to recognize the helpers in order to support all these women and men, let us make the decision and give us the means to do so in the coming times, as part of the process of this bill, because we have ample means to do so. To conclude my remarks, I would like to say that the time before us could be used to enrich the dialogue with trade union associations and organisations – a necessary task, although work has already been done in this direction within the framework of the flash mission. I am sensitive to the issue of children, which I raised in my discussions with Mrs. Elimas. By making this decision, we would help to address this problem, because offering paid leave to employees means reducing the number of children in need of help in our country. I would like to take this opportunity, Madam Minister, to ask you a question about France's position with regard to caregivers in the European debate. Boris Vallaud recalled that a European directive was under discussion and it would be interesting for us to know our country's position. Finally, I would point out – without conceiving any jealousy – that the examination of our colleague Paul Christophe's bill did not raise the same objections. In order to avoid double standards, this text could be adopted or at least considered together its articles and the corresponding amendments. If you choose to vote on this motion for referral to committee, I shall regret it; However, Madam Minister, I thank you for your presence, for the words you have made and for the commitments you have made, even though the rest of the discussion has sometimes left me bitter. I heard your promises. Madam President of the Committee, I would also like to thank you for your proposals to extend this work, which I welcome. If it is, as we say at rugby, to take the three points, we will take the three points; But we will continue to wage this battle and work vigilantly, because the latest interventions show the differences on the reforms to be carried out. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG, UDI-Agir and FI groups]] We will work to try to bring this proposal to a successful conclusion, with the feeling that we have helped to trigger a process. We will therefore take date; But the best way to date is to vote against this motion to refer, to consider and pass this bill so that we can take a first step today. Why wait? I confess I have not heard any arguments that convinced me. Let's go, especially since if you want to twist your neck to the idea that the proposals coming from the left opposition never find any space to develop, you have a great opportunity to silence us, as well as to continue to feed our exchanges.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u50	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u51	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG, UDI-Agir and FI groups]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, without going back to substance, I note that the various interventions were almost all in the same direction and contained strong words: self-denial, suffering, sacrifice, love. Indeed, on this issue of family caregivers, there are no MPs out of the ground: each of us has experienced, in his family or in his immediate surroundings, a situation that allows him to become aware of the need to act. We also find ourselves on the solutions to the problem. Of course – I say it in the tone of a former professor, black hussard of the Republic, but not of a lesson giver – a bill tabled in the framework of a parliamentary niche is necessarily partial; But it gives a majority the opportunity to make a gesture. In fact, parliamentary democracy, we love it or we do not like it, we cultivate it or we do not cultivate it. The legislative power, you stick to it or you don't want it, you poach it or you don't pamper it. As this is my fourth term, I saw different majorities passing, from the right and the left; Each of them has acted, for example by retaining certain sections of a bill that is considered incomplete. Under the previous legislature, the bill on the telephone network, which I did not wish to see dragged too long in the parliamentary shuttle, was even taken up as a section of a government bill. Let us not vote on this referral in committee, let us make sure that we move on to the discussion of the articles and at least keep some of them in mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u52	The next speaker is Mr Mustapha Laabid, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u53	On behalf of the REM Group, I would like to welcome the willingness of our colleague Dharréville and the GDR Group to put on the agenda a text on the problem of carers. I will not add anything to the very comprehensive diagnosis made by the rapporteur and the colleagues who have followed in the gallery. The observation is shared by all the groups that make up our assembly. In view of the future challenges posed by the ageing of the population and the need to do more for the 8 million caregivers in our society, there is indeed an urgent need for action. To build a life-long care of dependency, to think about a life course of the person in loss of autonomy and, beyond that, a truly inclusive society, the REM group will vote on this motion to refer him back to committee. By this choice, which reflects our disagreement with Mr Dharréville's and the GDR Group's proposals, we take a clear position: that of thinking about this issue in a comprehensive and accountable way in relation to budgetary imperatives. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This bill does not go around the question and, as Caroline Janvier asserts, in view of the complexity and diversity of the situations of disability, dependency and illness, it is necessary not to create devices on a case-by-case basis, without an overall vision and sometimes in competition. With this referral to committee, the REM Group finally makes the choice to organise the mobilisation on this issue alongside the Minister of Solidarity and Health and the Secretary of State for People with Disabilities. This reflection, dear to the Commissioners for Social Affairs and to all the Members of our group, will, I hope, be extended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u54	Mr Gilles Lurton, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u55	I must confess, Madam Minister, that I have been shaken by the way in which you have approached this debate. The contrast was great with the atmosphere that led to the consideration of the GDR Group's previous bill. Alain Ramadier and I are a priori in favour of Mr Dharréville's proposals, although there are some questions. We have also taken note of your commitments, Minister. However, we continue to believe that at a time when the Government is considering restricting the right to amendment, the systematic use of the motion, rejection or referral, is not encouraging and leads us to question the principle of these niche days during which each parliamentary group can defend its legislative proposals. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] If we are making an effort to present these texts on issues that are mobilising us and that are the subject of strong expectations among the population – the question of caregivers is an example – it is good for them to be discussed; the right of each group, each Member of Parliament, to speak out for or against. Because we do not want to disappoint the caregivers who look at us and who expect a lot from us, because we believe that the parliamentary debate on this proposal will only enrich the work you are planning to do with your services – your opening remarks, Minister, have shown that there are still many points to be made clear – let us discuss them now, article by article, argument by argument! I am sure that the debate will be greatly increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u57	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u58	I thank Mr Dharréville once again for the quality of his work. It has allowed a new debate in this House on a matter of importance, and the discussions have highlighted the need for action. We have also noted the Government's listening, willingness and commitment; The MODEM Group welcomes your comments, Madam Minister, which calls for the development of a comprehensive and ambitious project for carers. In particular, we wish to take into account children and young caregivers; Why not create a status for them? However, because this bill does not yet answer the question "how? "How can I finance it?", especially "how can I finance it? Our group will vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u59	But you have to put forward some amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u60	On the motion for referral back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Paul Christophe, for the IDU Group, speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, GDR and FI groups]] Our group regrets the increase in the number of motions for dismissal or rejection defended by the majority. These lead to a narrowing of the debate and block any parliamentary initiative, making the holding of these niche days irrelevant. As part of the reform of the legislative procedure, it would probably be wise to increase the number of days of parliamentary initiative to give us the ability to get to the end of the discussion, whether we agree with the text or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u62	Yes, that would be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u63	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, GDR and FI groups]] The issue of carers is dear to our group, as we have already demonstrated by introducing a first bill. We are obviously pleased with your encouraging remarks, Madam Minister; However, we regret that the debate will stop there if the motion is adopted. We agree with the idea of a trans-party working group, mentioned by Caroline Janvier, and respond to your invitation to work in committee, Madam Chair. Our group will, however, vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u64	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to associate myself with the words of André Chassaigne: a bill tabled on the occasion of a parliamentary niche may not be complete, but it represents a good step forward. In this connection, I would like to commend the work done by Pierre Dharréville. As he pointed out a few weeks ago, when considering the UDI-Agir group's proposal for a law on the giving of leave to carers, if assistance to a loved one is a voluntary act and one can sometimes salute intergenerational or professional solidarity, one is entitled to expect the public authorities to be at the forefront of the reflection. That is why this bill is interesting and must be completed. As Boris Vallaud said, the NG group supports sending this text to the Senate, not referring it to the closet – or niche. In any event, we will not vote on this motion. We can't wait forever. The observation, drawn up by Pierre Dharréville's flash mission, is known and has been recalled by several colleagues: in 2060, people over sixty years of age will represent 30% of the population. To deal with it, the Government would benefit from having the proposals of the Gillot report debated in the Senate at this time. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] It is time to act, and our colleagues in the REM group cannot seriously explain – as they did this morning about women's job insecurity – that it is too early and that more studies are needed. What are you waiting for? Accept that we will bring this debate to an end; We owe it to the 8 million caregivers waiting for proposals. The cost of the measure given by the Minister – 550 million euros – is only a small one alongside that of the exemption from the ISF or flat tax. We will not vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u66	Mr Adrien Quatennens, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u67	Today, our country has nearly 1.5 million elderly people in need of care. This number is expected to increase considerably: people over the age of sixty are currently 15 million in our country; They will be 20 million by 2030. And if life expectancy increases, healthy life expectancy decreases for the first time since World War II. We must prepare for it as best we can. In addition, nearly 2 million people between the ages of 15 and 65 have an administratively recognized disability and must be accompanied on a daily basis. Public policies for the supervision and support of dependent elderly persons and persons with disabilities are clearly insufficient: due to lack of budget, lack of resources, there are not enough places in specialized institutions and not enough staff. It must be more urgent to support the richest in their race for fortune! To remedy these shortcomings, 4.3 million people report providing regular assistance to dependent relatives, putting their work in brackets and sometimes at risk. They're family caregivers. They are invisible; We want to offer them social recognition. This bill by our colleagues in the GDR Group, which is to be welcomed, aims to expand, facilitate and compensate for family leave. We strongly support this first step. That is why we reject this motion for referral to committee. This text should – as has been said – reach consensus, especially since other groups have already made proposals in this direction. At the very least, it is important for the debate to take place. Don't be afraid of the debate of ideas, don't be afraid to let yourself be convinced, including by your political opponents! Don't refuse the exchange of arguments! You still have to have solid ones. Prove it by refusing to vote on this motion for referral to committee, which openly despises the work of minority groups. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In this regard, Mrs Janvier, you referred to the fact-finding mission on EHPAD. You mentioned only one of the two rapporteurs, the one who is a member of your political group, when you know very well that my colleague Caroline Fiat is just as invested!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u68	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u69	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to propose the conditions for further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u70	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Alain Bruneel and others on free school transport (No 584, 680).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u71	Mr Alain Bruneel, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u72	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering the proposal for a law on free school transport, unfortunately rejected a few weeks ago by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, which had the task of deciding on its articles. It is a pity that this proposal has not been able to find a favourable response to our colleagues, because it is the very issue of access to school that is in fact at the heart of its ambition: equal opportunities must be promoted by making school transport free of charge. If each member of the commission approved the principle underlying this bill, it rejected the practical modalities: it would be too early, or too expensive. I must tell you that these arguments are difficult to hear. On the one hand, the role of a Member of Parliament is to make the law: our Parliament cannot resolve to become a mere chamber of registration of presidential wills. We cannot resolve simply to follow the timetable dictated by the executive. The systematic mistrust of the majority over all parliamentary initiatives is a real breach of our republican functioning. On the other hand, how can we accept that we are opposed to the too high cost of this necessary measure, whereas the budget voted by the majority of this House exonerates great fortunes from ISF and grants a series of tax gifts to the richest in our country? You know, as I do, the cost of school transportation is a significant budget for many families. When free transportation is not guaranteed, it is a significant financial sacrifice that is required of them, not without consequences for the course of their children's schooling as well as their choice of guidance. I am thinking in particular of professional high schools, usually far from the homes of the students, because of a looser territorial mesh; This distance leads to additional costs, which can defeat a school and professional project. It is therefore equal access to the public service of education that is at stake here. School is free of charge from kindergarten to preparatory class, and we all consider this to be a social achievement. However, we can go even further by extending the concrete translation of this principle, which appears in the preamble to the 1946 Constitution, by applying it to school transport. To allow each child access to his or her place of education, at least until he or she reaches the age at which schooling is no longer compulsory, is almost, in my view, to fill a form of legal vacuum. Of course, apprentices must also be affected by this measure. It is obvious that this bill is not intended to regulate in detail the contours of freedom. However, we can discuss some of the issues that need to be decided at the regulatory or local level. The questions that have been asked by our colleagues are as follows: from what distance do we have to get free school transportation from home to school? Should a minimum contribution be required from families? Should the family quotient be included in the equation? The proposal for a law remains open on these various points, because its primary purpose is to establish freedom in principle. I note that some amendments propose a minimum contribution from families. We will therefore be able to discuss this when we consider the articles of the bill. Beyond the affirmation of this principle, it seems to me that the NOTRE law – the new territorial organization of the Republic – has reinforced the need for such a legislative development. Since 1 September 2017, responsibility for school transport has been transferred from the departments to the regions. Each year millions of students are transported through the regions. However, the rates applied are extremely variable, including within the same region. These have largely inherited departmental policies in this area. They must now be urged to harmonise the cost and quality of school transport, which falls within their competence. In Occitanie, for example, school transport is free in the Lot or in Haute-Garonne, but costs up to 220 euros in the Gard. Such a situation does not seem acceptable to me since competence has been unified at regional level. How can we get out of this territorial incoherence other than at the top, by making school transport free throughout the country? It is necessary to take advantage of the territorial convergence which the regions will soon seek to ensure free transport throughout the territories, as the region Centre-Val de Loire has done. Of course, once this choice has been made, the question arises of the financing of such a measure. School transport costs on average between EUR 600 and 1100 per child per year to the regions. Making them free will have significant financial consequences in some territories, especially since VAT will no longer be recovered on this service when it becomes free. As a result, the loss is double for those communities that now choose total free of charge: they lose revenue but also VAT. Article 3 of the draft law opens up a first avenue to compensate for the effects of free school transport: the generalisation of the payment for transport throughout the territory and the creation of a regional share specifically allocated to the financing of regional transport. This dynamic resource, which is not unrelated to the demography of the territory, is already allocated to the financing of transport, including at regional level, in Île-de-France; We believe that it should be extended to all regions. Some of my colleagues criticise this levy, which would weigh on companies already subject to the transport payment, but we could very well consider financing this measure by means of an interstitial transport payment, affecting only those territories which are not subject to it today. The people I have heard estimate that such a payment, at a rate of 0.4%, could generate 450 million euros of revenue for the regions. The question of VAT is also very acute; I have tabled an amendment to respond to a recurring demand from the communities. As you know, tax services consider that VAT cannot be recovered on a school transport activity where the participation of users is less than 10% of the cost; below this threshold, they consider that the service is not actually paid for because of the disproportion between the user's contribution and the consideration received. Many stakeholders are calling for this threshold to be lowered to 5%, as school transport costs around EUR 1000 per year per child and the sum of EUR 100 is still too large for families. Such a measure would also help to support communities towards free access; It could be a first step towards total freedom, allowing, as a first step, to lower the financial contribution required of families. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] First of all, we want to open up avenues for work on this important issue in order to promote free schooling throughout the country, for the benefit of families. I hope that the Republican spirit will hover in this House. This bill is not to be taken or left, but to be discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u73	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on free school transport concerns social and environmental objectives to which the Government is particularly attentive. Social and income inequalities should not be a barrier to the mobility of school audiences. The Government wants public transport to be an attractive mode of transport, in order to reduce the environmental impact of individual motorized transport modes in terms of greenhouse gas and pollutant emissions. These objectives give full meaning to the draft mobility policy bill, which currently gives rise to a very large number of interdepartmental, inter-institutional and social consultations and consultations, with a view to presenting the text to the Council of Ministers in April. It therefore seems inappropriate, from the point of view of the legislative timetable, to intervene on an issue which Parliament will be dealing with in a few months' time, in the course of a debate in which parliamentarians will have to put forward their views. Moreover, in terms of principles, if the objective pursued by the bill is commendable, its adoption would contravene the principle of the free administration of local authorities for those who have the competence to provide school transport and to organize the public service in such a way as they consider most relevant and adapted to the demographic, geographical, social and economic characteristics of their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u75	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u76	In addition, as the explanatory memorandum points out, local authorities are sensitive to the problems of accessibility of the school system. For example, regions and departments, in terms of their transport skills, including school transport, or their social skills, have introduced tariff policies tailored to different audiences. The case-law is constant: if users are equal before the public service, it is permissible for the public authority responsible for the latter to provide for tariff differences, in particular if there are significant differences in the situation between users and the differentiation results from a need of general interest in relation to the conditions of operation of the public service. In the same spirit, and for other audiences, the draft mobility policy bill also contains social measures to promote access to employment in order to target the public in line with their career paths. The Government's approach is therefore to focus on responding to specific needs, whether personal or local, rather than general measures. Finally, the proposed scheme would put too much burden on communities. The total cost of school transport is already more than EUR 2 billion per year for the regions, with the average participation of families amounting to EUR 100 per year per pupil, i.e. 10% of the total cost, which is still reasonable, I think you will all agree, whereas free participation would lead to EUR 215 million per year in loss of tariff revenue. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It is for these reasons that the Government is opposed to this bill and invites the deputies to reopen this debate within the framework of the mobility guidance law which will be before Parliament in the spring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u77	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u78	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text proposed by the Communist Members and their overseas colleagues to adopt this afternoon is of particular importance because it is based on some of the foundations of our republican pact. I am the chosen one of a territory, the department of Allier, which can be proud of having set up, many years ago, the total free of charge of school transport; Only a few twenty departments have made this choice, based on the conviction that gratuity is not synonymous with irresponsibility but with solidarity, that it is not synonymous with wasting public money but with investing in the future of our children and with real spatial planning. Today, free press is bad among public decision-makers. Our society is gradually turning its back on the recognition of universal rights that are not correlated with the income and contributing abilities of individuals or families.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u80	This is a development that we find regrettable. Ensuring the same rights for all, without distinction, is indeed a powerful factor for social cohesion and the fight against exclusion. By recognizing the same right for all, it is avoided to stigmatize and to point the finger at the holders of social rights by designating them as assisted persons to whom the public authorities would offer a few subsidies. In the Republic, there are no attendances, but citizens who are or should be equal in law. We therefore continue, for our part, to defend the exercise of universal rights and to defend the principle of free treatment where it is relevant, in other words, when free treatment involves the exercise of fundamental rights, such as the right to health or education. Free education has been enshrined in our law since the Ferry Acts of 1881, and this principle has been reaffirmed by the preamble of our Constitution, which, referring to the Constitution of 1946, states: "the organization of free and secular public education at all levels is a duty of the State" and "the Nation guarantees equal access for children and adults to education, vocational training and culture". The principle of free education was reaffirmed in the Declaration of the Rights of the Child of 20 November 1959: "The child has the right to an education which must be free and compulsory at least at elementary levels. Everyone agrees, I believe, that it would be absurd or hypocritical to grant everyone the right to free education while restricting this free education to educational benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u82	[[Applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] If the pupil cannot go to school because there are no means of transport or because his family cannot pay for them, if he cannot have supplies or textbooks because his parents cannot afford them, if he cannot benefit from school catering services, what can be said to be free of charge? This is the issue that we are debating through this text, the ambition of which is, of course, modest, because it deals only with the issue of school transport, to the exclusion, for example, of the thorny question of school restoration, which is the cause of very scandalous situations. Indeed, if school catering is recognized as a social service, how many children are still unable to access it for financial reasons, due to disability or eating disorders? These situations are not acceptable and would also merit the intervention of the legislator. With regard to transport, it seems difficult to justify that, depending on the territories in which they reside, some children benefit from free education or, on the contrary, may only be able to join school by payment by their families of EUR 200 or 300 per year. And I am not even talking about the criteria for school transport, which are not harmonised, far from it: 85% of the departments have thus established a threshold of 3 kilometres between home and establishment to open up the right to school transport; 70 per cent of mobility organising authorities set the minimum age for the target audience at three years, but almost a quarter set the threshold at six years and 10 per cent from 11 years, i.e. the entry of students into college. In committee, the majority were flattered to pursue a policy of territorial differentiation, to empower local actors and to provide them with elements of flexibility. Such an approach is, however, contrary to the most basic republican principles, such as equal access to public services. While we are all equally committed to equal access to education, our responsibility as legislators is precisely to ensure that students are treated equally throughout the country. It's a matter of justice! That is why free education, whose principle we support in this bill, is supported by the parents of students. It is also, I would like to stress, a question of spatial planning. In my rural territory, schools would eventually be condemned to shut down if we did not have the tool of free school transport because, without free school transport, many parents would be tempted to send their children to school next to their workplace, often in the city, thus contributing to the devitalization of rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u83	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u84	Of course, this has been said and repeated in the committee, free of charge has a cost, but this is all the more so since VAT on school transport, which is necessary for the application of the right to deduct, is only possible when the sum of the financial contributions received by a regional council from the families of pupils exceeds 10% of the annual cost of the benefits. This arbitrary rule penalises communities that wish to implement free of charge. It is important that we take up this trans-party question so that the legislator – and not Bercy – defines the threshold for VAT liability itself. More generally, we all know that it is important to equip the regions, since the adoption of the NOTRE Act, with the means to ensure their new transport skills. In order to enable them to ensure free school transport, we propose that they benefit from a new resource, through the generalisation of the payment for transport, which is a recurrent demand from the regions, expressed in particular in the recent White Paper of the regions for mobility. You may continue to find this means of financing inadequate, but the argument that free school transportation is too expensive is unfounded. This is in fact a political choice which is also a choice of society. Rather, let us make school transport free of charge a priority! In any case, it is a priority for us and an element in the fight against inequalities and school drop-out, to which we must all be attached here. You often tell us that you want to guarantee equal opportunities for all. You cannot therefore ignore the fact that the cost of schooling and the cost of transportation often weigh heavily on the choice of guidance for students. We must do everything possible to prevent, for these reasons, some students from leaving the school system prematurely rather than creating a burden for their families, or from integrating the institution of their choice because of their remote location and the burdens that it would impose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u85	It's a reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u86	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] In view of all these observations, we can only invite the somewhat hasty judgment on our text in committee to be revised. You'd honor to give him a positive follow-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u87	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u88	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, promulgated on 7 August 2015, the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, more commonly known as the NOTRe Act, has given new powers to the regions and clearly redefined the powers assigned to each territorial community. The regions have been entrusted with the transport powers previously exercised by the departments: intercity buses and school buses. Since this transfer took effect in September 2017 for school transport, the subject we are discussing is therefore above all a regional and decentralized subject. With that in mind, I would like first of all to thank the GDR Group for the theme of its bill. I welcome the rapporteur, Mr Bruneel, who has enabled us to take up the matter in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education and thus open a debate on free school transport. We also conducted joint hearings with him. Free transport, especially school transport, is a trans-party subject that is regularly discussed. It has a social object, in order to allow all students to travel free of charge to access the school. In fact, free access to income-related access is free of charge and automatically deals with the most difficult social situations. As everyone knows, the Republic on the move group is extremely committed to equal opportunities for pupils throughout the national territory. We share the rapporteur's concerns about the rise in school transport prices and the lack of tariff harmonisation. We also know that school transportation is a means of combating drop-out and an essential factor for some families in choosing a school. Nevertheless, it seems useful to recall that many regions and authorities organizing transport have already adopted solutions to relieve families' budgets and thus facilitate children's access to education. Thus, social pricing is to be introduced in several regions, as well as free of charge. A law is therefore not a prerequisite, and it is happy, since it is a decentralised competence. Our group is committed to the free administration of local and regional authorities and to their autonomy. It was in order to promote it that the Government proposed a pact with the communities in the summer of 2017 and signified the end of the decline in the endowments committed under the mandates of Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande. In terms of principles, if the objective pursued by the bill is commendable, its adoption would contravene the principle of the free administration of local authorities, competent to provide school transport and to organize the public service in the way they consider most relevant and adapted to the demographic, geographical, social and economic characteristics of their territory – the Secretary of State has just recalled. Secondly, transport, especially school transport, is very expensive, as some stakeholders pointed out during the hearings in which I participated with the rapporteur. As a result, free education would have a significant cost to the regions, which, in order to finance school transport, benefit from three levers: the cost borne by families through the "ticket"; transport paid by enterprises employing at least 11 employees; taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u89	There are no regional taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u90	The loss of the "ticket" lever should therefore be offset either by an increase in the transport payment or by an increase in taxes paid by taxpayers; Most likely, it would be by an increase of both. However, as everyone knows, these two levers have already increased significantly in recent years and can hardly be used beyond current levels. The increase in the transport payment would lead to an increase in the cost of labour, which we want to reduce. This is also the meaning of the measures adopted by this government since June 2017. Finally, we also do not want to increase the tax burden that already weighs heavily on the French and French portfolio. This common sense position is, moreover, shared by the majority of stakeholders, who believe that the introduction of free education should not be encouraged under any circumstances. At the Mobility Conference, it was also not considered desirable to make school transport free of charge. The position of the actors in the transport sphere we have heard, be it the GART, the FNAUUT or the UTP – the Grouping of Transport Authorities, the National Federation of Transport User Associations and the Union of Public and Rail Transport – goes in the same direction. Finally, according to studies, the cost borne by families for school transport is relatively low – between 5% and 10% of the total, it is said – because local and regional authorities are already making a significant effort, as has already been pointed out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u91	One more effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u92	We therefore consider that it is not desirable, to date, to make school transport free of charge, in view of their cost and the funding difficulties they face, even if the authorities organising transport, the AOTs, remain free of their tariff policy. Some departments have also made school transport free of charge; It is their strictest right – that is, the free administration of communities as we conceive it. This proposal for a law, which aims at introducing the principle of free school transport, without any consultation with local authorities, is therefore not desirable. It should also be recalled that the Association des régions de France is opposed to this. However, I believe it is important that the most modest families have an advantageous price, so that no children are left behind.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u93	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u94	That is why it seems to me very important that social pricing based on the family quotient be implemented for the poorest. Today, it should be noted that 30 per cent of local and regional authorities have not introduced such social charges, which may indeed lead to unequal access to school transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u95	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u96	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] It could therefore be useful to open the debate on this form of pricing in the context of the future mobility guidance bill, which is due to be presented to the Council of Ministers in April, so that the most vulnerable families can benefit from the most advantageous rate possible. Indeed, this large future law seems to be a more relevant framework for dealing with this issue than this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u97	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u98	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to welcome the work of the rapporteur, Mr Bruneel, who is asking a real question about the equal opportunities of our children. Access to school is at the heart of this government's ambitions, and we want to promote equal opportunities for all, from kindergarten to university and vocational training. The bill before us, which aims to ensure free school transportation for all children enrolled in schools, is certainly a good idea. However, to date, it has proved unrealizable for a variety of reasons. I understand, Mr rapporteur, your argument: as a follow-up to a free school, we need free transport for all children. You point out that this measure would tend to eliminate all difficulties in access to school, which are very often linked to the income of parents, as the cost of transportation for the most disadvantaged families is too high. However, and this is the first reason for rejecting this proposal, including such a provision in the law would run counter to the principle of the free administration of communities, a strong constitutional principle to which territorial elected officials are deeply attached. In addition, the NOTRE Act transferred the competence of school transport from the departments to the newly formed regions. The latter, in the process of structuring, do not necessarily have the financial capacity to implement such a provision. They must take the time to organize their transport service according to the extent and characteristics of their territory. Mobility is indeed an essential element of cohesion in their new geographical scope. The text also provides that, even if the transport service is delegated to a second-tier organizing authority, this competence would remain free of charge. In both cases, we face a funding problem that will result in increased costs to communities; Finally, the introduction of such a gratuity would penalise the citizen. Of course, communities have introduced free of charge, but, to my knowledge, the experiments carried out have been carried out at the departmental level, not at the regional level. Moreover, if departments have been able to implement this measure, it also demonstrates that there is no need for legislation. If the regions wish to maintain this free system, they already have the opportunity to do so. To sum up, leaving them free to define their transport policy, in relation to the specificities of their territory, is to go in the desired direction of decentralisation and free administration. The second reason for rejecting this proposal is the impact that free school transportation would have on businesses, but also, again, on communities. Indeed, I would point out that all public or private companies employing at least eleven employees are subject to the so-called "transport payment" tax, one of the sources of financing that can be voted on by the mobility organising authorities. Free transport would probably require an increase in this tax. Be careful, therefore, not to increase heavily the tax burdens of businesses, but also the budgets of communities and public services, through this transport payment. The municipalities, as well as, for example, the EHPADs – the housing establishments for dependent elderly people – would be concerned, although they are already experiencing very strong budgetary constraints.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u99	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u100	Moreover, as you know, the other source of funding is high-level tax and can hardly be sought beyond current levels. In launching the Mobility Assembly last September, the Government demonstrated that the territorial divide was one of its primary concerns. As you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, there is currently a real territorial inconsistency. Also, and this is the third reason for rejecting your bill, this consultation has made it possible to raise the priorities of our citizens, which are due to solidarity and to the fight against social and territorial divides: access to more reliable, more efficient transport, more consistent with the needs of everyday life. There is today – I think we all agree – a real expectation from our fellow citizens, who want us to reduce the territorial divide by disengaging the most remote territories in the context of a new reflection; The aim is to ensure greater coherence and to set up a new transport grid. This is one of the ambitions of the future mobility guidance bill. Finally, as my colleague Stéphane Testé has mentioned, we also intend to reflect on the introduction of social pricing, so that the most vulnerable families can benefit from favourable rates. It is therefore more appropriate to develop a system of family participation, with a declining rate for the most modest households, as many communities are already doing. In conclusion, we, the deputies of La République en marche, wish to foster a global reflection, in the context of the examination of the future bill for the orientation of mobilitys, in order to take into account all the specificities of the territories and to respond in the best way to the realities of the field. The question of school transport and possible free school transport will be given its full place.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u101	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u102	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruneel is submitting for our study a proposal for a law which aims to make school transport free of charge throughout our territory. The discussions in committee showed that there was a common desire on this subject to reduce the cost of transport for the most difficult families, but that at the same time the question of financing deserved to be asked. It is on this last point that, unfortunately, we do not join. The free provision of free school transport seems to us a laudable objective, which the municipalities and, more broadly, the local and regional authorities are trying to implement as long as the financial sustainability of such a service is possible. Indeed, we must not lie: freedom is desirable when it is possible, and we know that local authorities do not always have the means to achieve this objective. In any event, we are fully prepared to explore the possibilities of extending school transport aid in order to better integrate the most difficult groups of people. It should be noted that the reduction of the social and territorial divide is one of the main aspects of the consultation carried out within the framework of the National Mobility Assemblies. The duty of solidarity is essential to any democratic society and we firmly count on the mobility policy bill to invest in this field and to carry out a broader reflection on this topic. For the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, this subject must be part of a greater attention to all the obstacles to mobility, to obtain employment, to access to training or to health services. Mr rapporteur, you are right to point out that the problem of transport has an influence on children's choices of guidance. Let us add to this the costs of the restoration, which our assembly should soon take up, of boarding school or school material – and we see that some trainings are much more expensive than others. We must therefore act on all these issues in a concerted manner. However, we believe that there are several problems with Mr Bruneel's and the GDR Group's bill. The first is, I would say, his philosophy. The report thus provides for "to get out of this unequal situation by imposing free school transport under the jurisdiction of the regions". It seems to us that this method represents the opposite of what should be done. The imposition of such a measure seems absolutely counterproductive to us in the current context of our local and regional authorities. Regions or other competent communities should be more encouraged to work in this direction, as long as they have the opportunity to do so. To impose it unilaterally would put them in a difficult situation, and they would have no choice but to increase taxation to deal with it. However, several avenues can be explored, first of all that of better coordination of the different modes of transport. In some territories, many students have to sign up for more than one subscription to travel because nearby communities have different modes of transportation. A minimum of coordination would be needed to simplify matters. Furthermore, while we fully understand the need to promote access to transport for the most disadvantaged, we must also ensure that the funding structure of the mobility authorities is structured. Many municipalities, intercommunalities and regions subsidise these transports to make them accessible, and care must be taken to ensure that this continues. Nevertheless, let us not be deceived, freedom is always assumed by someone else. The question is more about what solidarity mechanisms could be achieved with the objective you set. That is where your proposal finds, in our view, its limits. By introducing free school transport, more precisely by transferring the mode of financing from the organising authorities of the mobility of commercial revenues to an additional tax, by increasing the payment of transport, your system comes up against the structural limits of the latter. The risk is that the tool that has made it possible to introduce free shipping where it has been tested, or to reduce the cost, will be rendered inoperative by too much taxation, especially since the proceeds of the transport payment have increased by 54% over the last decade. That is how much it plays the role of adjustment variable in the financing of public transport services. The vast majority of PDOs – the mobility organising authorities – do not have the financial capacity to ensure free school transport, and the extension of the transport payment, paid by companies with at least 11 employees, would put too much weight on them. Therefore, more than just its increase, as advocated in the report, we must address the issue of the inevitable evolution of the transport payment, which now reaches structural limits. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is in favour of ensuring that school transport remains the sole responsibility of the regions and that, as such, we are considering the introduction of a single regional transport levy. The other difficulty we need to consider is that of the diversity of the audiences involved in this measure, and it seems to us to be avoided here. The National Mobility Facilities formulate a number of proposals from which we can draw up various measures, taking into account certain specificities, whether they are environmental, whether they relate to the place of residence, urban or rural, or whether they concern pupils, e.g. children with disabilities, whose funding of aid remains within the competence of the departments. Mr Bruneel's concern is, of course, shared by many on these benches, and I know that each of us, through his current mandate or past duties, is committed to better integrating all audiences into their daily mobility. This obviously begins with the school, which remains an institution in which the vast majority of French people recognize themselves; We must therefore protect it and make it accessible. I would like to point out here that our duty is to provide equal opportunities for schools, which obliges us to facilitate its accessibility. However, the terms and conditions set out in this bill do not seem appropriate because they do not provide long-term funding for such a measure. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is naturally prepared to discuss the means that could be used by local and regional authorities to make the school more accessible, but believes that the elements put forward in this bill do not allow us to respond to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u104	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u105	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the preamble to the 1946 Constitution proclaims: "The Nation guarantees equal access for children and adults to education, vocational training and culture. The organization of free and secular public education at all levels is a duty of the State. We must not cease to defend this principle, which is apparently quite clear, and to reflect on all the realities to which it can apply and on all the problems of everyday life in which it must be declined and lived. In a time of great progress in many areas, but also an unbearable and growing poverty, as we were reminded, if necessary, on the day we devoted to school poverty, many families find it difficult to cope with the expenses they have to bear for the education of their children. These families tell us, through the voice of the parents' federations, the Confederation of Families or in our constituency meetings, that free school transportation is an issue for them. They also point to the increase in these costs year after year. All educational activities organized by the school fall within the scope of education and must therefore be free of charge for parents and financed by national solidarity. This must be the case with textbooks and school supplies, such as trips and trips related to educational projects, but also with school transport, which we are talking about at this moment. If we all accept the postulate of a secular, republican and free school, then we must logically defend its corollary: going to school must also be free, and equal access to places of education deserves to be affirmed as a priority of our communities in every decision taken, in order to put in coherence affirmations and actions, and to assemble all pieces of a puzzle, that of great attention paid to all the moments of our children's lives. Every day, almost 4 million pupils, including 2 million out of agglomerations, are transported to their school, from kindergarten to high school, by a mode of collective transport, or even by several, when, in our rural territories, you have to combine bus and train. This results in a cost to families, and this amount is added to the long list of expenses incurred in the school year, which represents a problematic time for these families each year. This situation undermines the principle of equality of children before our public education service, a principle that we all defend here, I dare believe, with force, all gathered around a republican ideal. School transportation irrigates our territories in both urban and rural areas, where it sometimes represents the last of the public services. Until the last school year, the departments were in charge of school transport, as has been said, and 18 of them had chosen free school transport, according to the latest figures from ANATEEP, the National Association for Educational Transport of Public Education. The other departments offered services at very different rates – from a few hundred euros to several hundred euros – and in different ways. While the socio-geographical realities of our territories can lead to significant disparities, which can lead to varying burdens for transport authorities, the situation is not acceptable. Since 1 September 2017, with the implementation of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRe Act, the competence of school transport is exercised by the regions. The latter may, however, delegate it to departments, municipalities, public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation or to mixed trade unions. But the very unequal territorial situation that had previously prevailed was renewed. For example, in my region, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, school transport is free of charge in the Allier, as Jean-Paul Dufrègne said at the moment, it is paid and calculated according to the kilometric threshold in Savoie, while in Ardèche, families pay only a capped contribution, depending on the family quotient, which amounts to a maximum of 90 euros per child. As for the decision to set up a single system in the Centre-Val de Loire region from the beginning of 2017, already mentioned several times, it bears witness to the strength of political will when it is identified and carried. If free school transportation can be accompanied by a file fee or a citizen contribution capped at 5% of the costs incurred by the community, we would like free school transportation to be the principle guiding the action of the regions in the implementation of their transport competence. It is necessary to find the means to finance it, as it would be a significant new burden for the regions: the cost of school transport is estimated at around EUR 1000 per year and per pupil. Article 3 of the text proposes to extend to the regions the benefit of the payment for transport and to enable them to have an adequate fiscal lever, which is obviously essential in this process of introducing free school transport. While the regions are currently seeking to achieve convergence in the field of school transport, this proposal for a law can give a national political impetus more in line with the problems faced by our citizens on a daily basis. We would also like to draw your attention to another fact already mentioned: the costs incurred by traineeships and periods of in-company training, which are compulsory periods in vocational training, whether they are carried out in an alternance system or in an initial training system. It should also be possible to cover these costs. In recent weeks, Madam Secretary of State, your Government has put forward proposals to enhance apprenticeship and the school career path; Many of our young people are forced to go to their places of training by their own means, sometimes taking risks and sometimes being in a situation of road insecurity. In addition, whether in primary or secondary schools, the transport problem is also a factor in the guidance choices of pupils and their families, who will not always be able to give priority to their children's personal and professional careers. In our rural areas, where classes are sometimes divided in several communes according to levels and cycles, this transport problem can also become an argument for preferring a private rather than a public school, making this choice purely practical and away from a real commitment to a particular philosophy, which normally justifies the decision. Finally, alongside the problem of free access, we must take into account the conditions under which it is applied and the routes it covers, so that they are adapted in a satisfactory way to the rhythm of children. The question often arises for college students, many of whom have risen between five and six o'clock in the morning in our communes of Ardèche and elsewhere – especially overseas – about the possibility of more flexible returns, which can take into account the frequent last-minute changes in the schedules, which often force children to wait several hours to reach their home, because their transport card allows them only certain schedules and only a single journey to and from their daily home. In our discussions in committee, I believe we have shared a number of observations, which lead to the need to deploy a coherent organisation of our territories. The New Left Group supports this text, which aims, in its own way, to combat the regional disparities in our country, where there are 36,000 school circuits in total, more than the number of our communes. The regions draw an incredible wealth but also question us about the adaptability of our institutions and the elected representatives we are. We therefore wish, by supporting this law, to affirm our republican ambition and our will to use all possible tools to strive for the success of all our students and children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u107	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I am about to support the bill by our colleagues and comrades...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u109	Comrades!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u110	... of the GDR group on free school transport. Since 1881, the principle of free education has been the foundation on which we republicans have built our common house. From the major projects of the Convention to the Third Republic, the struggle for free and universal public education has forged the republican identity of our homeland and our people. For teaching is not a market activity like any other; Today, more than ever, unfortunately, it is good to remind him. The right to education is a necessary condition for the full development of each child and a means for the community to do so by offering public, secular and quality education to all, regardless of the hazards of fortune. Freedom is therefore essential to the effective exercise of this right. Freedom is a principle that all sincere Republicans share, beyond political families. This principle, as you know, was extended to secondary education in 1933, and then, in 1946, was engraved in the preamble to the Constitution: "The organization of free and secular public education at all levels is a duty of the State". It is therefore a perpetual duty of the legislator to propose a legal framework capable of giving substance to this constitutional principle. The free school for all is a permanent conquest, a momentum always renewed to realize the ideal of our Republic: to guarantee by law the conditions of equality and real freedom for all our citizens. And it is precisely through education that truly free and equal citizens are built. And that is also why our Republican school takes back the maxim of the Enlightenment: "Dose to know! » However, in order for this knowledge to be truly democratised and for the principle of equal opportunities to finally be realized, the material organisation of access to school must be taken over by the community, which guarantees its free effect. At present, however, school transport is a burden for families which is not negligible, far from it, and which we can no longer neglect, as we have all seen. Nearly 4 million children are transported daily, half of whom are out of town, which, of course, results in a cost. This is particularly high for the children of professional high schools, often more distant from the family home, or for those in rural and peri-urban areas, where the transport network is more loose than in our major cities. This cost is largely borne, it is true, by exsangu local authorities, but the remainder can represent a real budget sacrifice for the families of the popular classes during the school year. Finally, this cost has increased considerably in recent years, and I think we will all agree here, with a rise of almost 10%, on the basis of the recent ANATEEP study. In Seine-et-Marne, for example, between 2016 and 2017, the price charged rose from 12 euros to 100 euros for a college student and to 120 euros for a high school student! Even when free of charge is formally insured, the related costs can constitute a burden for the family, especially for the most modest: in the Gard, for example, this amounted to 70 euros at the beginning of September and could rise up to 222 euros for students whose home is less than 3 kilometres from the school. In addition to its sometimes excessive level, this cost is unevenly distributed across the territory, as each of you admits. Territorial inequalities are obvious and severe, according to the departments yesterday and according to the regions today. There are good examples, such as that of the Centre-Val de Loire region, which provides free school transport for families. This free service is also available in eighteen departments. But, as we know, it is far from the norm everywhere in France. I will take only one example, that of my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, where a family can pay up to 175 euros for college students and where they pay less than some high school students. There are therefore situations with varying geometry within a department. More generally, the rate of care provided by families varies considerably: from 0 to 38% of the cost borne by communities. In this respect, it is regrettable that the transfer of jurisdiction organised by the NOTRE Act has not already, at a minimum, been an occasion for the harmonization of tariffs and practices. Moreover, in addition to this necessary harmonisation, free movement is not only desirable but possible. In committee, a number of arguments have been answered to this bill. First, the next mobility guidance bill of the current government would be a more appropriate framework for thinking about the organization of school transportation. But the notion of "mobility" is far too general. I believe I have sufficiently stressed the specific nature of the school in the Republic and its intrinsic relationship to the free service offered so as not to place more emphasis on it and insist on the need to make effective a constitutional principle of free school, in all the dimensions involved in its organisation. I only hope that this dilution of the particular problem of school transport in a larger group, mobility, will not be an artifice to push back the question of free school transport to the Greek calends. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the NG and GDR groups]] The other counter-argument regularly raised, still at the moment in the House, is that of budgetary constraint: how could exsangu local and regional authorities ensure such an exorbitant cost? There comes to mind a quote attributed to Bossuet: "God laughs at men who deplore the effects whose causes they cherish. We cannot seriously plan public spending, suffocate local authorities with largely inadequate budgetary allocations, and then excipient of these same budgetary restrictions in order not to implement such a measure. On the other hand, one of my colleagues said in committee that when a region is voluntary, it is possible to organise free transport for all. I fully agree with the logic of political intent over budgetary calculation: first, objectives should be set on the basis of the general interest, and secondly, budgetary balances should be worked out. Otherwise, our fine principles will remain abstractions. I would also like to take advantage of this proposal for a law on free school transport to refer to other areas of free school, which do not stop at the door of the classroom. It includes manuals that extend and accompany courses, supplies that ensure an appropriate working environment, and an adequate catering service that allows the child to be in the best listening and concentration arrangements to learn. In the latter area, too, there are stark inequalities. But I come back to the heart of this bill. I would like to point out that the cost of transport can have an impact on young people's choice of guidance – this has been mentioned many times. At a time when we wish to promote vocational education, let us not forget that they are among the first affected, because of the remoteness of establishments from family homes. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no no no no no no no no no
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u111	They'll get an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u112	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This is an additional reason, if any, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u113	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u114	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the previous statement, I would first like to make it clear that the draft finance law for 2018 provides for the Government to maintain allocations to local and regional authorities, which had not happened in four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u115	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u116	For seven years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u117	It is important to recall the context. The National Mobility Assemblies, which took place from September to December last year throughout our territory, provided an opportunity to identify the priority needs and expectations of all citizens with regard to mobility. This broad consultation, which brought together all the actors involved, has also led to the emergence of the vision of tomorrow's mobility. In this context, the question of free transport has been asked, and the actors have been forced to position themselves on this major issue. After weeks of discussion, the Government considered that total free transport services were not desirable, following the recommendations of transport actors, whether GART, FNAUT or UTP. This recommendation is valid for both urban transport and school transport. Several reasons have led to this recommendation. In general, total free transport deprives public transport of substantial resources, which, in the long run, affects the quality of the service rendered and tends to devalue the public service. Furthermore, it has been shown that the switch to free was likely to lead to a significant increase in the number of complaints by drivers and staff turnover, due in particular to a possible change in users' perception of the value of the service rendered. To modernize, improve comfort, safety, passenger information and the frequency of passages, funding is needed, which would be denied to communities that would introduce free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u118	We must restore the solidarity tax on wealth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u119	This financing is all the more necessary since, for the last ten years, the price of public transport, particularly that of school transport, has not kept up with inflation, unlike all other public services. As our colleague Stéphane Testé pointed out, the cost of school transportation is largely borne by the communities, and family participation averages between 5 and 10 per cent of the price. As this amount may appear to be too high in some cases, social charges exist to take account of the situations of the most fragile families. Case-by-case studies can be carried out by the CCAS, the communal centres for social action – when I was mayor, until a few months ago, that's how I was doing. In addition to the deterioration in the quality of service, there is obviously the question of the cost of such a measure to the communities concerned, in this case the regions. It must be said that free transport does not exist: in the end, it results in an increase in taxes paid by the taxpayer, whether they be citizens or businesses. The purpose of this bill is to introduce a regional transportation payment to compensate for free transportation. As we know, contributions of this kind have already increased significantly in recent years. The proposed scheme would lead to a greater burden on all taxpayers, including the most vulnerable, of the cost of a service for which they are not all users.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u120	That's solidarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u121	If free school transportation provided for in this bill is a laudable objective, its application would prove to be highly problematic, as we can see. This would be a strong sign that it would lead to a gradual spread of free public transport services, all types of networks combined. At a time when we are looking for funding to ensure quality public transport in a modal delay logic, the vote on this bill would be particularly undesirable. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As Special Rapporteur on the transport infrastructure and services budget, I will therefore vote with the La République group against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u122	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u123	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the GDR Group for the inclusion on the agenda of these bills. The subjects we are addressing today have the merit of introducing into the public debate issues related to the dignity of the human person and equality of rights. It is unnecessary to stress the sanctity of these subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u124	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u125	I come to this bill. School transport is, by definition, one of the direct means of supporting school attendance, and it is therefore essential and essential. It is a discrete but ubiquitous sector of activity, representing the attendance of millions of regular users, almost one third of schools, and involves thousands of businesses everywhere. School transportation is a valuable and irreplaceable public service, both in urban and rural areas. The proposal for a law by our colleagues in the GDR Group encourages us to reflect on this subject of school transport. As far as funding is concerned, since this is the heart of the debate, the situation is different, with some regions covering all or most of the costs involved in school transport, while others taking a smaller part, even if the overall effort is substantial. For example, since a deliberation on 1 April 2017, the Corsican community has introduced free of charge, devoting €23 million to this sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u126	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u127	It cannot be denied that the school transport service is a major burden for the regions or the delegated communities, especially since the cost per pupil transported has increased significantly in recent years. Nor can it be denied that communities face ever greater difficulties in balancing their accounts. The financing of any additional burden can therefore only be done by postponing the additional costs to the other categories of users, or by tax. These are realities that weigh. But we must also take into account the unquestionably growing difficulties of many families and the deterioration of many social situations. That is why, at the very least, we are calling for a very degressive tariff. We are in favour of an additional effort in favour of the poorest families. We do not forget that, in recent times, the cost of transport has been increased for families. In any event, it is the responsibility of the regions concerned to modulate their contribution to the mobility authorities, taking into account, within the communities themselves, the diversity of geographical situations, distances and the very unequal financial capacities of families. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] In fact, beyond these important considerations, one can appreciate things in terms of the principle that school attendance is free and universal, and that school transportation, which is essential for the operation of education, must also be free and universal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u128	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u130	That, in our view, is the primary justification for this bill. Beyond this principled position, it should also be borne in mind that school transport plays a decisive role in spatial planning, allowing families of young parents to reside in rural, fragile or isolated areas and schools to operate there, although they should have been closed due to a lack of sufficient staff. Maintaining these small rural schools prevents students from travelling longer and more difficult. It's valid everywhere. In my home, this applies to the Nebbiu or the Agriates; I think of schools in Muratu, Oletta, Rutali or Santu Petru di Tenda. Unfortunately, the number of municipalities without schools is increasing. I will mention here, in passing and again, the need to safeguard the college of Luri, which plays a major role in the daily life of Cap Corse and the quality of life of children. In this period of change, I would like to say, by the way, how much I hope that teachers from the island will be given an appointment there. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] Even in times of economic difficulties and severe budgetary constraints, the overall effort for education must be preserved. Education is the first factor of a country's future, an irreplaceable means of social promotion, and thus the instrument of individual and collective success. In the light of the bill before us, it is for us this reality of the fundamental character of individual and collective training, which undoubtedly prevails.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u131	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u132	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill tabled by our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, which is a laudable intention. School transport is now the means of access to schools, i.e. education, for almost 4 million pupils, of whom 2 million live outside urban areas. The aim of the bill is to achieve equal treatment for pupils, by introducing the principle of free school transport for daily return from home to school. For the authors of this bill, the school is free of charge and the same applies when it comes to going to school. While the Republican Group understands this will, it remains very sceptical about the proposed solutions, for several reasons. Since the adoption of the NOTRE Act, jurisdiction over school transport has been transferred to the regions. We then discussed this issue extensively, I remember, because devolution to the regions did not exhaust the question of school transport financing. The minister at the time, Ms Lebranchu – your predecessor, the Secretary of State – had evacuated the question, arguing that the departments that paid for the service would transfer the means at the same time as the competence. We can see clearly what is happening, as is the case with jurisdiction over water and sanitation: the problems that have not been resolved during the discussion of the NOTRE law remember to our good memory, and this is probably one of the reasons for the text before us. This transfer of powers has therefore had very different consequences in different regions, as we have pointed out in committee. Several speakers referred to the example of the Centre-Val de Loire region, often cited as an example since free school transportation is applied to all school transport, from kindergarten to high school. In the Greater East region, on the other hand – another example, another region, another way of doing things – only one in ten departments, the Meurthe-et-Moselle, wanted to keep school transport free of charge. First of all, it shows that freedom is possible without the law having to impose it. I would like to recall in this connection that our political group is convinced that we must have confidence in our territories and in the local elected representatives. Initiatives exist on the territories and we must be able to encourage and encourage them before we want to impose new constraints, even if they are based on good intentions – I do not question them. Let us go back to the case of the Grand Est region, which shows that freedom may not always be feasible. So let us be responsible, let us not ask for the impossible, because, as we know, our communities are already under strong fiscal pressure from the state, which forces them and prevents them from considering such a heavy expenditure. For example, free school transport in the Centre-Val de Loire region costs between EUR 11 million and EUR 15 million per year, although families continue to pay a file fee of EUR 25 per year per pupil, with a ceiling of EUR 50 per family: even in this region, often cited as an example, there is no total fee. The solution envisaged by the authors of the bill would be an increase in the transport payment paid by employers in the public and private sectors who employ more than 11 employees. First, in principle, our group is firmly opposed to an increase in a tax, while the French have been subject to a tax strike for many years and again this year. Secondly, the reference to a possible increase in the fuel tax in the explanatory memorandum does not reassure us very much. First of all, it seems somewhat paradoxical, because it would indirectly impose a tax on users, which is supposed to be released; Moreover, it would be in addition to the Government's already imposing burden on our fellow citizens. Even if this issue is not properly included in the proposed legislation, it should be recalled that the transport payment alone will not be able to finance the proposed scheme. Indeed, despite an increase in the transport payment in recent years, it no longer makes it possible to finance what it is intended for: the investment and the operation of the transport networks. Ladies and gentlemen, if the transport payment is no longer sufficient – which is likely, given the current situation – how will the communities comply with the legal obligation that we have created? Therefore, the proposed mechanism does not seem to us to be a viable solution. More generally, we need to be vigilant when we talk about free, because nothing is ever free – the taxpayer knows that too well. On the other hand, I think we need to ask ourselves: should services always be free? For my part, I am convinced that financial participation in the operation of a service is important, even if it is a symbolic participation. This is a matter of responsibility, which applies both to users and to those who offer the service. This is a principle to which our political group has always been very attached. However, in view of the many difficulties faced by some of our fellow citizens, there is nothing to prevent us from reflecting on the evolution of certain arrangements. I am thinking here, of course, of the poorest families. Local elected officials have deployed all kinds of devices to help them, whether they pay for canteens, travel abroad or even transportation. I am also thinking of the 2 million pupils living outside urban areas who use school transport. The latter are essential in rural areas, because often, for professional reasons, parents cannot take their children to school, especially when the village has closed, or to college, when it is located, as is often the case, in another municipality. I am also thinking of apprentices, who should have access to school transport. This is an idea that our group defends: before talking about free, it would be a first step, because it is not automatic to date. These, ladies and gentlemen, are concrete points on which our political group believes that we can move forward and propose solutions to our fellow citizens. However, for all the reasons I have expressed, we cannot support the solution proposed by the GDR Group and we will therefore oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u133	Mr Gabriel Attal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u134	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan, Secretary of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, the rapporteur, we come to the conclusion of the general discussion, during which the terms of the debate seem to me to have been very broadly put forward by our colleagues sitting on all benches. First of all, I would like to welcome the work of the rapporteur, Mr Bruneel, who has worked extensively and conducted numerous hearings to prepare this bill; I welcome his work all the more because we are all interested in and involved in this debate. In fact, I believe, Mrs Genevard, it is a "laudable intention" to remove all the obstacles that would prevent some students from entering school. This is an objective that brings us all together, because we want to remove the cultural, social or financial barriers that some students struggle to gain access to school, it is not to the left, to the right, or to the centre, but simply to be republican, because the school is the heart of the Republic and we can all only wish to strengthen it as much as possible and allow as many students as possible to access the school without any hindrance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u135	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u136	However, as has already been said, we must face things with pragmatism and realism. The question of the financing of school transport – as many of my colleagues have repeated, and I will not mention all the legislative stages – has changed a lot: the latest development has been the NOTRE law, but the MAPTAM law – modernisation of territorial public action and affirmation of metropolitan areas – has also brought about various changes. Today, various forms of financing and various local actors contribute to the financing of school transport, and arrangements for the care and support of the most modest families have been adopted, as Mrs Genevard also pointed out, to reduce certain expenses and to have them borne by solidarity. Thus – this rate has also been recalled – families pay an average of 5 to 10% of their children's transport costs, which is far below the figures shown by all of our European neighbours. Above all, I would like to stress three paradoxes that I see emerging in this debate. [[Clarifications on several banks in the GDR Group]] The first is that some, who claim to defend local communities and their autonomy, and who sometimes accuse us of encroaching on them, propose that we do so. Indeed, this text would call into question the autonomy and free administration of the regions, which we obviously do not want, whereas the policy of the majority is aimed precisely at giving them more flexibility and freedom on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u137	We have to give them the means!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u138	I am thinking in particular of the school rhythms, an area that we allow the municipalities to administer in the most appropriate way to the realities of their territories. We wish to give local communities flexibility and freedom, and in no way to reconsider their free self-government, which would be totally unacceptable to us. The second paradox is that some, who claim to defend the local government budget, sometimes accuse us of encroaching on these budgets, while we are the majority that has stabilized the allocations to local authorities. For the first time in seven years, these allocations are not decreasing. You are now proposing, with this text, to punctuate their budget of EUR 215 million. I am not sure that it is desirable to send this signal to local authorities; In any case, we do not wish to go in that direction. That is also why we are opposed to this text. The third paradox is that some people's comments have been disconnected from the reality of the Government's policy. Of course, we want to remove all obstacles, especially social ones, reduce inequalities and allow all students to access school in the best possible conditions – under the same conditions, because it is a matter of equality. However, you forget to recall all the actions currently being carried out by the majority and the Government. The very ambitious school policy led by Jean-Michel Blanquer...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u139	It's not an attack or a reprimand, it's a bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u140	... indeed has several lines of strength, with great social ambition, it seems to me – I'm not afraid to say it, because it's not a big word. We have a social ambition for school, and we affirm it. We have a social ambition when we split the classes of CP and CE1 into the REPs and REP+ – the priority education networks and the strengthened priority education networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u141	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u142	The children most in difficulty, those whom you say you want to defend with this text, will benefit directly from these duplications.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u143	How will they go to school?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u144	We act for them, for the most troubled young people, when we put in place the "Duties Made" measure, which aims to enable all young people in colleges, regardless of their origins or means, to have access to school assistance. We are also carrying out a social policy when, as has been said in particular by the Secretary of State, we are conducting a social reflection, which we are going to pursue in the framework of the Assises de la Mobility and the future mobility guidance law. The latter, which will be presented in a few weeks' time, will indeed have a social dimension, both for the unemployed, who are prevented from returning to work because of the obstacles to mobility, and for the pupils. Community social pricing has been mentioned: we need to move forward in this direction and support what some regions are already doing. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We will not therefore vote on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u145	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u146	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u147	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill considered as part of the day reserved for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left aims to introduce free school transport. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the quality of the rapporteur's work, whose text highlights a problem involving 3 million pupils travelling daily through school transport. The subject, which affects the daily lives of many families, deserves our full attention. This bill has the merit of raising a number of issues, or rather challenges, that we do not deny. We therefore share your concern about the rise in the price of school transport and your concern about the lack of tariff harmonisation in Hexagon, highlighted in the explanatory memorandum. This increase may relate to the actual price of school transport, but it may also be hidden in the rise in the costs associated with it. We also share your view that school transportation is a means of combating early school leaving and an essential factor in the choice of school by the student and his or her family. Nevertheless, it seems useful to recall that many regions and authorities organising mobility – or AOM – have already adopted solutions to relieve families' budgets and facilitate children's access to education. In addition, with regard to the method used, we regret that you leave it to the Council of State to clarify the criteria for this free of charge, when this is the main point of discussion and the heart of the problem. For free tuition to apply, would there be a minimum distance between the school and the student's home? Would the choice of school be forced? Would free education also be conditional on the student's attendance at school? These are all issues that would be necessary if we were to introduce free school transport. Indeed, gratuity is only apparent. It will necessarily cost the taxpayer or the communities involved. The recent increase in school transportation prices is a sign that communities facing economic difficulties can no longer bear the significant costs of this unconditional freedom. I will take only one example – but we could mention a lot of it: in the North, the introduction of the free system is estimated at 600,000 euros, and more than 5 million euros per year would already be based on the taxpayer. In a constrained budget environment for communities, to adopt a text ensuring that every student is provided with free transportation in a uniform manner does not seem to us to be relevant. In addition, the problem of school transport is significantly different depending on the situation: the cost is likely to vary depending on the school cycle of the student or the urbanisation rate of the area concerned. In order to relieve the regions, it seems to us more responsible to encourage, as many communities have done, the participation of families – with degressive tariffs adapted to family quotients, especially for the most modest ones. In fact, and beyond political labels, the choice of whether or not to defend free school transportation is intrinsically linked to the question of what is or is not the responsibility of parents. If the authors of this text consider that the child must be cared for by the State when he or she leaves the family home, we believe that it would be more appropriate to involve families in the financing of transport, in a logic of modulation of rates according to income. Freedom can also have perverse effects. To take the example of the North, it shows that an overwhelming majority of families have claimed a free card, but some children have little or no use of their card during the school year. As regards the generalisation of the transport payment, which is a recurrent demand of the regions, it would be interesting to study in depth its extension to the territories not previously covered by this scheme, and to quantify precisely the proportion of the national territory outside the territorial jurisdiction of an organising authority for mobility. At present, we lack data to guide our thinking. On the other hand, the application of an additional tax for already subject areas does not seem relevant and would represent an additional burden for private and public employers. First and foremost, it is necessary to consider how the payment for transport can be changed and how it can improve the quality of school transport, make it safer and more accessible. What is more, and as you yourself mentioned in your report, other financial levers can be used, such as the extension of the internal energy consumption tax – the ICTPE – which the regions call for. In conclusion, the IUD Group, Action and Independents will not support this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u148	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u149	... which, if it highlights an important subject that affects the daily lives of many families, does not provide a sufficiently precise answer and does not offer satisfactory solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u150	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u151	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République en route a motion to reject beforehand pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u152	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as was pointed out in the general debate, this proposal for a law draws our attention to a problem which concerns the daily lives of millions of pupils who take the way to school by means of school transport. Free school transportation has a social objective: to allow all students to travel free of charge to access the school. While the objectives of the free movement advocated in this text are commendable, which has been stressed by all speakers, as I have already done in the general discussion, it must be recalled that its application has significant disadvantages. First of all, free education represents a very important financial cost for the regions that have been in charge of school transport since the implementation of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the "NOTRE Act", in September 2017. However, the public transport service is currently in a serious deficit, and its investment and operating costs are very high. Transport organizing authorities need resources to modernize or even sustain services; In order to do so, the contribution of "ticket" is essential, especially since other sources of funding – transport payments and contributions from local authorities – have increased significantly in recent years and can hardly be solicited beyond current levels. I will take two examples here. Free school transport in the Centre-Val de Loire region costs between 11 and 15 million euros per year, although families continue to pay a file fee of 25 euros per year per pupil, with a ceiling of 50 euros per family. The Côte-d'Or department spent nearly 30 million euros in 2016 to transport schoolchildren, students and high school students. This is a very important sum, knowing that many families registered their children but that they did not subsequently use the free school buses: result, on some lines, the buses were almost running empty. It is an economic nonsense but also an ecological one. This risk of drift was pointed out during the hearings conducted by the rapporteur. These different cases must make us realize that school transportation has a cost and that the introduction of free school would result in an increase in the burden on communities, which would ultimately penalize all our fellow citizens. The all-free is fascinating, of course, but it can be very expensive. However, we do not wish to increase the burden on communities, let alone impose this increase. It is in particular on this question of the financial cost that the competent actors in the field of school transport, including the regions, are opposed to this bill. To introduce free school transport would be to change the method of financing the mobility authorities: an increase in the transport payment would replace the revenue from the "ticket". So that's an increase in the costs you're proposing. The total free school transport would thus run into the structural limits of this payment; However, it is the transport payment that has so far made it possible to finance free public transport where it exists. It is worth recalling that to date, twenty-four of the twenty-five largest French agglomerations have reached their ceiling for the levy for the transport payment. Although smaller agglomerations still seem to have some room for manoeuvre, we are exposed to a real risk of capping the transport payment, which is accentuated, moreover, by the decrease in the wage bill. The vast majority of transport operators do not have the financial capacity to provide free school transport; In addition, the extension of the transport payment – paid, it must be stressed, by employers in the private and public sectors who employ eleven or more employees – would be contrary to the government's policy of reducing the costs of enterprises. The GDR Group's proposals therefore run counter to the momentum that the majority intends to create for businesses. They would have a counterproductive effect and could seriously destabilize local and regional authorities and businesses. Moreover, nothing in this bill makes it possible to finance free school transport. Indeed, if all regions adopted the maximum rate of the transport payment provided for in the draft law, the increase in their revenues would, subject to deepening, be in the order of EUR 800 million. It seems unlikely, or at least not documented in the draft law, that the cost of free school transport would amount to 800 million euros: this would undoubtedly be much more, since the departments' operating expenditure on school transport in 2016 was already around 1.8 billion euros. Therefore, while the proposal for a law by our colleague Alain Bruneel and the GDR Group is, of course, a concern of all Members, the whole free of charge comes up against the central issue of funding. Behind gratuity, there is always someone who has to pay: everyone knows that a service is financed either by the rate or by the taxpayer, and in most cases by a mixture of the two.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u153	It's called justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u154	Finally, this bill, if adopted, would contravene the principle of the free administration of local authorities, competent to provide school transport and to organize the public service in such a way as they consider most relevant and appropriate to the demographic, geographical, social and economic characteristics of their territory. We believe that the introduction of the principle of free school transport, without any consultation or dialogue with local and regional authorities, is not desirable. It seems to us more responsible to encourage, as many communities have already done, family participation, with degressive rates adapted to family quotients, particularly for the most modest. The introduction of compulsory social pricing would make more sense than total free. Such consultation, if necessary, should take place within the framework of the future mobility law. Indeed, the Government is currently working on a preliminary draft law on mobility, which gives rise to a very large number of inter-ministerial, inter-institutional and social consultations and consultations, with a view to presenting the text to the Council of Ministers in April. It therefore seems inappropriate to intervene on a matter which will be before Parliament in a few weeks' time; On this occasion, parliamentarians will have to make their views known. This will be a more relevant framework than this simple bill: consideration of transport must take place in a comprehensive manner. We consider, as you have understood, that it is not desirable, to date, to introduce free school transport. However, the authorities organising transport remain free of their tariff policy – which can go as far as free. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] That is why, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on the move, I propose that this House adopt this motion for a preliminary rejection. It will soon be time to reopen the debate on school transportation, when the mobility guidance bill is being considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u155	Nice love for the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u156	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u157	Since this morning, all our proposals have been rejected without any debate on the articles. You're telling us about the future mobility law; but we will not be able to propose free school transport in this context – our proposals would be rejected from the outset. That is why we should discuss it here, but that will not be the case. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Your argument is there's a cost. That's right, there's a cost, I'll give it to you. But it's a political choice: the pool has a cost, the school has a cost – all public services have one. It's a service to the public. Our proposal is very simple. It's not a "all or nothing" we offer, and we want to talk to everyone. We did not want to propose free, final point; We believe that there may be steps to follow. So why not start by talking about funding? I have tabled an amendment on this point which we could have debated without this motion to reject beforehand: it is intended to allow VAT to be recovered if the financial contribution of the users is more than 5 % of the cost of school transport, compared with 10 % today. This amendment would have made it possible to move towards freedom without imposing it at the outset. It should also be noted that, according to the territories, the cost for families ranges from zero to 38 per cent of the cost of school transportation; families pay 222 euros in the Gard, as has been said, and up to 350 euros in Île-de-France. Therefore, the cost varies greatly depending on the territory. We are making proposals for a debate. We cannot agree on everything, but perhaps we could think together. "It's commendable," you say, "it's beautiful, congratulations, you've worked well... but we're not for total free and we need family participation." Either – but then try to work together to make progress. That is what we are proposing. To that, you say no, niet, stop. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] You claim that the cost to businesses would be too high. But you gave them gifts for 12.4 billion euros, in this year's budget, 12.4 billion which went directly into the pocket of the big bosses – not to mention all the other measures that go in the same direction. And you say there's no money! You have made a political choice: to help big businesses rather than citizens. But you have to think carefully: youth is the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u158	No, youth is the present!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u159	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] But you despise youth. You don't respect her. You are trampling on equal opportunities, since you refuse equality in school transport. It's dramatic, and here I want to have a thought for all the families who are fighting in the associative life for free transportation, and which you despise today. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the REM group]] The unique thought is rooted in you and you do not respect democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u160	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Gabriel Serville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u161	I deeply regret the majority's approach of sweeping democracy from one side and systematically passing motions on bills from the opposition. This strategy aimed at muzzling parliamentary debate reflects the ideological and above all pragmatic gap between the members of our group and those of the majority. As we have said and repeated: the equal access of the child and the adult to education, vocational training and culture, which the nation must guarantee, has constitutional value. It is therefore our collective responsibility to defend this principle and to reflect on its various modalities of application. If free accommodation has a cost, it is not only possible, but above all necessary. Unfortunately, the argument of financial sustainability is again put forward to reject this bill, as it was on the previous text on carers or, yesterday in the Senate, on the introduction of a minimum retirement amount of 90% of the SMIC for agricultural pensioners. Was it financially sustainable to remove the tax on capital or to introduce the famous flat tax? The answer is no. To satisfy the interests of a minority, you deprive the vast majority of French people of all common sense measures that could improve their daily lives. Is it financially sustainable to deprive each year of 60 to 80 billion euros that go directly into tax havens? In this regard, you will have the opportunity to express your opinion effectively during the discussion of our next bill on tax havens, presented by Fabien Roussel. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Colleagues, admit that on such a subject, the argument of financial sustainability is not acceptable. That is why I invite you to vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u162	The next speaker is Mrs Fabienne Colboc, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u163	After several successful hearings as well as the debate in committee, and in view of the mobility policy bill, exchanges continue to increase, particularly with regard to school transport. The objectives of this bill are commendable, of course. I come from a region – the Central Region – that has put in place free of charge. So I know it's possible. I also know that this measure weighs EUR 14 million on the region's finances. Finally, I know that free payment cannot be offered by all regions, given the significant cost it represents. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] [[Same movements]] The NOTRE law is still recent. Let local authorities adapt and mobilize to the major challenge for families, which is free of charge – we agree. To give them autonomy and flexibility is also to respect the principle of their free administration, which is dear to us all here. Moreover, it is important to recall – it is not said enough – that many communities have introduced an appropriate social tariff policy. The mobility guidance law will provide an opportunity to address the social dimension of transport in greater depth, particularly in the case of school transport. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u164	Mr Eric Straumann, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u165	I would like to testify in my capacity as former chairman of a departmental council, that of the Haut-Rhin, which has always applied free of charge, like the departmental council of Bas-Rhin, for a very simple reason: since schooling is compulsory until the age of 16, there is no reason to charge school transport. Unfortunately, the NOTRE law and the division of regions have led to the connection to a mega-region known as the "Great East". What do we see today? Freedom has been maintained – I do not know for how long, because I do not think it is legally sustainable: a uniform policy will have to be applied throughout the region. The two departments have fully offset the burden of free payment by transferring the allocations to the region. We need a debate on this. You defend the principle of community self-government, while there is a great deal of mandatory spending on communities, especially on education – transportation is just an extension of this spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u167	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the FI and GDR groups]] This bill is really very interesting. I do not know my group's position, but in my personal capacity I will vote against the motion to reject. We need to have a discussion on this subject which concerns all French families. When talking about youth, concrete examples are also needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u168	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u169	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I am not surprised at the request for prior rejection by the Republic on the move; We're almost getting used to it. However, this poses a small problem in terms of democracy. Free access to school covers 4 million students. What a case! You have sheltered yourself under several pretexts: the perverse effects of the NOTRE law, budgetary and fiscal problems, or the free administration of local and regional authorities. But what more important than giving every child the best chance to learn? Issues related to social equality and territorial equity require political choices. These choices, you made them in the budget. You decided, rather than giving free tuition to students, to exonerate the richest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u171	We've done many things you haven't done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u172	These are political choices that must be made. Social equality is not your thing – the budget shows it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u173	You only have this argument – the budget of the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u174	That's how it is. As for territorial equity, it is not your thing either – it has been seen in the Spinetta report and in various measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u176	You had five years to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u177	[[Smile. – Applause on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] My group – even if I am the only representative here – will of course vote against this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u178	We're going to ask for a quorum check!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u179	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u180	As a result, the bill is rejected. There will be no need for the solemn vote decided by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u181	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u182	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u183	The next item is the debate on the bill by Messrs. Fabien Roussel, Jean-Paul Dufrègne and several of their colleagues creating a French list of tax havens (No. 585, 683).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u184	Mr Fabien Roussel, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u185	The Swiss, hide!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u186	"Tax havens: how to get out of this hell? This was the formula chosen by the bishopric of Cambrai to launch a debate on this subject. It sums up our common fight pretty well. More and more of us are mobilizing against this scourge. But, as the Director of the UNCTAD Committee on Investment and Enterprise – the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development – pointed out, which I met in Geneva on Tuesday, "a lot has been done, but the essential thing remains to be done". It is more than $7,000 billion in untaxed profits that lie in tax havens. These areas of lawlessness are also a paradise for organized crime: $1500 billion, corresponding to black money laundering, is beyond banking and judicial control. In France, between 60 and 80 billion euros are missing in the nation's budget because of fraud and tax evasion. This is the reality of tax evasion today in the world. It's a real threat to our societies. Tax competition between states, offshore zones, opacity of banks, specialized firms, fraud of all kinds and money laundering: it has become a real sport that countries, economic champions, great fortunes, industrialists or banks are engaged in, and they are also on the street. While progress has been made in the fight against tax evasion and fraud, the means remain weak. There are even measures that protect fraudsters, such as Bercy's lock, in France, even if we keep the hope that it will jump quickly. And what about the 20,000 civil servants' posts that have been abolished in Bercy in ten years? Yet the damage to our public finances is considerable and well known to all. During our visit to the United Nations this week, I selected two figures. First, there is a shortfall of $100 billion a year in developing countries due to tax evasion. Famine, illiteracy, diseases are all challenges these countries could face with this money. Secondly, to carry out this fight, the United Nations can count on... two officials – because no country has given the international organization a mandate to deal formally with it. When's the time for blue helmets to investigate and track down white-collar offenders? Would there be only journalists and whistleblowers to conduct this fight with courage, at the risk of their lives? We also went to see the free port of Geneva, a tax haven in a tax haven, a fortress that houses thousands of works of art, including Modigliani, Van Gogh and Rembrandt. It is certainly the largest museum in the world, but its beauties are well hidden. It is there, in this ultra-secure area, that rich people – and the mafia – hide important works from the tax authorities, unless they use them to launder money, for art dealers make their market in this chamber. Switzerland has decided to tackle it. We'll see... [[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] Taking advantage of our presence in this country, we also tried to find out a little more about the part of Johnny Hallyday's heritage that would be housed in the Swiss company Posadas &am p; Vecino. On the spot, we found a plaque, a company and a secretary, who sent us back... to Uruguay! Johnny Hallyday's children have to die, as they say in my home: if this is confirmed, part of their legacy is in heaven and, in order to bring it down... The French State should also be concerned about this inheritance, because how to collect taxes on estates in case of tax evasion? We were also able to visit SFM, the world champion of offshore business creation. The people we met there did not wish to answer our questions officially, but we were still able to enter the premises and we found there a beautiful advertising brochure, accessible to all – I distributed it to some of you – on the back of which is a list of tax havens, as in a travel agency, except that it is about doing its tax shopping there. This is the reality of tax havens. Is this circus going to last a long time? These practices, this white-collar crime take place literally before our eyes, plundering our public finances, impoverishing the poorest countries, diverting public money and sheltering money from the mafia. And we wouldn't be able to pull them back, put an end to them? For our part, we think it is possible. Indeed, as the Prime Minister has pointed out here, democracy is at stake, it is the Republic that is threatened if, tomorrow, the states do not even control their own resources. When the Republic is in danger, it is the whole Republic that must mobilize. On such a subject, partisan quarrels do not have a place. A wide range of actors are involved: NGOs such as Oxfam, CCFD-Terre Solidaire or Attac, political forces, trade unions, economists, journalists, whistleblowers. Without them, we wouldn't move forward. The three previous Presidents of the Republic, ministers and parliamentarians have made commitments, particularly in this forum, for example Jean-Pierre Brard, Arnaud Montebourg, Éric Woerth or, recently, the Bocquet brothers. In particular, they defend the idea of organizing a world tax conference. A recommendation on this subject was recently adopted by the European Parliament and a resolution to this effect was adopted here almost unanimously in February 2016. However, a similar motion for a resolution was rejected yesterday by the Senate majority. However, it was an opportunity to conduct this fight on both fronts, both internationally and nationally, thanks to this text and the Government's forthcoming presentation. When it comes to tax evasion, the words are always strong, but actions rarely follow. That is precisely why tax havens are always ahead. For our part, we propose that you move forward, in complementarity with the Government's forthcoming bill. To establish the list of tax havens, the communist and ultramarine group simply proposes to include the criteria of the European Union and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – OECD – in French law. However, let us not be like the European Union: it has chosen good criteria to define tax havens but, through occult arrangements, has only retained seventeen on 5 December, then nine on January – and we are now learning that three countries are due to leave the list in the near future. How much will be left at the end of the year? Zero? To the extent that it excludes strongholds such as Switzerland, Panama, Delaware, Hong Kong, Singapore or Taiwan, the European list loses all its meaning and credibility. What a miss! How can we accept that Bermuda, the Cayman Islands and the Anglo-Norman Islands, where the tax rate is zero or near-nul, are not included in this list? Not to mention all the well-known tax havens, members of the European Union, which have been excluded a priori on the sole ground that all members are supposed to respect the rules of good conduct in tax matters. This assumption is a thousand miles from reality, as European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici recalled, which amounts to between EUR 50 billion and EUR 70 billion in the damage these countries cause to our economies. I ask you frankly: how can we harmonise our taxes within the European Union if European countries arrogate their right to be tax havens or low-cost countries? We will certainly have this debate in the coming elections. The French list suffers from the same evils, but not for the same reasons. It is unrepresentative in that it comprises only seven countries and is based on a single criterion of transparency, which is appreciated in the light of the signing of a number of bilateral conventions. It is a pity that France has a complete arsenal of sanctions. But what are these sanctions for if the list we are drawing up is as empty as that of the European Union? Today, together, we can improve our system by establishing a credible, sincere and transparent blacklist of tax havens, without a priori excluding any country from the procedure. It is at this price that we will have a chance to reach the most complete list possible. We will call on States to cooperate, to comply with tax practices accepted by all, including within the Union. They will have until January 1, 2019 to do so. It is also essential to remove the preparation of the list from the pressures of all kinds. That is why we wish to involve Parliament through a compulsory debate, held annually in the Committees on Finance and Foreign Affairs, and even here in the Chamber if we decide to do so. Finally, the present bill leaves it to the Government to develop, in its future text, the aspect of sanctions against tax havens. However, Article 2 provides for the prohibition of banks from exercising or establishing subsidiaries in tax havens if the aim is to promote tax optimisation schemes, which is a matter of common sense. We will also propose that this article be rewritten taking into account our discussions in committee. In short, the two texts are complementary: the Government plans to adapt the sanctions component against tax havens and, for our part, we propose a new method for listing them. The discussion we had in committee and the discussion I had with the Government were, I would stress, constructive. Our bill has been welcomed, and almost all the amendments tabled in committee by various groups have been adopted. In short, all the conditions are in place for adopting this text and taking an important step in the fight against tax havens. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against tax evasion must bring us all together around the same objective: to put an end to devastating practices, which are a source of inequality and tension throughout the world. We must lead without delay this major fight for the future of humanity, without delaying the progress, even modest, which is within reach. I have no doubt that this House will be able to make this important step that we are proposing today. We have a great opportunity to show that the diversity of our political forces is a wealth for democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u187	[[Smile]] Finally, a text that will be adopted today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u188	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u189	We should have written it first!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u190	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u191	[["Ah! » and applause on the benches of the GDR and NG groups]] Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, if one subject is likely to be unanimous in this House, it is indeed that of tax havens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u192	Bravo! It's a good start!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u193	This is a subject that is mobilising you, Mr Roussel, and which is mobilising as much, I know, on the benches of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u194	It's not safe! We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u195	Indeed, it is a matter of protecting our finances and public policies and, even more deeply, of enforcing tax justice, which is a fundamental expectation of our citizens. Like you, the Government has fully addressed this issue, and we are pursuing with determination the same objectives: strengthening tax transparency, combating tax optimisation and harmful taxation, and fair taxation of digital giants. France is at the forefront of the fight against all forms of tax fraud and evasion, both internally and internationally. In June, we signed the OECD Convention on the Erosion of Tax Bases and Transfer Pricing, the so-called BEPS Convention, which allows us to move forward with anti-abuse clauses. We are leading the fight to get a quick solution to tax digital giants in Europe. We promote fiscal convergence and harmonisation by supporting the ACIS and ACCIS projects – a common base and a common consolidated corporate tax base. We are also very committed within the European Union to making it compulsory, at European and international level, to declare tax arrangements by intermediaries which favour abusive arrangements. On all these fronts, France's action to combat tax optimisation aims to create a dynamic with other states and, in some cases, in particular in the digital economy, to work towards a recast of international rules. Both the OECD and the European Union are committed to enforcing international standards, both in terms of transparency and in the fight against harmful taxation. This led the European Union to draw up a list of 17 non-cooperative states and territories in December 2017. France supported this initiative from the outset and insisted that the list should be based on strong and robust criteria and accompanied by countermeasures. Today, this blacklist is evolving, as some States and territories concerned have made compliance commitments. However, the pressure does not weaken, on the contrary: we will ensure that, by the end of the year, these states scrupulously comply with all the commitments made, otherwise they will again be included in the European blacklist as early as 2019. This list is a first step that I think is powerful, but not enough. Challenges remain. First, effective and dissuasive countermeasures must be applied in a coordinated manner against the States and territories on the list. This is the will of the European Commission and it is ours. This is not yet the case, and we must persevere in convincing some of our reluctant partners to do so. France will set an example and apply sanctions. We are also considering how the European list can be transposed into our law in the most ambitious way possible. This reform, which involves legislative change, will take place this year. Therefore, Mr rapporteur, we can only agree with the objectives of your proposed law, which aims to amend Article 238-0 A of the General Tax Code in order, on the one hand, to transpose the criteria of the European list into French law and, on the other hand, to apply strong countermeasures to the States which are to be included in our national list. On the other hand, we differ on the legislative translation to be given to this fight. The main thrust of the Government's proposal is as follows. With regard to the criteria set out in the French framework for the fight against non-cooperative states and territories, we will propose to add to the criteria of our national list – I say "add" rather than "substitute" – the criteria of the European list. The current criteria that lead a particular State or territory to be included in the French list will remain in place. We will therefore continue to punish, under the current conditions, those States that refuse to cooperate and exchange specifically with France. With regard to sanctions, we will propose a proportionate approach based on the criteria, which will be broadly understood, depending on the seriousness of the shortcomings they cover. One of the objectives of this approach will be to target particularly aggressive offshore tax regimes, which seek to attract the most mobile assets and result in tax revenue losses for States. These devices allow empty shells to persist, which seems unacceptable to us. Expectations and requirements are strong for optimization devices. That is why we believe it would be legitimate to apply a wider range of countermeasures. With regard to the criterion of tax transparency, the States included in the European Union list are already taken into account by the French system. This is the subject of Article 238-0 A of the General Tax Code in its current version. Finally, States on the European Union list on the basis of the criterion for the effective implementation of measures resulting from the work on the erosion of tax bases and transfer prices cannot be subject to the same level of countermeasure. There is a simple reason for this: country evaluation campaigns have not yet started, for all the standards defined by the OECD. Finally, we wish to retain the possibility of updating at least annually, as planned today. The European list would therefore not be intended to automatically integrate into the French list in real time. As you can see, we are preparing concrete proposals, which we will put to your vote before the end of the year. The Government's project will follow the recommendations of the Council of the European Union, strengthen our internal system against tax fraud and evasion by making it consistent with the European approach, and encourage non-cooperative states and territories to comply with the European Union criteria. Even if it goes in the right direction, the bill we are considering today would not, in our view, address all the issues related to the fight against fraud and tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u196	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u197	Let me explain to you the reservations of the Government. In Article 1, you are planning a reform of Article 238-0 A of the General Tax Code. Its principle is to create a new national list of non-cooperative states and territories based on four alternative criteria. Failure to comply with at least one of these criteria would imply inclusion on the national list. This proposal calls for several comments by the Government. By replacing section 238-0 A of the CGI in its current form, you would remove any national criteria on the effectiveness of the exchange of information in a bilateral context. This would deprive France of a tool to punish States and territories that refuse to apply the rules of transparency with it, in favour of more general criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u198	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u199	In addition, this article provides for the inclusion of States on the national list according to OECD criteria or selected by the European Union, but does not refer to the decisions of these institutions. France would therefore be obliged in certain cases to assess, independently of these bodies, whether or not the States or territories comply with the criteria they have defined, at the risk of not being able to assess all the criteria, or even to diverge. Secondly, the proposal could lead to the use of the criteria defined by the European Union to include one of its Member States in a national list, which would be contrary to the functioning of the list as published by the Council. Indeed, tools already exist at Community level to combat tax fraud and tax evasion: the Directive of 12 July 2016 establishing rules to combat tax evasion practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market, the Commission's proposal for a directive to empower tax advisers who create aggressive tax optimisation schemes...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u200	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u201	...– text planned for the first half of 2018 – finally work on the common corporate tax base. We are not naive: we are aware of the progress that still needs to be made within the European Union to combat fiscal optimisation. This is a project that is ahead of us, but which, in our view, involves tools other than the list of tax havens that we are talking about today. Finally, your list provides for the exclusion, as a matter of principle, of the least developed countries, according to United Nations criteria, provided that they are not financial centres. This proposal seems dangerous to me because these countries could see it as an incentive to adopt harmful tax measures, or at least to be discouraged from joining international standards, for which they are receiving technical assistance from the OECD or major donors. In Article 2, you plan to prohibit credit institutions whose head office is in France from exercising in a non-cooperative State or territory, within the meaning of Article 238-0 A, or in a State or territory in which they would be subject to a privileged tax regime, within the meaning of Article 238 A of the General Tax Code. In addition to the fact that this provision would send an unnecessarily negative signal at the very moment when France tends to take a prominent place in the banking and financial ecosystem,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u202	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u203	Now we have a better understanding of the previous provisions: France is seeking to become a tax haven!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u204	... this measure would not make the current system more effective. All the French anti-abuse measures linked to the concept of a privileged tax regime may already apply to credit institutions. Similarly, your measure would not concern activities carried out by French groups since foreign settlements, such as those highlighted in the Panama paper case. Indeed, these foreign establishments are subject not to the monetary and financial code, but to the regulation of their country of establishment. Finally, credit institutions are subject to a country-by-country tax and income reporting obligation, in accordance with European regulations. These obligations encourage institutions to take responsibility by giving everyone access to this information. An analysis of these data to identify activities related to tax evasion or avoidance can thus be carried out by all stakeholders, such as non-governmental organisations. This transparency approach also allows the identification of countries where the business of the institution has the normal characteristics of a banking activity, without penalising the international development of enterprises or access to international banking services in the countries concerned. For all the reasons set out, I will therefore support the referral of the bill to committee. However, we will have an opportunity to discuss all these issues again when we discuss the Government's proposal to integrate the European list into the current system. I also know that Parliament wants to be more closely involved in the process of determining the list of non-cooperative states. It is also a legitimate aspiration of our majority. The purpose of your bill is for the Government to submit a report to Parliament after publication of the list, within a time limit. When we have the opportunity to discuss this issue again, I have no doubt that parliamentarians, on your benches or on others, will be able to make similar proposals to the Government to best involve the representatives of the nation in each stage of updating the list. Let us know today that the Government will only be in favour of these proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u206	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u207	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the years go by, scandals follow each other, but tax fraud and evasion continue to cost our country between EUR 60 billion and EUR 80 billion every year, and almost EUR 1000 billion to the European Union. These figures are staggering, even dizzying, and our fellow citizens no longer accept them. They can't stand them anymore and they're right. How would they accept them, while, at the same time, the "hard reforms", the "sacrifices", the "reductions of public expenditure", decided in series and taken by ordinances, apply so quickly and strike so hard the most fragile? In your opinion, how many hospital beds, how many teaching posts, housing, nursery or university places, and emergency accommodation could have financed this lost money? What a loss of space, to think of tomorrow's world in greater, more innovative and more beautiful! At the same time, the decisions necessary for a political and effective fight against tax evasion are often delayed, and are systematically delayed. Even today, do you once again intend to postpone the bill that we support, on the sole pretext that it comes from the opposition? In the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, no one can claim a monopoly on constructive initiatives. Beyond the divisions that you are inclined to question, putting an end to tax evasion must be a great, a very high priority for the country, especially for us parliamentarians, who must take our responsibilities, because it is we, the representatives of the people, who have the tremendous opportunity and the ability to make the law. Fabien Roussel has just shown how a new French list of tax havens would be a relevant tool. The challenge of identifying territories that are exempt from international tax cooperation must naturally lead us to propose harsher sanctions, because it raises the question of social and fiscal justice. Directly inspired by European work, the criteria chosen are adapted to current tax practices. That is the strength of the bill. The rapporteur's work, which has led to amendments from all sides adopted in committee, provides details so that this mechanism can enter into force in 2019. As a result of a transparent drafting procedure, which involves us as parliamentarians, and based on the sanctions already provided for in the General Tax Code, our initiative proposes a relevant balance to combat tax havens effectively. The determination does not prevent lucidity: we recognize that this French list of tax havens is not the miracle solution to combat tax evasion. Initiatives have been taken, but the essential thing remains to be done, because fraud and tax evasion are not a dysfunction: they are one of the workings of financial capitalism, a wonderful system that allows some to earn 3 billion euros in an hour when others experience misery at work. This wheel perfectly illustrates the desire for endless accumulation and lawless grabbing. So let us say this: only a strong political will, without flaw, without delay, on all the benches of this assembly and well beyond, can lead us to solutions supported by the decisive and courageous action of associations, journalists, whistleblowers, all those who risk their work, sometimes their life and their freedom to reveal the heart of the system: the money that keeps a world, that of globalized financial capitalism. Tax avoidance, evasion, fraud or aggressive optimisation not only violates the laws but also the republican values that we represent. They undermine freedom; They trample on equality; They torpedo fraternity, and with them democracy and living together. Europe is being gangregnated by this scourge. At the French borders, at the heart of historical Europe, are some of the most aggressive tax jurisdictions: Luxembourg, the Netherlands, but also Ireland, the first of the least so-called fiscal lines. Harmonization projects between European States are now on the table. We welcome this progress. But convergence rules must be well defined: differences in legislation are such that the most mobile players, first and foremost multinationals, benefit from it with an insolent ease. Is there a need for fiscal harmonization? Yes, but this must be done from the top, avoiding competition from some European states for the hypothetical purpose of attracting capital, improving their competitiveness and increasing their tax attractiveness. France is not on this point with the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, the reduction of corporate tax, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u208	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u209	...the flat tax and the abolition of the tax on wealth, which this year will cost citizens almost 9 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u210	Don't confuse everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u211	This trajectory is of particular concern. The Eurodad report published at the end of 2017 indicates that if business tax cuts continued at an equal rate, the corporate tax rate could be 0% by 2052. Is this our project? Is that really the signal you want to send? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We do not ask you to say what you would do with the €80 billion in potential revenue from tax evasion and evasion. Perhaps you would still choose to distribute them to the richest instead of injecting them into the public services,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u212	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u213	... – but that's not what we're asking you. Today, we propose that you bring this money into the nation's budget, which we, the people's representatives, are responsible for debating and voting democratically. The question of the role of banks is also raised – these banks that France and Europe came to help ten years ago cannot escape the law. They cannot be allowed to do so when they finance certain activities, such as those that lead to climate change. It is this problem that is being addressed by section 2 of the bill. You see, ideas exist. Priorities must now be set. And yet, as soon as the first work on tax harmonisation is undertaken at European level, new threats appear with the Brexit and Donald Trump's tax policy. Clearly, part of the solution lies in France, because we cannot refer everything to the European level. This is the subject of Article 1. Very quickly, we will have to blow Bercy's lock and seriously consider including in our Constitution the fight against tax evasion. Another part of the solution lies in Europe, with the tax harmonisation I mentioned, but with a genuinely protective status for whistleblowers. Finally, global solutions: the OECD's work since the 2008 crisis has been innovative. They've made progress. That said, everyone is far from being gathered around the table of this organization, which is the club of rich countries. Largely absent from international negotiations, developing countries are the massive victims of tax evasion, the prey of multinationals comfortably settled in tax havens to the detriment of local populations. We are also taking advantage of this debate to renew our request, which was supported two years ago by almost all of the House, and which was supported yesterday by our fellow senators: France must be at the initiative of the meeting of a major conference of the world's tax parties. It would consist of elected representatives, representatives of nations, whistleblowers, journalists, intellectuals, citizens and associations. Indeed, it is time to move to a higher speed. I am thinking of a phrase from one of our honourable senators, Eric Bocquet: "As greenhouse gases make holes in the ozone layer, tax havens make holes in public finances. It is this essential question that brings us together today. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Is the Government ready to work with parliamentarians? Will the parliamentary majority be able, without delay, to work with the opposition on this fundamental issue? Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity today to answer these questions with actions and not just words. I therefore invite you to the initiative – the parliamentary initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u215	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u216	Mr President, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, and the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, there is very little consensus in this House. One example is the issue of tax havens, and more broadly that of tax evasion. If we are to rejoice, we must also be wary of it. First of all, we must welcome this, because it is only by acting together, in a concerted manner, that we will be able to make progress on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u217	But...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u218	While fraud, evasion and optimisation are separate subjects, all three practices result in the deterioration of the social pact, the reduction of tax consent and the depletion of public resources. That is why we must act, without making our fellow citizens believe that the problem is simple and that it can be solved easily. I believe that we must also not be content with this consensus. Indeed, the topic of tax evasion offers us an opportunity to see the inertia that can seize public officials when the stakes are international, they are confronted with powerful interests and national companies are involved. In this case, it is no longer enough to agree: we must move forward and decide on the way forward. Your proposal, dear Fabien Roussel, once again highlights – and it is beneficial – the practices of tax evasion and avoidance, which we condemn. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the quality of your work, which we have already seen in committee. We agree with the principle of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u219	Another little effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u220	In this area where too much confusion persists between fraud, escape and aggressive optimisation, the principle of a list, clear, short and above all public is the right one. It is part of the practice of name and shame,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u221	In English, please! We're in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u222	...which proved its worth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u223	It's working well, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u224	The President of the Republic referred to it again today, as part of the International Women's Rights Day, by proposing that it be applied to companies that do not meet the criteria of equality between women and men. However, the consensus established in our Assembly to combat tax evasion and fraud is not enough at this stage: it is indeed at other levels that the actors must take all their responsibilities. The fight against tax fraud and tax evasion was one of the Government's priorities, as the Secretary of State had explained earlier. It is also one of our parliamentary majority, of which a representative is speaking before you. With regard to tax evasion, first of all, the Government will present, as you know, in a few weeks' time a plan of action against tax evasion that goes beyond the mere question of tax havens – even though this one, I agree, is essential. It will be the subject of a bill that will be before this House at a later date. As regards optimisation, the Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Le Maire, took an initiative at European level to introduce a 2% to 6% tax on the turnover of digital giants, the famous GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u225	We've already offered it here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u226	Proposing to tax them on turnover – even if this is not an ideal solution, it seems the least bad – is a novelty. This initiative, which is supported by many European ministers, should be discussed on 21 March when the European Commission presents its proposals on digital taxation. At the same time, this did not prevent our Assembly from taking on the issue of combating tax fraud and tax evasion in a completely complementary manner. As a reminder, during the debates on the 2018 Finance Bill, our majority passed an amendment to deprive the fraudsters who committed the most serious offences of their civil rights. Within the Committee on Finance, an information mission on tax optimisation and tax evasion has been set up: it is chaired by our colleague, Jean-François Parigi, from the group Les Républicains. In fact, you are a member, Mr. Rapporteur. Having said that, I stress the scale at which tax fraud and evasion must be combated. Our answer to The Republic on the move is still European: if it is not the only appropriate level, the European level is relevant to transnational subjects. While the European Union's blacklist, published earlier this year, is certainly limited – I agree – it nevertheless provides a solid basis for building a coordinated, powerful and effective European policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u227	The good joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u228	This list is very short!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u229	First of all, there are practices that are clearly illegal under EU law: several investigations could lead to sanctions of the same kind as the one imposed on Ireland in 2013 – for the record, the fine was EUR 13 billion. I come to aggressive tax practices. Yesterday, the European Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs, Taxation and Customs, Pierre Moscovici, once again denounced aggressive tax planning, this time appointing – as you know – seven EU countries: Belgium, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and the Netherlands. They must now assume their responsibilities. If your bill is therefore a step in the right direction, the national level remains, at this stage, too small.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u230	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u231	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] However, we count on your work, my colleague, as well as on the fact-finding mission I mentioned, to enrich our common thinking when we look at the future anti-fraud and tax evasion bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u232	At Saint Martin, the poor will not become rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u233	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u234	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Georges Pompidou, whose clarity we must bear in mind, said: "Fraud is taxed what the shadow is to man. Indeed, he had fully understood the ravages that tax fraud could cause. We cannot deny, in fact, the disastrous consequences of tax fraud or tax evasion: they weigh the revenues of the state, undermine our public finances and undermine our republican pact, while penalizing all those who consent to the tax. We also deplore tax avoidance strategies: although they are often legal, they are sometimes pushed to their climax and are just as damaging to our economy. Some tax firms, as we have seen recently, have real treasures of ingenuity in order to allow their customers to pay as little tax as possible in their country of origin. The damage to tax evasion and evasion is therefore considerable for European countries: if the tax shortfall for the Member States of the European Union is estimated at almost EUR 1000 billion, it would amount to almost EUR 60 billion for France. These figures are obviously dizzying, as our public deficit and debt reach huge amounts and pose a considerable risk to future generations. We cannot therefore stand by: we have a responsibility to find ways and means to put an end to these unacceptable behaviors. Nevertheless, this bill by our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, however laudable it is in its intention, seems to us, alas, to be missing its target. According to its authors, in particular Fabien Roussel, this text should make possible the emergence of a French list listing non-cooperative states or territories in tax matters more fair than the European list. However, a national list is not an appropriate solution: an isolated initiative could prove ineffective and exacerbate the confusion between the various lists of tax havens. It could even prove counterproductive by penalizing only French banks or credit institutions, while their foreign competitors, sometimes far less virtuous, would get away with it. Indeed, there are already a large number of lists of tax havens, with contours and criteria for variable applications. We can even talk about real competition between existing lists. These, moreover, respond to very different logics, which we can regret. If the current French list is based on objective criteria, the OECD list uses qualitative criteria. Finally, the main purpose of the European Commission's list is to exert political pressure on certain countries in order to change their tax behaviour. These lists are supplemented by other lists, such as independent lists drawn up by certain non-governmental organizations, associations or research organizations. Such dispersal undermines their legibility, legitimacy, effectiveness and credibility: an additional list – since that is what you are proposing, dear colleague – drawn up on the basis of partially subjective criteria, would only accentuate the current fragmentation and lack of readability. Rather than trying to draw up a new list, on Parliament's initiative, it would be preferable to unify the existing lists, to establish one at the international level: it is the only way out to combat tax evasion effectively and thus avoid penalizing those states that are the only ones to follow virtuous rules. To establish a reliable, internationally recognised list and impose sanctions on it will, of course, require a great deal of voluntarism on the part of both France and Europe if they want to convince all their partners. France has often been at the forefront in this area. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to the courage shown in 2009 by Éric Woerth and the government of François Fillon...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u235	We can trust them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u236	... when they had intervened in favour of the lifting of bank secrecy. As for Europe, it is gratifying that the European Commission has just denounced the aggressive tax practices of seven European countries: Belgium, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and the Netherlands. Indeed, it was more than regrettable that European countries were systematically protected, even though some of them carried out tax dumping that was extremely harmful to their neighbours. Finally, in the absence of international harmonisation, aggravating the penalties incurred by prohibiting credit institutions with head offices in France from exercising in non-cooperative states would probably be contrary to the freedom to undertake business. Above all, this would distort competition between French banks and their competitors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u237	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u238	Poor people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u239	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] While we therefore welcome the rapporteur's willingness to remedy these difficulties by way of amendment, his initiative only partially resolves the problem. Of course, we must fight tax fraud and evasion, but the method proposed here is not a good augury. That is why Members of the Republican Group will not vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u240	Fortunately you are not very numerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u241	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u242	Between €60 billion and €80 billion: this is the estimated amount of tax revenue that France would escape each year as a result of tax evasion. Beyond this amount, which corresponds little or no to that of the State's annual budget deficit, it is mainly issues of consent to tax, tax justice and equality before the law that arise here. As was unanimously pointed out in the discussion of this bill in the Finance Committee, global coordination would be necessary to effectively combat tax havens. Given the magnitude of the task, sometimes complicated by the fact that some countries do not have the will to resolve this issue, each State has the responsibility, at its own level, to take the necessary measures. These must be inspired by the desire, on the one hand, to bring about a consensus on this subject, through regional – if not global – cooperation, and, on the other hand, to combat this scourge effectively at every level. It is in this sense that we should welcome the results of the work carried out by the European Commission: it resulted in a common list of 17 countries, published in December 2017, even though, as of January 2018, it had only nine. We know how long and difficult consensus is to find at European level; The conclusion of this list is only more remarkable and promising. Promising, because this is only a first step: in the absence of a component with dissuasive sanctions, the European list is, as it stands, only informative. Another source of weakness is the possibility of leaving the list by simply sending a letter of commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u243	Thank you for saying that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u244	The work started at European level must therefore be strengthened and gradually completed. France has committed itself in particular to defending the implementation of a dissuasive sanctions component. It is within the framework of this strong commitment that our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left wish to revise the criteria and sanctions regime of the French list of tax havens. We would like to thank the rapporteur, Fabien Roussel, for the quality of the work he has done on this bill, drawing in particular on the criteria of the European Union. More in detail, I would like to stress our full support for the provisions for a debate in both assemblies on the basis of this list and the attached report by the ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u246	This will enable us to follow up on the issue and enrich our discussions, for example in the context of bilateral tax treaties. As regards the aspect of sanctions provided for in Article 2, we maintain the position that we have defended in committee. This article does not seem appropriate to us; the sanctions component must be thoroughly worked on and subject to an impact assessment, so that the sanctions are relevant, effective and dissuasive. The preparatory work for the draft law on combating fraud will contribute to this. In particular, our group proposes to study the relevance and feasibility, both legal and technical, of a low-rate tax on financial flows between France and the states or territories on the list of tax havens. I now come to the criteria. As I said, these are close to those used by the European Union to make up the list last December. They are based in particular on the work carried out within the OECD, particularly on ways to combat tax base erosion and profit transfer, commonly referred to as "BEPS" – the base erosion and profit shocking – and on those of the World Forum. However, as it stands, these criteria seem difficult to apply: there is a risk that only partial information and/or almost all States and territories will be included on the list, which would discredit it. Indeed, certain criteria, such as the evaluation of the implementation of anti-BEPS standards, are now not very effective, and they will not be updated on an annual basis: one cannot therefore prevent a State that has implemented these recommendations from quickly leaving the list of tax havens. The setting of criteria and their evaluation require long and thorough work, particularly in the area of impact assessment. At this stage, this work could not be carried out, despite the will of our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, mainly because of the absence of a structure of expertise dedicated to carrying out impact studies of the proposals of the parliamentarians. Last month, our colleagues Jean-Noël Barrot and Jean-François Eliaou drafted, in collaboration with David Thesmar, a forum on the subject, so that Parliament could establish a proper structure for evaluating public policies. It is for these reasons that our group will ask that this bill be referred back to committee. If the French list of tax havens is no longer updated annually, as was planned at the time of its creation, France has a strong and ambitious voice on this subject at European level, and it needs to set an example at international level. A referral to the committee would make it possible to engage together, on the basis of the work carried out by the rapporteur, an in-depth reflection on the criteria which will serve as a basis for the implementation of a deterrent and adapted sanctions component, within the framework of the draft law on combating tax fraud, announced for the summer. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] More than ever, France must be at the forefront of this struggle. At a time when everyone is involved in the recovery of our country, it is our responsibility to be extremely firm. We must, I dare say, give life to fraudsters and tax havens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u247	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u248	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering a proposal for a law to create a new French list of tax havens, a proposal put forward by our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, no doubt, as Mrs Louwagie has already pointed out, in the idea of making Georges Pompidou lie, who said: "Fraud is to the tax what the shadow is to man. " The many recent tax evasion scandals – Luxleaks, Panama paper or Paradise paper, to name but a few – have shown how much tax havens remain of burning news. Despite indescribable progress, international, European and French efforts continue to undermine the harmful and non-cooperative practices of some countries. Under the mandate of President Nicolas Sarkozy, we were already announced the end of harmful tax practices – the rest of the events showed that such an assertion was somewhat anticipated. This bill comes in a context where tax evasion is at a record level. It is estimated that tax avoidance and optimisation would deprive the European Union of EUR 1000 billion and France of EUR 60 to 80 billion each year. Yesterday, Wednesday 7 March, Pierre Moscovici, European Commissioner for Taxation, presented on behalf of the Commission the annual analysis of the economic and social situation in the Member States. This analysis shows no fewer than seven European Union countries for their so-called "aggressive" tax legislation: Belgium, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and the Netherlands. The new national list of tax havens that the drafters of the bill wish to create would complement a set of already existing mechanisms that list tax havens. However, it should be noted that most of these lists come from different organizations, are not harmonized and have different results. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which is generally regarded as the reference organization for listing tax havens, is the first organization to have given a global definition of this concept. It defines criteria for the classification of countries. Yet, strangely enough, the OECD blacklist to date contains only one country: Trinidad and Tobago. As a matter of observation, it is surprising, even though efforts have been made by that country, that Panama, at the heart of a vast tax scandal, is among the countries that "widely" respect the international criteria in this regard. Some observers regret that, in addition to drafting the list, which was established in July 2017, threatened countries have increased contacts with the OECD to avoid falling into this category. At European level, classification is considered imperfect. Indeed, in the logical continuity of the Paradise Papers scandal, the European Union, through the Council for Economic and Financial Affairs, established at the end of 2017 a list aimed at identifying tax havens. This announcement was accompanied by lively debates, particularly by the British, who housed many offshore financial centres under their flag: the Isle of Man, the Cayman Islands and even Bermuda. In particular, Brussels has sought to target countries that allow "letterboxes", i.e. structures that do not have any real activity. However, it was decided that the countries of the European Union would not be included in the list, despite questionable practices on the part of Malta, the Netherlands or Ireland. The criteria for listing are the refusal to exchange information, the existence of harmful preferential tax measures and the non-implementation of OECD measures against aggressive tax optimisation. On 23 January 2018, the list was reduced to nine States or territories: Bahrain, Guam, the Marshall Islands, Namibia, Palau, Samoa, Saint Lucia, and Trinidad and Tobago. All other States would have provided sufficient commitments – to note that Morocco had barely escaped listing its name. At the same time, there was a "grey list", which lists fifty-five jurisdictions whose tax practices would be harmful, but which would advance commitments deemed serious. These include the British dependencies. However, there is no specific sanction on the list. Some non-governmental organisations draw up their own classification, like Oxfam, which regrets that some European states are not on the European blacklist – starting with the Benelux countries, Malta and Ireland. In order to establish its blacklist, Oxfam has taken over the criteria of the European Union; at least thirty-five non-member countries should appear on it. And then there is the French list, which dates back to 2016 and consists of seven states: Brunei, Nauru, Niue, Panama, the Marshall Islands, Guatemala and Botswana. However, the criteria are very weak: France considers only transparency; the European Union has stricter and more demanding criteria. On the other hand, the French legal arsenal against tax havens and those who transfer their profits there is a deterrent. We therefore have good legislation from this point of view, but because of criteria that are not relevant, it applies to a list that is far too short. Article 1 of this draft law introduces new criteria for defining, in line with the work of the OECD, the exchange of information and the fight against the erosion of tax bases, and it targets tax practices harmful to cooperation, such as opacity or the creation of legal structures without real activity. Article 2 introduces a binding provision prohibiting French credit institutions from exercising in countries identified as tax havens. This proposal for a law by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left seems to us to be balanced. I welcome the attentive and serious work of our colleagues, in particular that of my colleague from the North, Fabien Roussel. However, the problem cannot be solved by drawing up a national list of tax havens. In our view, this is not the right approach: the problem cannot be solved within a national framework, everyone is aware of it. Such a bill can only be inescapable. I therefore call on my colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, even if their text is of good quality, to change the scale of reflection and defend this initiative at international or, at least, European level – even if, in this area, the European framework or that of the OECD is likely to be too narrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that you draft a European motion for a resolution, which will probably be more effective in amplifying and supporting the Government's action, in the spirit of what we voted last Tuesday, with great unanimity, on the ban on electric fishing. With this in mind, and for all the reasons I have just mentioned, the IDU Group, Action and Independents, will not support your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u249	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u250	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after the Committee on Finance discussed the draft law tabled by our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left fifteen days ago, the time has come to consider in plenary this text aimed at creating a French list of tax havens. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the pedagogy he has shown in order to show us the relevance and consistency of his approach. He even went so far as to propose to us the commission broadcast of a small film. I must say that it was particularly instructive to launch our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u251	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u252	I am more convinced of pedagogy than ever before. Indeed, we are living a particular moment at the very least. While the imagination of true specialists in tax evasion, who are masters in the art of scaffolding strategies of optimisation and tax circumvention, does not weaken, at the same time we are witnessing the spread of a methodically organized discourse, aimed at undermining the very principle of taxation and its redistributive character. While some media, in which so-called "experts" and "economists" intervene in this sense, contribute, the effects of your political choices are also beginning to be felt and they are not for nothing in the feeling that is taking hold of our fellow citizens. Our pensioners, who have been hit hard by the increase in the widespread social contribution, can testify to this. As a result, misunderstanding of the tax system increases and the level of consent to tax decreases. However, in recent times, under the malignant influence of snow and different weather conditions, everyone has been able to see that our public services are more necessary than ever. Without tax education, we cannot have strong public services for our fellow citizens, especially the most fragile of them, when they need them. In short, for those who doubt it, the news is there to remind us of the relevance of the approach presented to us this afternoon. And the figures, implacable, resonate like a sentence; They reveal a form of failure of the public power to act, and in so doing invite us to react. According to several studies, the amounts hidden in tax havens are estimated at between $5,000 billion and $10,000 billion. No less than 50 per cent of global transactions would pass through tax havens, with 4000 banks and 2 million front companies. Moreover, according to economist Gabriel Zucman, $6000 billion would be held by households on offshore accounts, of which $200 billion by French residents. As for French companies, they would hold EUR 370 billion on such accounts. Finally, and in order to complete the heating of our calculators, each year tax evasion and fraud in France would amount to between 60 and 80 billion euros. Thus the context, as well as the observation we make in our territories, would suffice on their own. In this regard, the bill is a useful step in strengthening the various provisions that have been adopted in recent years in the area of transparency and the fight against tax havens: I am thinking in particular of the creation of black lists of tax havens in several countries. At European level, while there are three criteria – transparency, tax fairness and adherence to internationally recognised measures against aggressive tax optimisation – it is important to note that several exemptions are provided and that the blacklist comes into direct competition with a less restrictive grey list. In substance, Article 1 will have several merits, in addition to proposing broader and more qualitative criteria for the definition of tax havens. The current wording of Article 238-0 A of the General Tax Code contains an unfortunate gap, in that it does not take into account the quality of tax cooperation. Article 1 does not automatically exclude the member countries of the European Union from the list of non-cooperative states and territories – ETNC. On the other hand, it automatically excludes the least developed States and territories, which do not have financial centres, and sets a precise timetable for updating the list every year. Finally, it obliges the Government to justify its choices every year before Parliament – that would be good news – through the submission of a report. As for Article 2, it is of dual relevance. All tax haven surveys highlight the role of banks in tax avoidance. The fight against tax havens must therefore be based on two legs: defining ETNCs and providing credible sanctions against structures operating in these states and territories. Beyond a shared observation, the New Left Group wishes to continue, by voting on this text, a fight for tax transparency. This fight must be part of a much more global perspective. Once the texts have been adopted, we must make every effort to ensure their full legal effectiveness. Beyond the legal aspect, we can see that this is first and foremost a political struggle. Thus, I wonder about the group attitude La République en marche. "This is only a step in the fight against fraud; the text is incomplete; Since the problem is not Franco-French, it must be dealt with in a wider area," it was said in committee. Why, then, have you not improved the text with amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u253	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u254	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u255	[[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] By refusing to confront you with the fundamental problem, by rejecting this text from the outset, you are continuing with the great parliamentary standards, in what they have worst. All this is extremely regrettable and leaves a bitter taste: you will have to explain this to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u257	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u258	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Chairman of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, they have a name and an address. Bernard Arnault, the first French fortune and now the fourth world fortune, is at the head of LVMH and a personal fortune of €58.6 billion. In 2017, it would have gained 24.3 billion euros, which is, so that we understand correctly, 66575342 euros per day, i.e. 2773973 euros per hour, i.e. 46233 euros per minute, i.e. 700 euros per second.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u259	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u260	Be aware that this man gains in a minute several years of SMIC! According to Forbes magazine, his income will have jumped by 71% in a year. Do you think that such a fortune contributes as much as it should to the national effort? Do you think we become so rich without ever cheating on common rules? Of course not. It's strictly impossible. As by chance, Mr. Arnault is quoted in the Paradise papers: he reportedly used eight law firms to house his assets in six tax havens. Besides, he's far from the only one. It would be too long and too tedious to tell these terrible exploits, but mention some other names, in order to "responsibility", as the majority says, the ultra-rich. The Bettencourt family has a fortune of 35.8 billion euros. In 2011, Liliane Bettencourt underwent a correction for not reporting 100 million euros, a sum placed in a dozen accounts abroad. In December 2016, the Regional Chamber of Accounts referred to 600,000 euros of tax evasion as part of L'Oréal's sponsorship of art. Serge Dassault, head of a fortune of 21.6 billion euros, former senator, aircraftman and owner of the Figaro, is also quoted in the Paradise papers. Between 2008 and 2012, he reportedly had seven companies registered on the Isle of Man to escape VAT on renting private jets. Patrick Drahi, with 14.7 billion euros, owns L'Express and Libération, where he cut off one third of the workforce. He is also quoted in Panama Papers. Altice, its company, is domiciled in Amsterdam, with six levels of holding between the parent company and Numericable, for example. Xavier Niel – 9.4 billion euros –, co-owner of the newspaper Le Monde, is also quoted in the Paradise papers: he would hold 50% of a Maltese company owning the Phocéa – the former yacht of Bernard Tapie. You see, as soon as we talk about yachts, there's already a suspicion of tax haven. According to Forbes France, the first five French fortunes alone accumulated 137.2 billion euros. Do you find that the money is flowing? Do you see this disintegration of wealth in your constituencies, ladies and gentlemen? Let me tell you that in Aubervilliers or Pantin, it's really not obvious. And it is like the impression that the money that is missing so much has found itself in the pocket of these ultra-rich, by a complex exercise of social predation and omission of redistribution. An exhaustive list would be endless, almost as long as that of the dead on the street, that of the dead at work, who are mostly anonymous and forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u261	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u262	Let's call the people I was quoting by name: tax deserters. Let us stop talking about "tax exiles", as if they had to go into exile, fleeing a tyrannical regime, such as Victor Hugo in Guernsey. No! They always go to Guernsey, of course, but it is by abandoning what they owe to their homeland and refusing to contribute, like everyone else, to its prosperity. It is impossible to quantify precisely the level of tax evasion, but it is estimated to be 60 billion euros – in a low range – or 80 billion – in a high range – per year for France, i.e. the amount of the public deficit, which is supposed to justify all austerity measures. Tax evasion is passing through tax havens. This money is sorely lacking in France: it is as many public services as it is, while these are the only goods of the poorest. But the money of tax evasion does not disappear in smoke: it transits through tax havens and finds itself, for example, in ultraluxe goods, which are of no use: yachts, multiple villas and luxury cars, but also watches, fur coats – cruel and useless objects. Yes, the yachts again! This money is also used to finance much less ostentatious and supposedly desirable goods. Traffickings of all kinds circulate their dirty agents: corruption, criminal networks, trafficking in arms, organs, drugs, children, prostitution or terrorist enterprises. That is all the value of tax havens: to finance goods that are of no use, or that which humanity invents worse. It is urgent to act and stop paying for words, with measurements or beautiful declarations of intent that are not followed by any effect. That is why the La France insoumée group supports this text, which goes in the right direction by creating a serious list of tax havens, updated, under the control of the French people and their representatives, based on objective criteria. The European Union is supposed to be entrusted with the creation of such a list, but it is based on the principle that member countries cannot be included in it. However, all the serious studies, such as that of Oxfam, show that Ireland, the Netherlands, Malta and Luxembourg should be included – to name but a few. In Ireland, five banks, including the Société Générale, even have a profitability of more than 100 %, and generate more profits than they do in terms of turnover. This clearly suggests that unrealised profits are reported in Ireland, especially since the tax rate is 2 % for some banks. Why don't you take advantage of it? They say to each other. Member States of the European Union are therefore leaders of large-scale tax optimisation, without being included in the list of tax havens. Since multinationals and the very rich can always place their fortunes in a tax haven, they blackmail the pusillanimous governments. It's immoral and abject. They grow fat on everyone's back, and then don't pay their dues, threatening to go somewhere else, while it's thanks to the work of all of them that they've become so rich. Sarkozy, Holland, Macron: everyone has paid for words so far. In 2009, Sarkozy, triumphal, claimed to have crushed tax havens: "Tax havens, bank fraud is over," he said. But the 2009 list was based on OECD criteria; They were extremely cowardly and allowed the pointed States to get out of it quickly. The record of the previous legislature is also very meagre: the 2013 banking reform was to force banks to publish their activities in tax havens, i.e. a very limited list of ten countries in 2013, eight in 2014 and six in 2015. Prodigious efficiency, in any case, in getting countries out of the list! The Panama paper scandal has revealed the inadequacy of this transparency mechanism. And today, it's going on. Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said, after the Paradise Papers scandal last November: "Tax evasion is an attack on democracy, against tax consent. It is unacceptable. That's right! But what's going on? One month after these revelations, the European Union decided to publish, for the first time, a blacklist of 17 tax havens. As early as 23 January, the same European Union withdrew eight countries from the list, placing them on a grey list. All governments have managed to do to combat tax havens are fine sentences and good intentions: no action has followed them, except to remove the countries in question from these lists. Nice success! [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Yesterday we learned that the European Commission blames the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Ireland for promoting "aggressive tax planning": beautiful euphemism! This, it is true, is a great effort already on the part of the Commission, when we know that its President is none other than Jean-Claude Junker, former leader of Luxembourg, former head of the Luxleaks. Belgium, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and the Netherlands would have practices that "damage fairness, prevent fair competition in the internal market and increase the burden on European taxpayers," said Pierre Moscovici. If even Moscovici sees the problem, it must be serious! Who does not remember, in fact, his famous "demanding self-regulation" for the wages of the big bosses, which has had the efficiency we know? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union – the TFEU – provides, I would remind you, that "all restrictions on capital movements between Member States and between Member States and third countries are prohibited". So, whatever Moscovici says, as long as these principles are in force, any attempt to combat tax havens at European Union level is tantamount to paying for words. So I'm afraid we're only dealing here with a swordshot in the water, as usual. It is therefore more prudent, wise and effective to establish a true list of tax havens, by voting today on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u263	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1156.u264	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the bill creating a French list of tax havens; Discussion of the bill to combat sleep merchants. The meeting is adjourned.
