ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part (No. 615, 1026).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u2	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u3	Madam President, Madam Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the bill authorizing the ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and New Zealand, signed in October 2016. This agreement replaces the 2007 Joint Declaration, which, without binding value, reflected the desire to have a legal framework for this relationship, while extending it to new areas. Today, thirteen Member States of the European Union have ratified the agreement, whose architecture follows fairly broadly the model of the agreements negotiated by the European Union in the Asia-Oceania region: I am thinking in particular of Australia, with which a comparable agreement has been signed, and which will be submitted to your Assembly in the coming months. This agreement includes four key elements. The first is respect for and promotion of the values that unite Europeans and New Zealanders, in particular democratic principles, human rights, the rule of law, sustainable development and respect for international law. The second is the deepening of our cooperation on political and security issues: the fight against nuclear proliferation is an essential clause of this agreement, which also refers to international criminal justice or development. Thirdly, it concerns technical cooperation in the economic and commercial fields, with regard to sanitary and phytosanitary issues – many barriers to trade take this form, even if there is a vicious circle generated by the return of tariffs and tariffs – public procurement or intellectual property rights. Fourthly, it addresses the issues of justice, freedom, internal security and consular protection, not to mention sectoral cooperation in research, education, energy and transport. A joint committee will meet every year to monitor the implementation of this agreement, which is part of a growing bilateral relationship between France and New Zealand: this is reflected in the recent visit to Paris by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, which concluded with the adoption of a new declaration on bilateral relations that enshrines our convergence of views on such important subjects as the defence of multilateralism, at a time when it is seriously undermined in a number of forums, the fight against climate change and the promotion of an environment-friendly free trade. It should be noted, moreover, that New Zealand is one of the only countries in which the Ministry of Commerce is also the Ministry of the Environment. This is an interesting precedent, which is fully in line with the French will to bring a strong European voice in environmental matters and sustainable development, as the action plan for the implementation of the free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada has shown. On the other hand, France is a "world country": as the overseas Assises showed a few days ago, it is fully a Pacific state, and there are intense exchanges between New Zealand and our territories in that area. Wellington supported the accession of New Caledonia and French Polynesia to the Pacific Islands Forum, which aims, inter alia, to improve connectivity in the region and to develop human exchanges. We are therefore fully members of the same ecosystem. Furthermore, the Agreement clearly contributes to the strengthening of the European Union's involvement in the Asia-Oceania area. There is a need and a mutual desire, because in this area too there is the return or affirmation of the powers, which endanger such important principles as freedom of navigation. In response to the tests carried out by certain powers in this area, we are jointly defending freedom of navigation. We also share common objectives in combating terrorism or responding to natural disasters. The growing integration of our two areas is therefore a major issue. In conclusion, I would like to say a word about the negotiations for a free trade agreement between the European Union and New Zealand, which I know is in all minds, because a mandate has been adopted. This agreement will be of particular importance in the context we know: it will illustrate Europe's ability to respond to the closure of the United States, which is disengaging massively and creating certain trade tensions, and at the same time to defend open but rule-based globalisation. The aim is to promote demanding standards and contribute to the top-down alignment of certain standards. We have agricultural and environmental sensitivities: they must be taken into account. Moreover, as you know – this point is also specified in the report – the draft mandate refers, for the first time, to the need to take into account, for each economic sector, concessions granted in other negotiations. It is therefore a first form of "global envelope" for sensitive agricultural products, which avoids excessive concessions in view of the absorption capacities of the European market and the economic balance of our sectors. It's a real step forward. We will also pay attention to the effects that these agreements could have on the French territories of the Pacific. As regards, more broadly, these trade issues, as I said at the hearing organised by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like us to report as much as possible to Parliament. I am prepared to be heard not only after each Council on trade, but also before, so that the vote in Brussels takes account of Parliament's position. In addition, I am ensuring that the Trade Policy Monitoring Committee can meet regularly, so as not to give the impression that certain subjects would be covered or not made public. As far as the method is concerned, I would add that this negotiating mandate does not include any part on investment: it is an exclusively commercial agreement, which means that only the European Parliament will speak. National parliaments will not have to do so, which makes your association before the discussions all the more important. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] These are my comments about this bill and its issues. I will listen carefully to your comments on this partnership project, which is part of an even more ambitious project, which will come into being in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u4	Mrs Olga Givernet, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u5	Madam President, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, I am very enthusiastic about this partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and New Zealand. In line with a desire to renew our relations with a friendly country, it constitutes a political dialogue agreement, which replaces a joint declaration adopted in 2007 and redefines the institutional framework for cooperation between the parties. It is less restrictive and opens up many prospects for the future, in a wider number of areas. More specifically, the agreement is based on a fundamental foundation, which relates to the values shared by the European Union and New Zealand: the defence of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, not to mention the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development, which is one of the cornerstones of New Zealand's diplomacy. In addition, there is an emphasis on security, including the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Under the common European approach, any violation of the so-called "essential" elements of human rights and non-proliferation will lead to immediate consultation of the Joint Committee, and could lead to suspension or denunciation of the agreement. In more detail, the agreement provides for a strengthened partnership in many areas, such as judicial cooperation, the fight against cybercrime, the protection of personal data, and, as I would like to stress, cooperation in culture and education. The Joint Committee provided for in the agreement met for the first time this year, at the level of the administrations, and identified a roadmap that gives us an idea of the concrete actions that the agreement will promote. These include monitoring the implementation of the Paris Agreement, providing development assistance in the Asia-Pacific region, and supporting a responsible approach to free trade that respects social and environmental standards. It is therefore a broad political cooperation agreement, which is at the same time somewhat restrictive and ambitious. I see the opening of a new promising chapter for the relationship between the European Union and New Zealand. The existing partnership, already rich, is in no way called into question: it is simply renewed. It may be recalled, for example, that New Zealand was the first state in the Asia-Pacific region to sign an agreement to participate in EU crisis management operations in 2012. There is also a joint conference on access to energy in the Pacific in 2016. Above all, I would like to stress the importance of the links between us, as Europeans, and New Zealand. In the words of the current New Zealand Ambassador to France, Jane Coombs, the European Union is a "natural" and "vital" partner. Our ties are both historical, cultural, and focused on promoting common values. The European Union is still too often perceived, on the international scene, as a trading partner above all else. The entry into force of the Agreement is, however, part of a comprehensive approach for the European Union and its member countries to strengthen bilateral and multilateral political cooperation. In the Asia-Pacific region, the presence of the European Union thus appears to be a factor of stability, if only because of the size of the funds allocated by the European Development Fund. Since the European Union is one of the main providers of development aid in the South Pacific, it is important to highlight this aspect of European action. These are many opportunities that we are creating, thanks to increased cooperation with New Zealand, which is another great nation invested in the development of the South Pacific. Thus, although the European Union is not New Zealand's first strategic partner, strong ties exist, and I can only join in the desire to strengthen them. For France, too, the entry into force of the agreement has important advantages. In the context of Brexit, the New Zealand government has already affirmed its willingness to focus on its relationship with the European Union in the future. Moreover, our bilateral relationship with New Zealand is strong and a strong friendship binds us, as the recently elected Prime Minister, Jacinda Ardern, reminded us last April during her visit to France. On this occasion, a joint commitment was made with the President of the Republic, aimed at strengthening our partnership along three lines: the fight against climate change – including its impact on small Pacific states – the consolidation of a common regional strategic approach and the promotion of a responsible approach to international trade. Moreover, France will be the only nation in the Pacific in the future European Union of twenty-seven. Strengthening the relationship between the European Union and New Zealand will also allow us to become a new privileged point of entry into the European Union. I would like to recall a fact that we tend to forget: New Zealand is, for France, a neighbouring country, close – all proportions kept – to the three overseas communities of Wallis-et-Futuna, French Polynesia and New Caledonia. In 2016, New Zealand supported the accession of French Polynesia and New Caledonia to full membership of the Pacific Islands Forum. In addition, the Assembly of French Polynesia and the Congress of New Caledonia expressed support for the ratification of the Partnership Agreement on Cooperation between the European Union and New Zealand. The Polynesian Assembly recalled the strengths of such a partnership, both for regional stability and for the Polynesian economy. The Congress of New Caledonia suggested that New Caledonia could play a role as a point of support for the European Union's action in the Pacific in the area of development assistance and humanitarian assistance. Thus, we are in the presence of a political partnership agreement with a friendly country, whose values we share. I shall now refer to the second part of the new framework for cooperation: the negotiation of a free trade agreement between the European Union and New Zealand. I have participated in the rich debates that he has raised in committee and have taken note of the concerns of our colleagues on this subject. I strongly support the commitment of the President of the Republic to promote free trade agreements that respect social and environmental standards. In this regard, I recall that France has offensive interests to trade with New Zealand. Let us also recall one important point: if the political agreement before us today is presented as one of the two pillars of the relationship between the European Union and New Zealand, it does not in any way prejudge the future free trade agreement and does not create any binding commitments regarding its negotiation or content, other than that of adopting a respectful approach to the subject – we will mention social and environmental standards earlier. I would like to stress this distinction and point out that the provisions of the political agreement on trade are such as to reassure us. Thus, Article 25, entitled "Trade and sustainable development", recalls the importance of the parties promoting trade and investment compatible with the requirements of sustainable development, including compliance with national environmental and labour law laws. Article 15 deals with health cooperation. In this respect, the parties have been bound since 1996 by an agreement on health measures applicable to trade in live animals and animal products. On the other hand, I am pleased to note that the negotiating mandate granted to the European Commission for the negotiation of the Partnership Agreement, which was released on 25 June, is in line, on many points, with the commitments made by the Government under the CETA Action Plan – Comprehensive economic and trade agreement. Thus, the provisions on the Paris Agreement and sustainable development will have to be dealt with in a specific chapter. Of course, strictly commercial chapters will have to take these objectives into account. In addition, France has been able to take account of the sensitivity of the agricultural sector and the overseas territories when drawing up the negotiating mandate. If they are not legally affected by the Agreement as they are not part of the European Customs Union, they will nevertheless be affected by its practical consequences, which explains the need to integrate their specificities into the negotiations. Finally, I will mention New Zealand's responsible approach to free trade. For several years, the imperative of sustainable development and the specificities of indigenous peoples have been integrated into the negotiations of such agreements. A programme to seek the views of citizens on future free trade agreements has just been launched. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to pass the bill. It will help to consolidate and develop our ties – as well as those of the other 26 member countries of the European Union – with a friendly country whose values we share, and which is also a valuable ally, not only in the Asia-Pacific region, but also in the international arena and in multilateral forums.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u6	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u7	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Olga Givernet for his report on the partnership agreement between the European Union and New Zealand which we are considering today. This is an important political agreement. You rightly recalled, Madam rapporteur, the strong ties between France – and more generally the European Union – and New Zealand. However, our debates in committee have essentially focused not on political agreement but on the future free trade agreement. That is why many of us have wanted the debate to take place in the Chamber. Developing issues relating to international trade and trade is, in my opinion, an important civic right for every citizen, in the light and knowledge of all. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission has decided that the next two trade agreements it plans to sign with New Zealand and Australia will not be joint agreements, which means that they will not include any investment protection arrangements. As a result, they will not be subject to the approval of the national parliaments, which is important to note. For my part, I deeply regret it, Secretary of State. Of course, this is a decision of the European Commission. However, I would like to point out that, while the Commission has exclusive competence in commercial matters, it exercises that competence by delegation of States. They therefore have the opportunity, within the framework of the European Council, to express a distinct political will.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u8	They have to have the courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u9	I would like to acknowledge the Government's willingness to change practices on this point: this is reflected in the Schubert report, the CETA Action Plan and the Trade Policy Monitoring Committee that you chair, Secretary of State. As you know, free trade agreements are a cause for concern and concern for our citizens. That is why our Assembly must contribute to the full transparency of the negotiations. I am sure you will support this. Similarly, it is up to us to be a force for proposals and to intervene before negotiations begin. In this spirit, it seems to me appropriate to proceed differently in the future. The European Council sent the European Commission the negotiating mandate for the partnership agreement with New Zealand on 22 May. I regret that we did not have a substantive debate on this subject in the House before that date, and I hope that the method will be corrected in the future. It seems to me very important for Parliament to debate the mandate in advance of the negotiations, which would allow it to launch an alert on possible subjects of concern about a particular sector and to highlight the offensive and defensive interests of the country, and would allow the Government to refine its negotiating guidelines. This will therefore be useful and relevant to all. Similarly, as it did for CETA at our request, the Government must provide the national representation with real, new-generation impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u11	And independent studies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u12	Absolutely, my dear colleague: independent! I have read the impact studies annexed to previous trade agreements – for example, the agreement with South Korea. In essence, these are transcripts or translations of those produced by the European Commission. They take a macro-economic point of view and say that the increase in trade will lead to the increase in GDP, which will be great for employment and for the economy in general.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u13	CQFD!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u14	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u15	CQFD, Secretary of State? If that were the case, with all the free trade agreements we have signed, we would already be 100 per cent higher than GDP! I therefore hope that we will have different impact assessments of the current impact studies carried out within a national framework, setting out the consequences of the proposed agreement by sector and allowing any possible negative consequences to be rectified. This is a real demand. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] More generally, I will conclude by reiterating the need to find ways to relaunch multilateral processes and to ensure that new trade regulations truly take into account its environmental dimension and meet our health, social and labour standards, while addressing the issues of reciprocity and fair trade. These are, Mr. Secretary of State, the construction sites and the road map that are in front of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u17	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u18	We're counting on you, Mr. Lecoq!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u19	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in listening to your speech, Mr Secretary of State, I was wondering what your assessment will be about.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u20	The Secretaries of State are exempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u21	I was wondering whether you will be assessed on the quality of the international treaties signed by our country, on the quality of trade or on the defence of the resulting French economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u22	It's progressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u23	However, if you are exempt from evaluation, you do not have to report!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u24	Yes, to the national representation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u25	Then you're in the right place! Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we listened very carefully to your speech. Once it is not customary on the benches of the Democratic and Republican Left, we could have signed it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u26	On ours too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u27	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u28	Mr. Secretary of State, too! However, the difference between us and the Secretary of State is that when we sign a text, we go to the end to ensure respect for its content, using all the means at our disposal to do so. And you, ministers and secretaries of state, have the supreme means, for you are in power. Since you are ready to sign the speech of the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Secretary of State, you will be judged and assessed by us. As soon as the Prime Minister does not assess you, it is the members of the National Assembly who will evaluate you, on the basis of what you have just declared – that you are ready to sign the intervention of Marielle de Sarnez.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u30	That's fine with me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u31	We, members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, have tabled a motion to reject the text beforehand in order to sound alarms about the texts relating to world trade. By its philosophy, the agreement we are debating puts forward trade – and just trade, excuse me, Madam rapporteur! Everything that does not relate to it is marginalised and barely deepened. It stems from the reflection on recent trade treaties. Its objective is to destroy national standards in order to facilitate the movement of goods, which is, moreover, rather cynical if we compare, on the one hand, efforts to facilitate the movement of goods and, on the other, the means used to prevent the movement of human beings. The text covers a very wide range of applications, not all of which deserve to be rejected beforehand, of course – we have understood, Madam rapporteur, that not everything is to be thrown away. However, I will demonstrate the reasons for our mistrust of certain provisions, which legitimizes my presence in this rostrum. Submitted by the European Union to France, this agreement reaches us, like any international text, without any possibility for us, French parliamentarians, to intervene directly on it and to amend it. Now – and this is the justification for the previous rejection motion put forward by our group – some articles have no place in the partnership agreement and open a wide gap in the application of the free trade treaty between New Zealand and the European Union currently being debated in the European Commission. The text proposes valuable articles, for example on cultural or judicial cooperation, on development aid or on research, which demonstrates laudable intentions that we strongly support – and therefore not everything should be rejected – because they correspond to the values of cooperation and friendship between the peoples we support, and not to those of competition in a world where "everyone for himself" reigns. The Treaty recalls the foundations of cooperation such as human rights, fundamental freedoms or the rule of law and provides that the parties undertake to strengthen their dialogue in several areas such as security, humanitarian aid, economic development, justice, research, innovation, education or sustainable development. However, among these rather positive articles are many dangerous provisions which we absolutely refuse. In my view, six examples are fundamental to understanding our clear and firm opposition to this text. The first is Article 22, which, on customs duties, provides that "the parties shall intensify their cooperation on customs matters, including through trade facilitation measures with a view to further simplifying and harmonising customs procedures [...]". It is not possible to sign an agreement that allows the European Union to embark once again on a new generation free trade treaty that tackles all non-tariff barriers and is the driving force behind a general lowering of health and consumer protection standards and regulations. Enough of this logic of destruction of public services, of drastic questioning of social rights and labour! Communist deputies have always fought against this type of agreement for at least three reasons: the latter place the people under the yoke of companies, they dispossess the states of their sovereign prerogatives, especially in the field of justice – threatened by private arbitration courts – and, finally, they are always negotiated in the greatest secrecy, which never gives confidence. Trade cooperation is almost free of tariff barriers. For several decades, the World Trade Organization has brought these tariffs down. Now, in order to reduce the remaining costs of trade, the neoliberal forces consider that everything that does not fall within the scope of customs barriers, that is to say, everything that falls within the scope of the norms and laws that they find inadequate. This vast project is under way and is progressing quickly. As a reminder, almost twenty-five of these treaties are under negotiation with Canada, Japan, MERCOSUR – the common market of South America, which includes Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, Chile, Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia – with Singapore, New Zealand and Australia – we are talking about it – Vietnam, Mexico, China, Tunisia and Morocco, the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Burma, and I am talking about it. The threat, of course, is that in the commercial context, it is always the least-called one that wins the negotiations. These new-generation trade treaties therefore create global dumping for the greater benefit of multinationals. Of course, in the case of standards, it is not the turnover of the small SME that will explode: it is the huge multinational company that will systematically win! The second example concerns cooperation in tax matters, as described in Article 23. Here, here, in tax matters... It's daytime! It is envisaged that, I quote, "in order to strengthen and develop economic activities, the parties recognize the need to apply fair tax competition". I am simply asking two questions, to which the rapporteur may answer: what is fair tax competition? Above all, who determines it? Is it the people who, by the voice of their representatives, will judge what is acceptable in fiscal terms or will it be the European Commission that will do so, out of sight, as it has become accustomed to doing in the field of trade treaties? Another important topic is sustainable development and respect for the planet. How can one seriously write, in a partnership agreement between two countries situated 20,000 kilometres from each other, that the priority of the agreement concerns respect for the environment? Twenty thousand kilometers away! While trade with New Zealand will be intensified, it is not possible to include in the same sentence that the parties to the agreement "reaffirm their commitment to promoting global trade and investment" and that they "recognize that they can contribute to the goal of sustainable development". It is even more laughable to see Article 45, devoted to the issue of climate change, reaffirm that the parties support "the objective of keeping below two degrees Celsius the rise of the world average temperature [...]"! I therefore propose that you reject this text and ask for a renegotiation by removing either references to trade liberalization or references to respect for the climate and sustainable development. The cynics will specify that it will be a matter of removing the reference to sustainable development, completely hypocritical, and the ecologists – we are – will ask to remove the notion of "promotion of trade". We don't want a fallback on ourselves. The alternative between free trade and stunted protectionism is only a neoliberal technique that consists of creating a monster to pose as a defender of the former. There are many alternatives to globalization. I hammer it here to anticipate the caricatures that will not fail to be done: no, being against economic free trade does not make us paranoid and xenophobic people. I leave this to our far-right enemies – who are not there today. There are many other ways. Against the savage globalization of enterprise and the widespread competition of States and populations, we propose the globalization of peoples, the intensification of non-economic exchanges: cultural, sports, intellectual, academic and friendship exchanges between peoples. What was not my surprise to discover, by reading the agreement we are talking about, Article 42, which evokes the "link between peoples". Finally, I thought that this agreement presented something ambitious, human, in favour of this fundamental part of the globalisation that we support. Of course, I was very disappointed. This article, which has just four lines, proposes only one thing: that these "linkages may include exchanges of officials and short-term internships for graduate students." "Link between peoples", is it written... What a sadness! That's Europe! Of course, you'll tell me that when you have a good idea, you try to put it back everywhere. Here we go! One of Europe's few great successes is the so-called Erasmus, which allows European students a simple and supervised mobility by the European Union. Is this the only thing that can be proposed within the framework of the links between peoples? On reading this text, we can see immediately that this is indeed the poor parent of the cooperation agreement, which is quite regrettable. The European Union must certainly have forgotten that French Polynesia was at the door of New Zealand and as such could have promoted cultural exchanges and the enhancement of the common history of Maori. We could also have valued peace in the name of the New Zealanders' commitment to the world wars that took place mainly, as everyone knows, on European territory. And what about Title III, which deals with issues of development and humanitarian aid? This bleak title, which holds in a few lines, is also very poor, unlike Title IV, relating to economic and commercial cooperation and developed on four whole pages. Cooperation on development and humanitarian aid is therefore based on information exchange between the two sides. There! That's all. I said everything! Nothing else! There would certainly be things to be put in place to enhance coordination over geographical areas, perhaps on common ambitions to finance global projects on health or global warming in risk areas such as Oceania, which contains so many fragile islands, islands and other atolls seriously threatened by rising ocean levels and acidification, which gradually kills their multiple coral barriers. This is not the case – nothing! –, and it's very disappointing. In short, the timidity of this forty-second article and Title III is scandalous. It illustrates the small number of cases that the European Union makes of these subjects. Contrary to the timidity of development aid and the link between peoples, the forty-ninth article is very short but full of hope for large livestock companies. At the turn of the second paragraph, we learn that "the areas in which measures could be envisaged include, but are not limited to, agricultural policy...". "Without limiting itself to it"... This sentence is full of hope! It is the opposite of the article on the relationship between peoples – which does not seem to be of interest to our negotiators. Here, as we can see, a simple little sentence opens up a huge breach in which the exporters of meat or agricultural products seem to be ready to intrude. Importing products from such far away areas can create environmental problems, as we produce them at home. In the case of exotic products not found in Europe, such an import could be considered justified. But no, these are products that we find at home! With the Free Trade Agreement with New Zealand, French agricultural trade unions also fear lower production costs than French costs, which means unfair competition. In addition to legitimate doubts about differences in standards, New Zealand's practice of selling meat at derisory prices is widespread, since sheepmeat is only a by-product of wool there, not the other way around. So exporting is cheap, unlike what is happening in France! The country is also a major producer of milk, producing nearly 30 per cent of world exports. Its production model is opposed to the one we support: farms are huge and very intensive, with machines at speeds up to milking ten times more cows per hour than in France. We are far from a sustainable model of small farms of polyculture-breeding that mesh the territory and produce quality food by promoting the local trade and avoiding as much input as possible! In New Zealand, the 10,000 farmers produce almost as much milk as our 90,000 French farmers! In addition, almost all of these farmers belong to the same agricultural cooperative, Fonterra, which has a significant weight since it determines the world price of milk. One can therefore fear that the price per litre will be pulled downwards, which could weaken an area already under severe stress. This is worrying for our agriculture, which suffers terribly from the pressure exerted by the agri-food industry and the margins of large-scale distribution, which suffers from the ultra-productivist economic model that has been imposed on it for years, and which suffers because the policies supported by the FNSEA – the National Federation of Agricultural Trade Unions – are only interested in large farmers without taking into account the real problems of small farmers. In an agreement like this, but also in CETA or in the agreement between the European Union and MERCOSUR, it is the big entrepreneurs in agriculture who win at the expense of the small ones, as always. These small farmers, on the other hand, will have to close the shop or settle for even lower incomes than today or will be forced to specialize in different niches. The singers of free trade will see the "invisible hand" that operates and rebalances the world, as if by magic. That's what the Secretary of State likes! However, let us look at the state of our agriculture. Free trade forces him to specialize or die, but this specialisation is dangerous because, which says specialisation of French actors in agriculture, the sectors left to non-French producers, therefore to imports. That is worrying, since it is the loss of food sovereignty in our country that is in sight. This is a serious issue because the climate changes that we are undergoing will profoundly change our long-term lifestyles. If we do not prepare a resilient and relocated agriculture today, I believe that our children will suffer greatly from this choice. Finally, another question arises when reading this agreement: Article 51 refers to employment and social affairs – it is for the parties to strengthen their cooperation in these two areas. Two questions were quickly imposed on me: what employment policy are we talking about? Since when does the European Union have an employment policy? I don't know, but Mr. Secretary of State will probably enlighten us. It seems to me that social and employment policies are still national and non-Community prerogatives. It is therefore strange to see this sector emerge in an agreement between the European Union and another State. The reflections proposed in this article on "full and productive employment" have surprised me a lot. First of all, what does "full and productive employment" mean? We could sign Communists like others: "full employment"... It makes you dream! But what does it refer to? Nothing in this deal. Secondly, what is the point in including references to employment on such a subject? We didn't find... The social policy of the European Union, we know it: it is an incentive to competition and at the end of public services to French, it is a labour code far less protective than ours before Emmanuel Macron set his course there, it is also a social protection to French in danger and a desire to privatize all the social conquests obtained by the French in the twentieth century. Today, many people are gathered in our assembly to defend the public hospital. Members of Parliament and senators in our group have brought together the living forces of the hospital, and all are trying to prevent the public hospital from dying. We can see exactly what this European regulation is about! This little chord can be seen as a Trojan horse, which will introduce the wolf into the sheepfold tomorrow. We would have applauded him for his shortcomings in the obsession with trade. To oppose economic free trade as it emerges through all these new generation agreements is, for Communist MEPs, to emphasize the fact that alternative globalization is possible. It is important to intensify cultural, intellectual and sporting exchanges. These exchanges will not kill our planet, contrary to what is being prepared before our eyes in the context of the increase in world trade. Organizing things so that the European Union can facilitate trade with a country that is geographically at the opposite ends of Europe is a crazy project. How many tons of fuel does a ship from New Zealand need to get to our coasts? If he again landed his merchandise in the port of Le Havre, I could say that it's a good thing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u32	Or Dunkirk's!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u33	...but it's not even guaranteed. Some have mentioned the idea of offsetting these carbon expenditures, but it is then large forests like France that should be grown every year! Since this is impossible, we should refrain from making so many carbon expenditures. It is better to bring in music groups, theatre troops, sportsmen or intellectuals: this will pollute less and enrich the peoples of both countries. It is therefore time for France to punch on the table and finally say that it is necessary to stop all this, to land, to think and to imagine something else, for our beautiful planet and its population, than this flight forward from capitalism towards infinite growth in a finite world. We must stop believing only in the virtues of the market: this is the meaning of the motion to reject beforehand tabled by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Because this text is an introduction to the free trade treaty between the European Union and New Zealand, I invite you to vote on this motion, on the basis of the reservations I have expressed. Since we cannot amend it, let us vote against it: we will thus signify to our governments and to the European Commission that we must do better. No one can claim to be an ecologist or protector of the planet and validate such an agreement, as it will lead to the development of ultra-intense agriculture, and given the fact that thousands of kilometres separate the New Zealand coast from the French coast – except the Pacific islands. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] For all the reasons I have put forward, I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this motion for a preliminary rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u34	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u35	We have heard your message, my dear colleague, but I believe that the vote on this motion would send a negative signal to the international community. To undermine our understanding with a friendly country would be to take a big risk. The chairman of the committee has made very wise comments, to which we have all agreed. I therefore believe that we should continue our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u36	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, a request for a public vote is being submitted to me by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, Mrs Clémentine Autain has the floor, in the case of the La France insoumée group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u37	Unsurprisingly, particularly for the Secretary of State, who is used to agreeing on the general issue of free trade treaties, we fully endorse Jean-Paul Lecoq's view and support his motion to reject it beforehand. We are, I will come back to this in the general discussion, wind up against two facts in particular. First of all, we are opposed to all the negotiations that are taking place in the utmost secrecy and that result in "new generation" free trade treaties, which are harmful to our economy and our well-being and which run counter to the Paris agreements and any ecological ambition. On the other hand, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that treaties of this nature are being negotiated without parliamentarians being consulted. The adoption and application of these free trade treaties is therefore based on a denial of democracy, since they are not accompanied by a great debate or a great popular consultation. We are dealing here with the problem of democracy, which is definitely a bad name for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u38	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u39	Of course, I call for the vote on this motion to be rejected for two main reasons. First of all, I would like to point out that Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union lists the areas in which the Union has exclusive competence, and that the common commercial policy is part of it. This means that we are opening a door today that will allow the European Union to do what it wants, without our Parliament being consulted, since it is an exclusive competence of the European Union. That is what, in our view, makes this text extremely dangerous. Secondly, in Article 25, paragraph 3, of the Partnership Agreement, a sentence particularly marked me: "Similarly, the parties recognize that environmental or labour laws, policies and practices are not to be used for protectionism in this area. This is tantamount to questioning the safeguard clause, which is intended to cover cases where unforeseen events would fundamentally upset the balance of an agreement or contract. New Zealand is now exporting 249 million euros of agricultural products to France, compared with 32 million in the other direction. The deficit therefore stands at EUR 217 million for France, and it will continue to grow, particularly in the area of dairy products, since New Zealand is the world's largest exporter, due to its particular climate, because it does not use buildings and uses fertilisation and food supplements. All this is extremely dangerous. With regard to sheep rearing, it should be noted that 75 per cent of lambs on the world market come from New Zealand. So we're going to go back to our agriculture. All this is extremely dangerous, and that is why we must firmly oppose what we are proposed to sign.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u40	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy, for the Group of the European People's Party, on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u41	Our colleagues are constantly moving the same red cloth and constantly returning to the issue of agricultural products, which is only one aspect of this agreement. However, it should be recalled that this treaty is intended to regulate matters. Today, by England, there are already tons and tons of sheep and cattle meat coming from New Zealand. The Interbev representatives told us, during the fact-finding mission on the follow-up to the Brexit negotiations, that this should not stop, because we were not able to do so in France. The agreement we are talking about introduces sanitary and phytosanitary measures, controls and guarantees on animal quality and welfare.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u42	But it excludes the safeguard clause!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u43	[["Ah! » on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We're not here! I am simply describing what is contained in this agreement, which is not a trade agreement, but is preparing a possible one. I said a "possibly" agreement, and we can't deny it! The President of the Republic spoke about it in April 2018!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u44	Read Article 25 of the agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u45	Do you prefer private exchanges of any kind? This agreement is going to set the stage, and I fully agree with what our committee chair has said – and to which you, too, have joined. There is no doubt that we need to be consulted on all future treaties, and in particular on trade treaties. I repeat that this agreement may give rise to a trade agreement, but it will only frame an already existing practice, which you seem to ignore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u46	Of course, we don't know everything because we're idiots, it's well known!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u47	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I repeat that tonnes and tonnes of meat are already imported without any framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u48	The floor is for Mr Michel Fanget, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u49	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote against this motion to reject it beforehand. As we have already had the opportunity to say, we cannot, as a matter of principle, simply reject all free trade agreements. They are the way to bring two spaces together that have a lot of things in common. Whatever we think, cultural exchanges, which you want to see developed, Mr Lecoq, go hand in hand with economic exchanges. We share your fears about our economy, and about our agriculture in particular. The chairman of the committee herself said that it was important to be clear so as not to lead to absurdities that would ruin those who, within our economy, are the most exposed. To do this, we need serious impact assessments that can inform us. Finally, with regard to Article 23 and cooperation in tax matters, the discussions we had this morning at the sitting show that we are able to move forward in this area in a concerted manner. Moreover, the assurance of the Secretary of State strengthens us in this direction. The MODEM Group will therefore reject this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u50	You'll have to explain it to the farmers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u51	Mr Christian Hutin, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u52	First of all, I would like to say to our colleague, very respectfully, that we are not agitating the red rag. Rather, we tend to cling it to our hearts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u54	I will be brief, because I think we will have the opportunity, in the next hour, to defend our arguments. But if only one argument were required to vote on this motion for a preliminary rejection, I would refer to the functioning of our Committee on Foreign Affairs. We agreed with Jean-Paul Lecoq that the comments you made earlier were exceptional, Madam Chair of the Commission. What's wrong? The fact that we are offered treaties that are decided – and not necessarily voted – in a structure that is not fundamentally democratic. And these treaties are being applied before we even vote on them here! We have the chance here to have a proposal for a convention that allows us to intervene a little upstream, which allows us to say that the whole political aspect is right for us, but that this agreement also puts the risk of opening up markets to all the winds. We are fortunate, for once, to be able to sound the alarm upstream. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It was in this sense that Mr Lecoq's intervention was fair, as was that of the chairman of the committee. It is high time that, in this House, the Committee on Foreign Affairs regained decision-making power upstream. If we could talk upstream, we would avoid having debates like the one we have today. We will therefore vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u56	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u57	In the general debate, Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u58	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill authorizing the ratification of the partnership agreement between the European Union and New Zealand aims to provide a legal framework for the economic and commercial relationship between these two actors, while extending it to new areas. I have heard here and there some boast the benefits that France could derive from a strengthened presence in Asia-Pacific. I would like to point out in the preamble that France is already present there. Therefore, why establish a new free trade agreement, from which we will emerge once again losers? This very broad political agreement prefigures future trade relations between the European Union and New Zealand. A member of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group has just made it clear to us that, behind the protocol that we are going to vote on, there is obviously a new free trade treaty, comparable to those currently under negotiation. Do we, yes or no, want to start this process of negotiation and adoption of free trade treaties? Do we want to establish economic and trade cooperation within the destructive framework of the WTO, the World Trade Organisation? That is what this debate is all about. Let me quote a few articles from the agreement that I think are particularly enlightening. Article 14 states that "the parties affirm their firm intention to work together within the World Trade Organization (WTO) to achieve greater trade liberalization". In other words, the parties promote increased agreements and trade, including through the negotiation of new agreements. Article 17 states that "the Parties recognize that it is in their common interest to reduce technical barriers to trade and agree, to this end, to cooperate within the framework of the WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade [...]". Article 25 also states: "There is no need to use environmental or labour laws, policies and practices for protectionism in this area". In fact, under the guise of harmonising relations between the two sides, this agreement works mainly to liberalise economies. We cannot accept that. Our agriculture – and not only it, I will return to it – will again be put at risk by the hyper-productivist New Zealand agricultural model. New Zealand exports a great deal of agricultural products to the European Union: 72% of its exports in 2017, worth 2.4 billion euros. Agri-food products account for 50 per cent of New Zealand's exports to France. Already heavily penalized by CETA or the agreement in preparation with the MERCOSUR countries, French farmers are rightly concerned about the prospect of an increase in imports of beef, sheep and dairy products, especially since New Zealand's agricultural model is the prototype of productive agriculture, making unfair competition to European producers. In New Zealand, farms are disproportionate: there are twice as many dairy cows as there are people. The New Zealand model, at the cutting edge of industrial modernity, allows a milking on the chain: it takes an hour to milk 600 cows, which is ten times faster than in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u59	This is crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u60	It's totally delusional, indeed. Competition under these conditions is a matter of concern, and the consequences for the environment will undoubtedly be dramatic. How can we believe that this agreement will respect the Paris agreements? What is the point of importing animal or agricultural products from the other side of the world? I don't decelerate about that. While the relocation of the economy is one of the keys to meeting the climate challenge, we are being offered, on a chain basis, agreements to increase trade. This economic logic rushes us onto a wall by engaging in social and tax dumping. Moreover, the environment will not be able to withstand unlimited exchanges. This agreement proposed for ratification is the first part of a large-scale free trade agreement, approved by the Trade Ministers of the 28 Member States on 22 May and the negotiations of which will begin this summer, in disregard of all the provisions of the CETA Action Plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u61	September!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u62	Emmanuel Macron and the government to which you belong, Mr. Secretary of State, had promised, hand over hand over heart, the exemplary implementation of CETA and its future avatars. A few months later, as we predicted, there was no such thing as this. The European Union acts with impunity with the complicity of your Government. National parliaments, which have become embarrassing, are inexorably put on the bench. Let's remember the facts, pêle-mêle, starting with the provisional application of 90% of CETA. You must remember that, Mr. Lemoyne, since we were participating together in this kind of steering committee with NGOs, various and varied partners. It was not our surprise to learn that 90% of CETA was going to be applied as soon as last year, without Parliament being consulted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u63	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u64	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In fact, we had taken advantage of our parliamentary niche to table a bill for a referendum to rule on this issue. I remember that France had refused the European Constitutional Treaty, in particular because the liberalisation of the economy, on a European or international scale, is not to the liking of the French. They do not want such development. And we're back with this CETA that nobody, and especially not the Government, wants to make public the stakes. The secret of diplomacy between states prevails in order to establish norms that will stifle our economy and our environment. In addition, we have all been amazed by the report which has been submitted to us in committee, and the President will be able to testify to this. Without any vote, an impact assessment was carried out on CETA by the Centre for Prospective Studies and International Information (CEPII), a department specialized in this type of study and attached to the Prime Minister. But let's move on. This study, as you can imagine, ignored the health and social consequences of the treaty, in an attempt to convince us of the benefits that would accrue to our economy! But as for the impact on people and the environment, it was "Circulate, there's nothing to see! It was curious and unwelcome. In propaganda, however, we were served in the Chamber when the Canadian Prime Minister came in person.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u65	He was very applauded!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u66	Not on our benches! And the hemicycle was very little stocked to the right and on the benches of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u67	Of course, he was applauded, and he even made remarks with which I could agree. He may have found the words, but most of all he told us a fable, a CETA that is not real, a CETA that is not that of the agreements. That is why he was widely applauded. All the wrong sides of CETA were wisely forgotten. It was an unacceptable propaganda. And today, the coup de grace: the new trade agreements will be split in two. On the one hand, trade arrangements will be decided in Brussels, and on the other hand, the investment part will be ratified by national parliaments. This is no less than forcing the peoples of Europe and their representatives to take the free trade pill by force. This is the meaning of the mantra repeated ad nauseam by Jean-Claude Junker: "Together, we will now negotiate win-win trade agreements that create new opportunities for our companies, while guaranteeing high standards in key areas such as sustainable development". Blablabla! The reality is much darker. The CETA buried the Paris Accords, but endorsed the arrival of GMOs and pesticides on our plates, allowing for the dismantling of the precautionary principle, the destruction of thousands of jobs in Europe and Canada, and the competition of public services. This new agreement will not escape this: the impact assessment, commissioned by the Commission, already admits that an increase in greenhouse gas emissions is to be expected, perhaps not in the area, but overall. Climate issues are still being relegated to the background, in favour of globalization that benefits only a few. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In this context, I agree with the proposal made by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to put the decision back into the hands of the peoples, to open a great debate so that it is the peoples who break down the technocracy, driven by a crazy race for the benefit of the planet and the well-being of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u69	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u70	Having had the privilege of expressing myself at length in the defence of the motion, I will be brief. Our current colleague from the Republic has done well to recall the framework for the discussion of future agreements between the European Union and New Zealand. We have the first day of the debate, as the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs wanted. These debates are not to be taken or left behind. I hope that the minister will have taken note of everything that we have been able to say and that he will take it into account, not to relay the opinion of the majority alone, but that of Parliament. The result of the vote is not the only one to be retained, because the concerns expressed by Mr Chassaigne, Mrs Autain and Mr Hutin are legitimate. They are not those of a few groups of the National Assembly, but of the majority of French citizens! The gap is impressive between the majority of the National Assembly and the majority of French citizens, who reject this type of agriculture, the products that will emerge from it, this way of organizing world trade. The Government must not only vote in favour of the majority, but must also vote in favour of French citizens. We have therefore authorized ourselves to bring the views of our fellow citizens to the rostrum of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u72	Moreover, the opinions of our fellow citizens are based on a basis that all share. All agree that the Paris agreements represent progress for the environment and sustainable development, provided that they do not remain in the state of discourse but are transformed into action. The Paris agreements must perspire in all the international agreements that we will sign.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u73	[[Smile]] Run!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u74	I give up this expression, which you use to make us believe that the richer the richer, the more the poor will have a chance to receive a little! I had planned a short intervention, but if you give me that pole, I can develop it at length! [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] The runoff, as you hear it, works in the opposite direction: the CSG – generalised social contribution –, the APL – personalized housing aids –, the reversion pensions run towards the richest. But you were right to remind me that I should not go up to this rostrum without a thought for those who will pay the mark of your policy in favour of the richest. To return to the Paris agreements, I would remind you that they must be integrated into all our policies. You have noticed the reactions of our fellow citizens to the products we put in the shelves! The French population has health requirements for food, products and animal treatment. It is in this Chamber that we have discussed this subject, the method of slaughter. However, the European Commission does not take these data into account when signing agreements with other States. It is therefore up to you, Secretary of State, to convey these views. As it stands, this pre-agreement is not acceptable. We will continue to say it loud and clear. You should listen to Mrs de Sarnez: the method you have chosen is not good because it is undemocratic. The voice of the peoples is expressed in the national parliaments. No agreement, so important for the environment, the lives of citizens, the economy of our country can be signed unless it has been previously ratified by the Parliament of our country. The majority did not want to vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. But after all these explanations, you will have understood, Mr Secretary of State, that it is necessary to vote against this agreement. This does not mean that we reject any trade agreement with New Zealand, on the contrary. We wish to establish peaceful relations with New Zealand, after overcoming the boat's affair, but not at any cost. The environment, the economy and health standards are key issues that need to be taken into account. If we manage to sign an exceptional agreement with New Zealand, then it will become the next example, rather than CETA, catastrophic for our economy. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] Marielle de Sarnez subtly raised the problem of impact studies – without insisting too much because it belongs to the majority. Mr Secretary of State, if you had participated in this meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at which we learned a great deal about those who were conducting impact assessments in our country, their means, their levels of calculation, you would no longer refer to these studies because, as they stand, they are not worthy of a modern and developed society like ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u75	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u76	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, before I enter into the discussion of the many benefits of this European agreement, I would like to say a few words about the French presence in New Zealand. Today, more than 4,500 French citizens are registered in consular registers and more than eighty French companies are present in the country, not to mention many French students on working holiday visas. Together, they forge a privileged relationship day after day and for years. Together they strengthen our historical ties. Together they promote our country in the area. Together they act for research and innovation, like the FAST association! – France Aotearoa science technology and innovation – which carries out a remarkable work of scientific collaboration between our two countries on the spot. As I speak, a New Zealand research boat, Tangaroa, has on board a team from INSERM – National Institute of Health and Medical Research – and CNRS – National Centre for Scientific Research. I want to greet her. This agreement will enable us to provide significant support to our nationals already on the spot. It is no more or less a matter of recognizing the work accomplished, of valuing their efforts, of supporting their ambitions and of showing the interest that France and its European partners have in them, they who are so far away: Paris, as I recall, is more than 18,000 kilometres from Wellington. Yes, we are already in New Zealand! Yes, we are already trading with this country! We are like two old friends who know each other and who today would like to do much more. It is therefore time to give a little solemnity to our relations, to speed them up and to offer them a more institutional framework. That is precisely what this Treaty proposes: it is not a free trade treaty at all. Before I continue, I want to warn the troubled sowers: let them understand that refusing this treaty amounts to denying these relations, trampling on the past and rejecting any common future. It must be understood that New Zealand is a key strategic partner. This European Treaty is a formidable tool of influence that will accompany the intensification of our bilateral relationship. It will allow us to better grasp the many opportunities already existing in areas crucial for New Zealanders and for us: climate change, the fight against terrorism, disarmament, research and innovation, audiovisual and media, and much more. To ratify this treaty based on our common values is to allow France to reaffirm its presence in Oceania, with its Pacific territories, is to consolidate our rise in trade in the area, in accordance with the parallel discussions and mandates adopted. Ratifying this treaty also means allowing France to simultaneously confirm its role as a promoter of environmental protection and as a partner of full cooperation, in line with the 1992 FRANZ agreement – France-Australia-New Zealand. I understand the mistrust expressed in committee by a few colleagues around this text, but these are dogmatic reservations – forgive me the term – that are fantasies rather than facts. The obvious is this: how can we talk about unfair competition over lambs when we produce less than half of what we consume in France? And their lamb is excellent, Mr. Lecoq, I can say for having tasted it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u77	[[Smile]] To each his lamb!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u78	How can we worry about the carbon footprint of agri-food imports, when they account for less than 4% of our imports into this sector? How can we worry about seeing on our tables their excellent black pinot, which I also tasted – it is very different from ours – and which will bring a very significant diversity to our demanding palates, while the export of our wines to New Zealand has grown by almost 14% again last year? Let us not forget that ratifying this treaty will also provide our overseas territories, such as New Caledonia, with better access to the New Zealand market. Finally, this political agreement takes place in an important geopolitical context in Oceania, a region of the world where, more than ever, we must preserve the great international balances, affirm our influence and defend our strategic interests; Otherwise, many other powers will take our place with greed. We therefore have every interest in strengthening our place in New Zealand, in an approach of openness alongside our European partners. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is with a friendly wink to the French in New Zealand, with all my encouragement to all those who plan to leave – I am sure there are many in your constituencies – and with my thanks to all the New Zealanders who warmly welcome us, that I invite you to vote in favour of the ratification of this treaty, which, be convinced, will benefit all of us present here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u79	Mr Michel Fanget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u80	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the bill authorizing the ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other. This ratification text follows the partnership agreement signed on 5 October 2016 in Brussels, which aims to strengthen and improve the bilateral relationship. This is essentially about the political dialogue that we have to strengthen, if only from a strategic point of view. This bilateral relationship with the European Union, and France in particular, is old and strong. While it has been able to take the lead in recent decades, it has been revived and is now affecting areas as diverse as economic and commercial cooperation, innovation, culture, the key topic of migration, the fight against terrorism, the fight against organised crime and cybercrime or judicial cooperation: all areas covered by this bill. To better understand the quality of this relationship between France and New Zealand, I would remind you that 106,000 New Zealand soldiers came to fight on French and European soil during the First World War. The recent commemorations of the centenary of this war have strengthened these ancient bonds. Today, our two countries are forward-looking and economically active. New Zealand is our sixty-sixth customer and seventy-first supplier. Our economic relations are solid and balanced. [[Smile]] Cultural cooperation is intense: French, for example, is the first foreign language taught in New Zealand schools. Literary and film partnerships are regular and active with, among others, writers' residences in the cities of Menton and Wellington, or various artist residences in creative technologies and contemporary art. At the sporting level, there is no need to insist on the strength of our relations, although they are, it is true, a little unbalanced in recent times – but there is still reason to hope. Finally, in the scientific field, we are working on similar subjects, which are at the heart of the world's current problems. I am thinking in particular of agronomy, marine resources, the protection of the environment and biodiversity, or nanotechnologies. Exchanges of researchers are also provided by the Dumont d'Urville scientific program, the name of the famous navigator who arrived on the coasts of the island and reported an even finer and more precise description than Cook's. That is to say, how varied and ancient our relationships are. The text before us extends this cooperation and gives it new support for the future. We must recall the European Union's interest in moving closer to the Pacific countries. Since the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, France has remained the only power to retain territories in this area of the world. It is imperative for us to continue to strengthen our relations with and trust in our essential partners. New Zealand is certainly one of them. In addition, New Caledonia and French Polynesia, close to New Zealand, are in close contact with New Zealand and have certain interests with New Zealand. The recent visits of Prime Minister Manuel Valls in 2016 and the Prime Minister of New Zealand to our country last May, during which the latter was received by the President of the Republic, mark the revival of this bilateral relationship that we must continue. We must do so with our common interest and the harmonious development of our peoples and economies in mind. We can therefore look with satisfaction at the opening of negotiations between the European Commission and New Zealand, with a view to signing a trade agreement called "global and ambitious". Signed in Wellington by Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström and New Zealand Trade Minister David Parker, these negotiations must, in the terms of the Commission press release, "eliminate barriers to trade in goods and services as well as... lay down trade rules to facilitate trade and ensure their sustainability". The text that we are discussing, which is the political aspect of a global agreement, finds its logic in the prefiguration of a broad economic agreement. The Democratic and Related Movement is confident that this political agreement will benefit both our countries and allow fruitful cooperation in the scientific fields of the future that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. Once this agreement is combined with the future economic agreement, we will seal a strong friendship and a relationship of trust. We have been attentive to the reservations of some of our colleagues about the scope of these negotiations: I am sure that we will find ways to involve Parliament more closely in the decisions that could be taken. Of course, we hope that the resulting exchanges can also meet the quality standards and ethical expectations of European states and our societies. As the explanatory memorandum points out, we share a common history and values with New Zealand. Democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, are our foundation. It seems to us that in these troubled times it is up to France and, a fortiori, to the European Union to promote cooperation between our spaces. There is a need to strengthen integration and links between democracies, even as we see threats everywhere in the world. Our exchanges, our principles, our history: everything moves us to look to these natural partners. The strengthening of our ties must be an opportunity for us to advance qualitatively and to collaborate ever closer, a testimony of our friendship. In the words of the Prime Minister of Canada, in the same Chamber, if we cannot agree with such close partners, with whom could we? The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore vote in favour of this text without reservation and calls on its colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u81	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u82	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us today a bill to ratify the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other. If it seems necessary for the UDI Group to act and independently establish relations between Europe and the various powers of the world, with which we can share fundamental principles and values, particularly around the Declaration of Human Rights, we look carefully at the draft framework agreement. For those who defend it, this agreement strengthens alliances in an international context where it is necessary to stabilize and strengthen our partnerships with countries that share our values on a wide range of issues. Moreover, this agreement highlights the European Union's capacity for independence, which is not negligible. Our relations with New Zealand should also be seen in the light of Brexit, since it is directly linked to the United Kingdom, which has decided to leave the European Union. In this context, the agreement strengthens the Union's relations with New Zealand independently, and at the same time proves that the United Kingdom is not the only country that shares ties with this historic partner. It also reflects the European Union's willingness to position itself as a major player in political issues, including security, in Asia and the South Pacific, regions that are also prone to conflict. We are not in the first partnership. There is already a joint declaration on relations and cooperation, adopted in 2007; however, it has no binding force. To take a positive look at this, this agreement gives relations between the European Union and New Zealand a stricter, more organised framework covering a wider range of areas. These areas concern all of us, whether we live in continental Europe, as I am used to saying, or on the periphery of Europe. In this connection, I would like to point out that, thanks to France, European citizens are present per million in this area. Let me make a small part of the Pacific region. If you look – on Google Earth, for example – at the globe by placing French Polynesia in the centre, you will only see blue: you will not see any countries around our archipelago. That's what makes the history of our region. More than just a region, it is a facade of the world that we see little. The Clézio spoke of the "invisible continent". As a native of French Polynesia, I can tell you that New Zealand is more than a historical partner: we are Pacific cousins. From a cultural point of view, the Polynesian triangle connects Hawaii, in the northern hemisphere, Easter Island, east of the Pacific, and New Zealand, southwest of the Pacific. This Polynesian triangle is home to people who have lived there for more than a millennium. In the middle of this triangle are French Polynesia and other territories such as Tuvalu and Niue. It is also this shared history that makes the richness of the partnership with New Zealand. Like transposing this partnership into agreements? I have been questioned by the various interventions I have just heard. From the point of view of our territories in the Pacific, from the point of view of Caledonia, which is close to this Polynesian triangle – it lies rather in the Melanesian basin – this agreement is quite natural. It strengthens our ties with New Zealand, both diplomatically and culturally. It allows us to consolidate our relations in different areas – I am thinking of education, for example. During the discussion of the motion to reject it, I heard a lot about the issue of climate. Some have wondered about the value of working together on environmental issues when you're 20000 kilometres away. I agree that, on a commercial level, this agreement may be contradictory to the desire to reorient economies towards short circuits. We must be clear: it is true that, in order to combat climate change, we wish today to encourage short circuits and to favour products from a geographically close area. We can therefore question the desirability of a trade agreement with New Zealand. However, in a context of globalization, it is natural that our countries, which are already economic partners, wish to consolidate their trade. I do not believe that this is contrary to the objectives of sustainable development and the protection of our climate. When we look at things in detail, as the rapporteur has done, we see that our countries can occupy market niches that are not necessarily competing. I would like to tell you how important New Zealand is to regional cooperation in environmental conservation and climate change. Don't think that makes any sense. No, Mr. Lecoq, France is not 20,000 kilometres from New Zealand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u83	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u84	France is not only continental: it is global.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u86	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is maritime because it extends over all the oceans. It is a few hours away, a few thousand kilometres from New Zealand. New Zealand welcomes members of the Maori people, who are my cousins and whose language I can understand, since I speak Reo ma'ohi. These regional languages, spoken in our territories, are nearby. I want to tell you how close we are to New Zealand as you can be to the countries of southern Europe. No, France is not 20,000 kilometres from New Zealand. As President Macron recalled last week, France is an archipelago. It is an island thanks to its overseas territories, which today provide our nation with 80% of its terrestrial biodiversity and 97% of its maritime space.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u87	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u88	We're neighbours to the Cook Islands. Half of our country's exclusive economic zone – EEZ – is made up of the EEZ of French Polynesia. If we add Caledonia and Wallis-et-Futuna, we reach two thirds of the French EEZ. I have told you all this to explain to you the obviousness of the validation of this framework agreement, which, I would remind you, is not a free trade agreement. In conclusion, I will nuance my remarks. Despite all the very positive aspects of this framework agreement, which we support and which the local assemblies of Polynesia and Caledonia have validated, I agree, from a national point of view, with your concerns about the bilateral trade agreement, the free trade agreement that could be concluded tomorrow. I strongly stress this point. The majority of the IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote for this agreement. Nevertheless, it will be extremely vigilant in its follow-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u89	Like us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u90	It is clear that these issues cannot be dealt with without involving national parliaments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u91	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u92	We will strongly oppose these practices, as we have embarked on the CETA niche and other agreements. On this point, I agree with the chairman of our committee. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is not because the effects of this agreement can be very beneficial for the Pacific that we forget the European stakes. You know that we are extremely attached to the territories and the primary sector. I therefore warn you, Secretary of State, and I await your answers before expressing the definitive position that the IDU group will take. I repeat, we will be extremely vigilant about the follow-up to this agreement, particularly in the area of trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u93	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u94	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to congratulate Mr Maina Sage on her speech. It seems to me, my dear colleague, that you have spoken from your document, with the heart of the Pacific. Unlike you, I will not vote for this text, but I am quite sensitive to many of your arguments. [[Smile]] Mr Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, I will probably disappoint you: we will not vote for this text. I very much regret that, Mr Secretary of State, because you are one of the members of the Government that I prefer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u95	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u96	You regularly respect those members of the opposition who speak out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u97	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u98	We love dialogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u99	When asking questions to the Government, you always mention the name of the deputy who has just spoken. I find this exceptional. [[Laughs]] As for you, the chairman of the committee, you know what I think of you – as I have told you several times – and how you manage the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Frankly, it's been a long time since we've been so important, so thoughtful, so much at the heart of the National Assembly, wouldn't you like to introduce yourself to the presidency of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u100	You have friendship for me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u101	I had read the proposals of President Macron, who wanted the Speaker of the National Assembly to be a woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u102	He's not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u103	He was right. But he got a little out of his way...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u104	It was also a question that the term of office of the President of the National Assembly should last only two and a half years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u105	Perhaps the majority, which is essentially female this afternoon, could go in my direction. You defend the rights of Parliament:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u106	Mr. de Rugy defends them too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u107	...so that would be an excellent thing. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in any case, everything is going wonderfully well. Madam rapporteur, you are a young Member who is very close to your colleagues – I saw you talking to Jean-Paul Lecoq earlier. Your report is quite exceptional. I therefore very much regret not to vote for this text, but I want to apply a precautionary principle. It is clear that 90% of this agreement relates to philosophy, history, politics and our common values. As Members of Parliament from the North and the Pas-de-Calais said in committee, New Zealanders – mostly minors – came to our country during the 1914-1918 war. It wasn't very funny: they were asked to dig tunnels to blow up enemy trenches, especially in Ypres. This is a true story, and we still see regularly in our regions descendants of these miners who come to us to tell us their family history. We have a history, or even an extremely heavy liability with New Zealand – I'm thinking of Rainbow Warrior and nuclear testing. May the New Zealanders forgive us a little today, I find this quite exceptional. We can't forget it. This issue must also be approached from a geopolitical point of view. In view of Brexit, France will be the last European Union nation in this sector. It should also be borne in mind that New Zealand supported us when we wanted to join the Pacific. If New Zealand had not defended us, France would never have joined the Pacific Islands Forum. We have interests to defend, including exclusive economic zones – we were talking about it recently with Jacques Attali. We are the only European country in the region, but we are helped by New Zealand. Don't forget it! In fact, China is very interested in this region – when we visited Djibouti, the chairman of the committee, we saw that China was establishing itself in Africa, but it is also trying to establish itself in the Pacific. The presence of France must therefore be supported in the region; But New Zealand is one of our friends, who really supports us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u108	That's the point! Why don't you want to ratify this partnership agreement?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u109	New Zealand is also led by a left-wing government. There's not much left:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u110	It's coming back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u111	...so it can satisfy us. I still have a little concern: this government has allied itself with a political party called New Zealand First, albeit extremely minority, but which reminds us of a number of things... I don't really know what he means. I inquired on the internet: this party defines itself as a centrist, but given its name, I'm not completely sure. Allow me, Mr. Secretary of State, to ask you a question that I do not know the answer to. It seems to me that the Maori are 735000 in New Zealand – I am not quite sure of this figure, but it must not be far from reality – but they do not have elected officials. This is very surprising, given their weight in the population! I wonder why.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u112	Yet they were there before the others!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u113	I think they won 1.20 per cent of the vote in the last election. That's for the little buffalo. In the cultural field, the French language is the first foreign language studied in New Zealand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u115	Among the political and philosophical ideas, among the human rights and justice issues mentioned in this agreement, there is also the issue of weapons of mass destruction and weapons of mass destruction. On this point, there is nothing to say. [[Smile]] But let's go back to our sheep – our New Zealand sheep! What worries us very clearly is the commercial aspect of this agreement, although it is limited. We are bored with this commercial aspect because we remember the Schumann report which we discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u116	The Schubert report, by the name of Mrs Katheline Schubert!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u117	Schubert, Schumann... So flat, mi bémol...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u118	[[Smile]] Are you going to tell us about the trout?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u119	Schubert is a founder, like Schuman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u120	Secretary of State Schumann is also the name of an excellent musician! The Schubert report was delivered after CETA was signed and implemented by Europe. When you hear what happened, you think there's a problem! As far as the agreement with New Zealand is concerned, we are upstream, as I said earlier in my explanation of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. So we have an exceptional chance: we can pull the alarm bell. In the name of the precautionary principle, we cannot accept the same thing as for CETA. We all know that agriculture and livestock farming in New Zealand today are not subject at all to the same standards as in France. Practices are much more serious than those in Canada or the United States: it's something crazy! As Clementine Autain said, we treat cows at an absolutely crazy speed. Administration of antibiotics is systematic; The same applies to growth hormones. This is really a major problem, which goes beyond what all French governments have been trying to explain to our people for the past fifteen years. The presence of an antibiotic in a meat is dramatic for a person in intensive care, as if he or she had consumed meat that had been permanently treated with antibiotics, he or she would not be sensitive to the antibiotic that will be given to him or her in intensive care. While we are trying to solve this problem, it is not possible to import such meat. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] It therefore seems to me very justified to apply a true precautionary principle with regard to the way sheep are reared in New Zealand, particularly in terms of health. In this regard, we have an exceptional opportunity to say "no" in advance. It is not an absolute "no", but a "no" of regret, of precaution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u121	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u122	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this partnership agreement with New Zealand puts on paper our shared experiences, a shared vision and objectives for a more inclusive and greener world – I set the tone for my advocacy at the outset. While it is a natural partner for France, a lucid and pioneering partner in the current environmental context, New Zealand, located on the Pacific Fire Belt, is a country whose consequences of climate change expose people and put them at risk, as well as marine and terrestrial biodiversity. It is a country that has developed its experience in risk management and its exposure to natural disasters, and has been engaged in the fight against climate change for a long time. I therefore see him as an ally in this work of global awareness of the urgency we are facing. It may also be noted that in New Zealand, Mr. David Parker wears the double hat of Minister of Economic Development and Minister of the Environment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u123	That's great!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u124	... symbol, if any, of the coherence of a country for which these commitments can now only go hand in hand. This can be seen in the demanding nature of the priorities of New Zealand's international trade, namely the consideration of climate change, gender equality – the parity that, as Mr. Hutin pointed out, already exists in our country, being a priority there – and the rights of indigenous peoples, as well as respect for social norms. This virtuous approach must now be the rule in any partnership agreement between States. Let us not forget that, as Ms. Maina Sage pointed out, France, with its ultramarine communities and the indigenous peoples living there, is close to New Zealand and that our cooperation then makes sense. Global warming knows no borders and this partnership agreement is a framework for greener governance. New Zealand and the European Union are at the forefront of international efforts to combat climate change, and all that can strengthen this common struggle is a step towards greater efficiency, solidarity and coherence in the sharing of our community of values. Focusing both on reducing emissions from the transport sectors, with Article 45, on integrating climate into development aid actions, with Article 12, and on joint efforts on research and green innovation, with Article 24, this agreement sets out our commitment to improving environmental standards and aims for a transparent and equitable sanitary and phytosanitary component, in order to protect our consumers as best as possible in terms of aligning our agricultural practices. In this generation of new agreements providing for new rights, this is also an agreement aiming for inclusive and accountable governance. The provisions of Article 24 thus tend to strengthen corporate social responsibility. Transparency and consultation are also necessary, since Article 14 provides for an annual trade policy dialogue and sectoral exchanges scheduled for in-depth cooperation. Emmanuel Macron, when he was a candidate, had committed himself to making reducing greenhouse gas emissions the priority of energy policy, setting the goal of getting out of fossil fuels, in order to speed up the implementation of the Paris Agreement. It is in this perspective that we, the majority, voted to stop and ban the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in France, which is a first in the world. I would therefore like to recall the energy aspect of this agreement, whether it is a transition to a low-carbon economy or the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. This agreement is another step forward in terms of ambition, willingness to act and, I am sure, results in addressing the most urgent problems facing our global community. New Zealand is an ally in the effective implementation of the Paris Agreement and a partner in defining responses to the environmental challenges of our time. This country shares our ecological vision and will support international forums in the post-2020 negotiations. These are not just words, but a reality that all our New Zealand partners are constantly emphasizing. Nicolas Hulot, our minister of ecological and solidarity transition, had used a metaphor that may seem light, but that makes sense every day: "The society in which we are looks like a kind of airline plane where all the lights would be red in the cockpit and that in the back we continue either to drink champagne or eventually to quarrel. We are not interested in champagne or quarrel: we live in a globalized reality that must not be denied. The fact that New Zealand is at the opposite ends of our metropolis gives its full meaning and dimension to this globalization. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The ratification of this partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and New Zealand is therefore one of the pieces of the puzzle of this new governance to which we aspire and where respect for and protection of the environment become the heart of any economic development.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u126	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u127	Madam Chair, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Commission, the rapporteur, as part of the commemorations of the centenary of the end of the First World War, the French memorial opened last May in Wellington bears these words, written in Maori: Haere whakamua, titiro whakamuri, which mean: "walking in the future, with our eyes open to the past." This phrase symbolizes the friendly, intimate and deep ties between France and New Zealand since time immemorial. Indeed, our two countries share a geographical, historical and cultural proximity. Geographical, first of all, because of the presence in the Pacific of three of our communities: New Caledonia, French Polynesia and Wallis-et-Futuna, which New Zealand supported so that they could become members of the Pacific Islands Forum. This is one of the guarantees of the stability of our relations. Then, a hundred years ago, our soldiers fought alongside 100,000 New Zealand soldiers, notably in the Somme, but also in Europe and the Pacific. Recall that 18500 of these New Zealand soldiers died on our soil and that 41,500 were wounded. Cultural, at last. French is thus the first foreign language taught in the New Zealand school system, where 47,000 students learn it. Deputy of the French abroad, I am, as you know, the Secretary of State, very attached to the development of our French teaching network abroad, an instrument of influence and attractiveness of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u128	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u129	I am also trying, as part of the constitutional review currently under way, to fight for the inclusion and recognition of the teaching of French abroad in our Constitution. Ten thousand French residents live in New Zealand and the island hosts more than 600,000 tourists each year. Thanks to the "holiday-work" visas, 8000 young French people go there every year to work and discover the country. The agreement we are looking at today will further encourage this mobility. France is currently the only country in the European Union to be present in this region of the world – with the exception of the United Kingdom, which is precisely about to withdraw from the European Union. As the President of the Republic recalled when New Zealand's Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern came, France must now have a leading role in intensifying and diversifying New Zealand's practical and operational cooperation with European partners. Strengthening our relationship with New Zealand means first of all developing our partnership in the fight against global warming. When the Paris agreements were ratified, New Zealand, directly threatened by rising waters, like many countries around the Mediterranean, was a real engine. Let us continue our work together on this subject. It's a fight that must be common. Strengthening our relations with New Zealand also means intensifying our economic and trade cooperation. For the past 10 years, bilateral trade has averaged €800 million per year, with a trade surplus in favour of France of €49 million in 2017. Companies are successful – for example, the Franco-New Zealand partnership set up in 2017 by Engie and Pioneer Energy to develop an innovative system for heating and cooling buildings. Let us continue this cooperation by maintaining a high demand for social responsibility and well-being for all. Strengthening our relations with New Zealand means, finally, continuing our bilateral military relations for the benefit of the entire ocean zone. Our armies are required to cooperate regularly, in particular in the implementation of the FRANZ agreement – France, Australia and New Zealand – in humanitarian and disaster relief interventions in the region. Recently, this was the case during the risk of volcanic eruption on the island of Ambae, Vanuatu. Let us enhance this collaboration, a guarantee of the preservation of our interests in the region, of the neutrality and balance of the indopacific zone. The agreement we are discussing today is in the right direction. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Olga Givernet, on her outstanding work on this text. It is shaping new perspectives to consolidate the deep ties between our two countries and will be crucial for the development of a strong and lasting partnership between the European Union and New Zealand. I shall therefore vote for this text. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u130	Mrs Valérie Thomas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u131	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are discussing today is not a trade agreement, it is not a free trade agreement between the parties. France's interest in ratifying the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other, is multiplicity and must be seen beyond debates which are sometimes out of the question. The history between our two countries is not only part of the rhythm of encounters around an oval balloon. It is long, rich and sometimes difficult, but it persists. France, by signing this agreement, will bring an additional stone to the building of reconciliation between our two countries, begun since the 1990s, far from the involvement of French services in the casting of the Rainbow Warrior in 1985 and, more generally, of New Zealand's hostility to the French nuclear tests in Mururoa. Several steps have enabled our two countries to normalize their relations. France's return of twenty Maori heads to the New Zealand people in January 2012 is an illustration of this. The status of full members of the Pacific Islands Forum obtained by New Caledonia, French Polynesia and Wallis-et-Futuna in September 2016 is another. It is also useful to recall, as you did, Mr. Secretary of State, the role New Zealand played in promoting the integration of French territories into this regional area. France's presence in this part of the world has been strengthened and these territories have gained autonomy, now aspired to develop a robust economy. This outstretched hand of their island neighbours recognizes their growing political role in the Pacific. We must therefore consider all these actions and the partnership agreement proposed to us today as a sign of New Zealand's willingness to strengthen its relationship with the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the South Pacific is not an isolated area of the world where sheep and coconut trees would reign: it is also a theatre of the relations of power and the will of influence of the great powers around it. In the face of the growing ambitions of these powers on the Pacific and the fragility of micro-states, Australia and New Zealand do not want and cannot be the only guarantors of the stability of the South Pacific. The European Union and France, in particular, appear to be a major ally, a counterweight to the Asian neighbours, an ally all the more natural as we share in particular the common values of democracy, the protection of freedoms, the fight against terrorism and climate change, as the New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern recalled during her visit to France last April. That is why this text should be seen as an element for structuring a regular political dialogue, enabling us to face together the crises and challenges of tomorrow. The European Union and New Zealand thus share the same concern for the development of the least developed countries. At a time when the important negotiation of the Cotonou Agreement between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries is under way, New Zealand's vision will be important for maintaining a balance for Pacific island States. There is a great risk of geographical dislocation, of abandoning the Pacific zone in the ACP Agreement. In this international context, we cannot afford the luxury of abandoning them. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This agreement asks us, Europeans, more about our willingness to be a credible diplomatic power than about positions on trade. New Zealand is not a commercial enemy but rather a partner we can rely on. Thus, France and Europe have everything to gain from a strengthened dialogue with New Zealand, as well as with Australia and the island States of the South Pacific. In our troubled world, there are alliances that must not be neglected and agreements that must not be denied. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore call on you to vote for the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u133	On the single clause of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-François Portarrieu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u134	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, was on 4 November 1918: on that day, on the Front, between Maubeuge and Valenciennes, New Zealand soldiers fought to open the hole in the Sandre River and liberate the fortified city of Quesnoy. This battle precipitated the end of the war, during which more than 18,000 Kiwi soldiers died on our soil. That was a century ago and the esteem between our two countries remains intact.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u135	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u136	Is it necessary to point out more that New Zealand has always fought with France for our values and for freedom? The partnership agreement we are discussing today is therefore symbolic. Signed on 5 October 2016 in Brussels, it replaces a joint declaration adopted on 21 September 2007, without creating legal constraint. This agreement is therefore not binding; Yet, it is ambitious. In all its articles, it reflects the historical relationship between the parties and confirms the common desire to dialogue and cooperate in many fields: economic, cultural, educational, scientific and in the fight against climate change. This environmental requirement, shared between our two countries, is a very strong element in this area of the Pacific, where the very existence of several island states is particularly threatened by global warming. However, this agreement is subject to risky interpretations and erroneous comments, while its principle is simple: since we have been working together well, and for a long time, working together in an operational and concrete way. It seems to me that we need to take advantage of the political context of the European Union, but also of the geopolitical context, to get closer to our New Zealand friends and to go further in this common adventure. France's strategic position in the Indo-Pacific zone, together with New Caledonia, French Polynesia and Wallis-et-Futuna, reinforces the importance of this partnership and constitutes an important element of its stability. Politically, in the face of the emergence of Chinese military power, this agreement establishes close cooperation on foreign and security policy issues, in the fight against terrorism, in crisis management, in the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or in the protection of human rights, as provided for in Article 6. [[Smile]] On this last point, does it need to be made clear that it is only on rugby grounds that the All Blacks mistreat their opponents? Some would like us to believe that New Zealanders are not respectful of human rights and do not share the same values of freedom as we – be serious! We share with New Zealand a similar approach, consistent with the implementation of the Paris Agreement, which includes a high requirement for social responsibility and well-being for all. The Joint Monitoring Committee met for the first time, confirming that New Zealand is developing a responsible and inclusive approach to free trade, an approach that fits well with the spirit of the "post-CETA" follow-up plan. In the context of Brexit, France therefore has every interest in ratifying this agreement, which will strengthen the bilateral relationship with New Zealand and help position it as a new privileged point of entry into the European Union. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, we must vote for this text, because we believe that this agreement is largely in favour of our presence and involvement in the Pacific. Moreover, we cannot accept the cartoons about Europe, the speeches about our borders and the very narrow conception of our relations with our international partners proposed by some. Whatever they say, foreign policy is the key to our sovereignty. From global warming to the digital transition, migration or terrorism, these are global challenges that a nation that is shrinking on its own cannot do much. It's not and it's never gonna be our choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u137	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, this general discussion was rich and I wanted to make some comments and answers to the comments that have been made. I thank the many Members who have stressed the density of the link between France and New Zealand, the human ties above all, with many student exchanges, many tourists, even before talking about commercial ties. Above all, there is a commitment to a number of common values in the text of the Partnership Agreement between the European Union and New Zealand. Some have sometimes caricatured the text, with regard to the role of the European Union in employment, for example by contesting the fact that such an agreement can raise this issue and suggesting that other models might be imposed on us. It is simply a matter of having an exchange of information; Moreover, the article in question refers to the principles of the ILO – the International Labour Organization – and to a number of regulations that have been adopted. It is written in black and white in article 51 on employment, which is part of a multilateral system. Beyond employment, this partnership is an opportunity to discuss topics such as animal welfare. You mentioned the cadences, the differences between agricultural models. We are committed to our French agricultural model, built in a European framework for decades. I reiterate France's commitment to a CAP – a common agricultural policy – that is strong, less bureaucratic, more strategic, with strengthened and consolidated means. From this point of view, we know that the copy submitted by the European Commission for the next multiannual financial framework is not up to date. There is therefore really no will to pull down, but on the contrary, to seize the opportunity of these partnerships and of the future free trade agreement, if the negotiations succeed, to take everyone up. Several methodological issues were raised. I want to provide answers and above all share the ambition put forward by the Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to make free trade agreements more transparently negotiated with Parliament. For my part, I fully endorse it: I now wish to be able to be heard by the committee before each Council of Trade Ministers, and then to be able to return to it. This means that all the subjects on the agenda will be discussed, allowing me to refer the French Government to the sensitivities expressed during these hearings. In terms of methodology, it is important to recall the progress made. The mandates on the free trade agreement between the European Union, New Zealand and Australia are public: you can find them since 25 June on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u139	Unlike CETA, it's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u140	We are moving in the right direction; It is a fight that France is waging in European bodies to move towards greater transparency. I started my term as a senator in 2014, interested in CETA; It turns out that the first one to bring me information was Mr. Jonhson, negotiator for Quebec, even before the European Union: it is paradoxical!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u141	And after hearing ministers constantly reply, "We don't know! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u142	Today, we are on our way to progress. Nevertheless, according to the Constitution of the Fifth Republic, to which we are attached, the President signs the treaties – we have not passed to the Sixth Republic. However, the Fifth Republic does not prevent active parliamentary diplomacy. I am very attached to this aspect. At the ambassadors' conference at the end of August, I wanted a segment to be devoted to parliamentary diplomacy and local authorities, because I think we can do a lot together. You are valuable gateways when situations are sometimes complex: we cannot necessarily say everything all the time, and Parliament has a role to play. So I will only see the benefits of having a parliamentary mission in New Zealand as part of this parliamentary diplomacy, when things are being discussed, so that you can...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u143	We don't have the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u144	It's up to Parliament to decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u145	This is a matter for Parliament, of course. But this could very well be part of the momentum to show the sensitivities of national parliaments – indeed, it is also possible for other parliaments – in the negotiations. I am therefore naturally quite open to this joint work. On the mix of agreements – non-mixed, in this case, since the future free trade agreement will only be commercial –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u146	That's not what the rapporteur said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u147	... it happens that we have obtained, within the European framework, that decisions will be taken on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u148	That's not what the rapporteur said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u149	There is therefore no case-law establishing that, from now on, any agreement is non-mixed, any agreement is commercial and therefore everything escapes national parliaments. No! These will be decisions on a case-by-case basis, and France is fighting to conclude as many joint agreements as possible, in order to preserve this obligation of national parliaments to decide. This is not a novelty: trade policy has been in the Community for decades, since the beginning of the European Union. This is one of the pillars of European integration. All you have to do is look at the result: free trade – to which I prefer the term "fair trade" because it contains a notion of equity, which we need for trade to take place in good conditions – has, for fifty years, reduced extreme poverty, from 2 billion to 700 million people: it's 700 million too much, but it's still...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u150	With the abolition of food farming, this remains to be seen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u151	Yes! These are objective figures, which exist! It must be said, even if globalization must be regulated. The President of the Republic made a founding speech and I encourage you to read about it for those who would not have heard it: it was at the OECD on 30 May 2018. At a time when multilateralism is being hit and cut by a number of partners, we have a bold road map to reshape the international multilateral system. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Here are some elements of method and on the substance. I once again thank the National Assembly and its Foreign Affairs Committee for their input into this debate. We therefore continue to fight, since there are still a number of them to be carried out in the European fora!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u152	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u153	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u154	[[Smile]] Minister, in this case, once again, the habit is not the monk, one might say. This is the kind of text we should be wary of: we will no longer be able to intervene in the commercial field; It is the European Union alone that will decide on free trade agreements. We are being asked, in a way, in the words of Auvergne, to "buy a donkey in a bag", without knowing what this partnership agreement is going to bring about. As my colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq has made clear, we are clearly in favour of the conclusion of partnership agreements in the political, diplomatic, cultural and other fields. Our reluctance is that the consequences of these free trade agreements will be devastating, particularly for agriculture. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Mrs Sage, you told us that France is at the door of New Zealand, but Jean-Paul Lecoq did not say otherwise. We know that New Caledonia and French Polynesia are close to it. I reread his speech: he was talking about the distance between the European Union and New Zealand. Of course, it can be said that the European Union, through the French Overseas Territories, is at the door of New Zealand, but that does not change the problem of transport between New Zealand and Europe and the need to relocate consumption to avoid the negative externalities of such agreements. Not only do they have negative consequences for our agriculture, they also have negative consequences for the environment. In these circumstances, you will understand that we will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u155	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u156	Mr Secretary of State, your speech surprises me with its anachronism, its deviation from the stakes of our time. You assured us that you will listen to the parliamentarians, and that you will stand before them in a hearing. What we are proposing is to refer these kinds of agreements to the referendum: it is not exactly the same thing. We know that after listening to the parliamentarians, you will do with their opinion whatever you want! You said that free trade is prosperity, poverty reduction, peace, etc. These speeches are very dated, we have heard them many times. Now a new issue is coming to us today, which seems to have escaped everyone: the ecological issue. The great move of the world, which consists of transporting goods from one end of the planet to the other, must stop. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In addition to serious democratic problems, as Clémentine Autain pointed out, this agreement will have very important social consequences, particularly in terms of job destruction. We, too, will vote against this text. We want to put on the table the question of these treaties on which the peoples have no control: it is a question of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u157	The next speaker is Mr Joachim Son-Forget, for the Group of the European People's Party on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u158	The agreement to allow ratification will strengthen the dialogue between the European Union and New Zealand. You will have noted that its title II is entitled "Political dialogue and cooperation on foreign and security policy issues. This agreement is therefore part of an ambitious policy for France, for its presence all over the world, on all oceans. If I defend this text, it is by patriotism – the current Values magazine, in its edition this week, speaks of me as a "great patriot." How is it patriotic to defend this text? First, because we mark our presence on the oceans through actions to respect biodiversity, for example by developing marine protected areas, working with other countries. I would remind you that, after Brexit, France will be the only European country present in the Pacific. This will allow us to continue to work on these global issues. Secondly, for security reasons. This is a matter to which I am attached, as a reserve officer of the National Navy and a Member of Parliament. Our presence on all oceans is guaranteed by the agreements we sign with our allies. Thus, we are present in the region as part of the quadrlateral defence coordination group with the United States, Australia and New Zealand. It is because of all these issues and by patriotism that this agreement must be ratified.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u159	Patriotism means acting for the people, not against the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u160	This will allow us both to preserve our sovereignty, at national and European level, and to preserve the environment – because the environmental issue concerns us all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u161	Then ask the people what they think!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u162	The floor is for Mr Michel Fanget, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u163	We will, of course, vote in favour of this bill authorizing the ratification of the partnership agreement between New Zealand and the European Union. We had an informed debate, in which both presented their arguments. On the democratic front, the association of national parliaments is already a strong sign, as the chairman of the committee and the secretary of state have said. On the economic side, I will not go back to what was said during the general discussion. As far as ethical issues and standards are concerned, we must remain vigilant. On the whole, these trade agreements seem to us to be very interesting to both sides a priori. That is why we will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u164	Mrs Maina Sage, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u165	This debate has been rich: the benefits of this agreement have been described, but also the fears of each other. Our common history with New Zealand and the stakes between the Pacific and Europe in the perspective of Brexit are in favour of its ratification. I forgot to mention just one very important aspect of the question, namely the post-Cotonou agreement, which will be concluded with the ACP countries and will have a direct impact on the OCTs – the overseas countries and territories – of which the three French territories of the Pacific are part. I have the impression, to hear some speakers, that our relations with New Zealand will only begin with this agreement. No! We have already had relations with this country, and for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u166	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u167	We have developed cultural, tourist and educational exchanges as well as commercial exchanges. This framework agreement will therefore help to revive and strengthen our relations with this essential territory of the Pacific. However, I will put two flats to this positive judgment, Mr. Secretary of State. First, I regret that the text on the agreement with New Zealand is not being discussed at the same time as the text on the agreement with Australia. In view of the relations between the two countries, it would have been logical to examine them jointly. Second, maybe it's time to move on to the sixth. I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. Despite these two flats, our group is in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u168	The OCTs are not affected by this agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u169	Mr Christian Hutin, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u170	As you will have understood, with great regret, our group will not vote for this text. If it had concerned only the political and cultural fields, we would have voted without hesitation, but in commercial matters, it can no longer last – a number of groups have said so. This text gives us the opportunity to repeat that our assembly, the national representation, must have its say on all trade measures, especially in this world where markets are open to the four winds. That is why we will not vote for this text. By the way, I have not put forward the argument of the ecological impact of this text, in particular of the carbon balance, simply because it makes no sense to our nation. We cannot denounce the carbon balance of New Zealand's imports without doing the same for those of the French territories of the Pacific – New Caledonia, Polynesia, Wallis and Futuna. But there's France! This argument falls because of our sovereignty and the desire to maintain France's presence in these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u171	Especially since they're not involved in the deal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u172	Maybe not directly, but the deal will have an impact on them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u173	[[Smile]] Do you want me to arbitrate this dispute? I will be more objective than the Argentine referee appointed for the France-Uruguay match! By the way, that's just a remark. The carbon balance there also exists in relation to France. So that's not an argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u174	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u175	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u176	We are all very worried about our colleagues in the group. The Republicans, because it is very rare in our Chamber that a large group should not be represented. Madam President, I asked you earlier, off the microphone, if you had heard from them about their state of health...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u177	This is not a point of order, Mr. Lecoq. Each group decides on its presence in the Chamber as it sees fit. Mr. Lurton is no longer here, but he was present earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u178	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u179	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u180	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing accession to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, adopted in New York on 31 May 2001 (No. 583, 946).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u181	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u182	Madam President, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, between the previous agreement and this one, the transition is complete, since the first one contained an article specifically devoted to the fight against trafficking in small arms and light weapons. The aim here is to broaden the subject as we are examining the protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, annexed to the Palermo Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. Such trafficking, as you know, fuels terrorism, organized crime, armed violence. They are major destabilizing factors for states and are estimated to cause nearly 500,000 victims every year. France, alas! Several of the terrorist attacks that hit our territory were carried out with firearms of illicit origin, some of which had been the subject of international trafficking. Since the 1990s, the international community has mobilized and a number of instruments have been developed, including this Protocol adopted by a United Nations resolution in 2001. It entered into force in 2005, following its ratification by forty States, and now has 114 States parties. Six Member States of the European Union have not yet ratified it; It was time that France was no longer part of it and reaffirmed its commitment, especially since it was very on the point on the subject. A few days ago, our country chaired the Third Review Conference of the United Nations Programme of Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons at UN Headquarters in New York. The conference resulted in the unanimous adoption of a substantial final document, which should strengthen the fight against illicit trafficking at national, regional and global level. As you can see, the Government draws all the conclusions from France's commitment by submitting this ratification bill to you. The Protocol contains provisions providing for the establishment of a system for the control of transfers of firearms and the obligation to apply specific markings and keep records of weapons. It also organises the exchange of information concerning the actors in the lawful trade in firearms, but also the relevant elements on trafficking – routes, traffickers. It is therefore particularly useful. As regards the link between the Protocol and the existing law, I stress that accession to the Protocol is without prejudice to the right of self-defence, as recognised in Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. I would also like to point out that France is already applying most of the provisions of the Protocol, as our law has evolved taking into account some of its elements. In the context of its ratification, however, France planned to deposit two reservations upon accession, in accordance with the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. The first reservation would relate to the definition of old weapons provided for in Article 3. In the course of your debates in committee, the rapporteur has already brought important elements of response to the inquiries of collectors in your constituencies, which you have relayed. The Government plans to retain the category "historical and collection weapons" as it currently exists in French law. These are weapons with a pre-January 1, 1900 model, as well as certain weapons of particular cultural, scientific or historical interest. The second reservation concerns the marking of arms on importation as provided for in Article 8 of the Protocol. France, like some 15 other States, intends to maintain its current practice of applying a test mark by an authorized institution, in this case the Saint-Etienne test bench, which offers all the guarantees of traceability and reliability provided for by the protocol. It turns out that harmonisation work is being carried out at European level; Perhaps there will be developments, but for the time being our country is still in the position. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that, through your vote, our adherence to the protocol reaffirms our commitment to international peace and security in all multilateral settings. That is what I wanted to say to you in order to fully inform your vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u184	Mr Bertrand Bouyx, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u185	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour today to be before you the rapporteur of a bill authorizing ratification of the protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms. The Protocol was adopted on 31 May 2001, six months after the so-called Palermo Convention, which it complemented as well as two other protocols on combating trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Although France has ratified the Palermo Convention and its first two protocols since 2002, that of this Protocol has never been successful: the main difficulties were linked to the technical arrangements for implementation by the Ministry of the Interior and the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties. Since these obstacles have now been removed, and France is obliged to bring its legislation into line with that of the European Union in this field, it is now proposed to the National Assembly to approve the ratification of this Protocol. I would like to stress here the particular importance of this ratification, not only because of the scourge that the protocol intends to combat, but also because it is the first time that an international agreement is legally binding in the fight against such trafficking, in an international environment where the agreements are essentially political and in principle. Let us recall a few facts that should be kept in mind when voting on this text. Civilian populations are the first victims of the uncontrolled flow of weapons. It is estimated that there are between 600 million and 800 million small arms and light weapons in circulation worldwide, and that they cause approximately 500,000 victims per year. The international mobilization campaign "Control Arms", launched by Amnesty International, Oxfam and the NGO International Action Network on Small Arms, highlighted these chilling statistics: every minute, one person is killed by firearms in the world and 15 are injured; 60 per cent of serious human rights violations are related to the use of small arms and light weapons in the past decade; 80 per cent of the victims of armed conflict are civilians; 875 million firearms are in free circulation throughout the world, including 640 million small arms and light weapons; the production of military cartridges reaches 14 billion units per year. If it were necessary, that would be a clear indication of the imperative need for binding and effective legal tools to combat the illicit trafficking in small arms that feed criminal and terrorist networks, as the recent history of our country has painfully reminded us. However, it seems to me important at this time to make it clear that France's commitment to the fight against illicit arms trafficking did not await ratification of this protocol. Following the attacks of January and November 2015, France remobilized at all levels – national, regional, global – to better combat illicit trafficking in firearms. The Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects is the only universal and consensual instrument to combat illicit trafficking in conventional arms. Its third review conference was held last week at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, under the presidency of France, which focused on remobilizing States, civil society and the disarmament community on the subject of small arms and light weapons. France has also actively participated in the adoption of the arms trade treaty, known as the TCA, which was ratified in 2013 and entered into force on 24 December 2014. The TCA has two interrelated objectives: to improve conventional arms export control systems and to combat illegal trafficking. With regard to the Protocol itself, its scope and its inputs, I would first like to recall its purpose: to promote, facilitate and strengthen cooperation between States parties in order to prevent and combat the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition. The protocol covers offences that are detailed in the protocol when they are transnational in nature and when a criminal group is involved. Article 5 stipulates that the following intentional acts must be penalized by the national legislation of the States parties to the Protocol: the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition; the illegal falsification or erasure, removal and alteration of the marks to be worn by firearms. In addition, the Protocol provides for the criminalization of attempting to commit, complicit in, organizing, directing, facilitating, encouraging or promoting the commission of one of these offences. Criminal sanctions are provided for in the Defence Code, the Criminal Code, the Internal Security Code and the Customs Code. Article 6 of the Protocol provides for the confiscation of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition which have been illicitly manufactured or trafficked. Our right is already fully in line with the provisions of this article. Article 9, on the neutralization of firearms, stipulates that States parties that do not consider neutralized weapons as firearms must take the necessary measures to prevent their illegal reactivation. It establishes general principles of neutralisation. French law is also in conformity with this article. However, it is important to clarify that neutralized weapons remain classified according to the provisions of national regulations. Article 10, on general obligations relating to systems of export, import and transit licences or authorizations, provides that States parties shall establish or maintain a system of export and import licences, as well as measures relating to international transit for the transfer of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition, and specifies their nature. Our national system of authorisation, export, import and transit in domestic law is also in conformity with the Protocol. Article 11 provides that States Parties shall take appropriate measures to ensure the safety of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition at the time of manufacture, import, export and transit, and to increase the effectiveness of controls on imports, exports and transit. On this point too, the provisions of domestic law provide for a system of safety and prevention measures in accordance with the Protocol. Article 12 details the principles of exchange of information, which is an essential link in the fight against trafficking of any kind. France is already involved in institutional and bilateral cooperation, which may be general or specifically related to weapons. This is the case within the International Criminal Police Organisation – ICPO-Interpol – but also within the Schengen Information System, in which 29 countries participate and which includes data on lost or stolen weapons and alerts of wanted persons. Finally, it should be pointed out that the Government intends to include two declarations: the first concerns the definition of historic weapons, as provided for in article 3, and the second concerns the import marking requirement for the identification of the importing State as provided for in article 8. With regard to Article 3 and terminology, its various definitions are consistent with those contained in Article R. 311-1 of the Internal Security Code, with the exception of the definition of old firearms – which must be defined in domestic law – for which Article 3 states that they "under no circumstances include firearms manufactured after 1899". French law does not include the notion of old weapons but refers to historical and collection weapons. A statement should therefore be made on the definition of historic weapons. As regards Article 8 and the marking, France does not provide for the affixing of import markings. By virtue of its participation in the Permanent International Commission for the Testing of Portable Firearms, it imposes a test stamp on all weapons manufactured or imported into the national territory. This punch allows the identification of the test bench, but not directly that of the importing State. French law is therefore not in conformity with Article 8 as regards the obligation to mark imports allowing the identification of the importing State. A reservation will be made on this specific point. In conclusion, the protocol for which the National Assembly is called upon to authorize ratification is an important step in the fight against trafficking which, through transnational crime or terrorism, endangers our society. France must seize the opportunity here to send a signal to our partners and to engage in a multilateral dynamic in the fight against small arms trafficking. One hundred and twenty States have already ratified the Agreement; France must show that it is in a position to bring its legislation into line with its commitments, which are strong and sincere. For all these reasons, I propose that you pass this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u187	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u188	Madam President, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, arms trafficking is a major strategic and security issue. According to the United Nations, 40% to 60% of the world's small arms trade is illicit at some point in time, contributing to instability and violence in the neighbourhood of the European Union – I am thinking of Eastern Europe and the Balkans – and in Africa, but also within the Union itself, through the provision of resources to criminal organisations and terrorists. No state escapes it, and France is no exception, alas! Since the attacks of November 2015 were committed with weapons from trafficking from Eastern countries. So we can only agree with the objective of this bill: to ratify the first – and to date the only – legally binding international instrument to control the manufacture of and trafficking in small arms and light weapons. I thank our rapporteur, Bertrand Bouyx, who, in his excellent report, has made it clear what is at stake in the bill before us. France, as a permanent member of the Security Council and as a European State that has long been involved – particularly with Germany – in the fight against arms trafficking, has a real leadership role to play in this regard. I believe that we need to focus our efforts on areas at risk: the Western Balkans and the southern neighbourhood, Libya and the Sahel as a priority. France is already working on this in the Balkans with a promising programme, hosted at the Trieste summit and conducted jointly with Germany. In the South, in the Sahel, we can still make progress, including in mobilizing our European partners. Is it worth recalling that it is thanks to Operation Barkhane and our soldiers, to whom I want to pay tribute here, that several tons of weapons and ammunition are seized every year in the Sahel? We also need to put in place much more effective systems of traceability, information exchange and control of arms transfers at European level. On the major issue of the implementation of arms embargoes, we could do better. In the current state of the law, French justice cannot prosecute those who violate the sanctions regimes. A bill was passed by our house two years ago, but it did not succeed. Its purpose was to give full scope, by penalizing their violation, to arms embargoes. This idea, Secretary of State, deserves to be taken up again. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Hutin also applauds]] It therefore seems to me that our Parliament must take up this subject more vigorously: the stakes are immense for the safety of our citizens. Elsewhere in Europe, Great Britain, Sweden or Italy, parliamentarians follow closely, and much more comprehensively, both the licit and illicit arms trade. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has therefore taken the initiative to organise a round of hearings which will lead to proposals to improve Parliament's current information system, which I hope will be taken into account by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u189	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u190	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, Mr Bertrand Bouyx, my neighbour, who knows what he is talking about in terms of collecting weapons, since he is the Member of Parliament for the Disembarkation Beaches, where the value of the recovered weapons is attached to those who have come there and to whom we owe our freedom today, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us today is intended to allow accession to the protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. This bill seems interesting to us as it relates to the role of States in the control of arms in their territory, as well as to the rules on the transfer of arms to the civilian sector, their import and export. It also provides for measures for better international cooperation, such as the assistance of international organizations or the establishment of inter-State cooperation. The protocol will allow for better cooperation with our partners around the world in order to stop the scourge of arms proliferation, which can only go in the right direction, since it is likely to limit both the scale of conflicts and civilian casualties. The deputies of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, the Communist deputies are also satisfied that France has preserved the work done on collecting weapons and on historical weapons, by formulating a reserve. Finally, seventeen years after its adoption, France will join the other twenty-three Member States of the European Union which have ratified the Protocol. We must also ensure that the remaining countries of the European Union and Europe do the same. I am thinking in particular of the Union, Germany, the United Kingdom and Russia. However, while we are in favour of accession to this protocol, the GDR Group wishes to express certain reservations. The protocol focuses primarily on transnational manufacturing and trafficking. It is therefore imperative that France and other countries consider what it does not cover: the sale by States of small arms and light weapons, which is very little addressed at a time when it is the most serious and urgent problem. Moreover, the convention does not in any way upset France's traditional policy of selling arms to certain countries outside of any democratic or human rights considerations. Let us talk, for example, about the weapons parachuted in Libya during the 2011 war, which helped to destabilize this whole area and make Libya the hell it is today. By the way, these parachutings included small arms, of which no one knows yet where they are. We can also talk about the sale of arms to countries likely to use them against their own people, which is a violation by France of the arms trade treaty. This is all the more disturbing as, on 21 August 2013, the European Union called on Member States to suspend their arms transfers to Egypt in order to avoid their use for internal repression. But France preferred to continue without taking into account this demand: what do humans matter as long as we have the profit! We therefore understand why, perhaps, this protocol is so late ratified by our country. We can also talk about the sale of heavy weapons to countries that do not hesitate to deploy them abroad without concern for the safety of civilian populations, thus in violation of international humanitarian law. I am thinking in particular of Yemen, where French weapons seem to be used by several belligerents, which would make our State an accomplice in war crimes and even crimes against humanity. I dare not imagine that the flagship of French know-how, whether in aeronautics, navy or cavalry, stands out by bombing civilians or contributing to the maintenance of one of the worst humanitarian disasters of this decade. I would like to take this opportunity to stress once again the importance of setting up a commission of inquiry into the use of French weapons in the conflict in Yemen, as proposed by our colleague Sébastien Nadot. We do not understand the veto of the majority group on this matter. France would honour itself to make all the transparency on this matter. It would be good if France respected its international commitments. I think, once again, of the arms trade treaty, which France has ratified and whose signatories undertake not to allow arms transfers if there is a preponderant or clear risk that these weapons will be used to commit or facilitate serious violations of international humanitarian law. I refer you to the conclusions of Amnesty International France and ACAT, the Action of Christians for the Abolition of Torture, on the subject. I would also like to point out that the Communist Group in the Senate has tabled a bill to strengthen control over the arms trade and the violation of embargoes, which proposes, inter alia, the holding of two parliamentary debates on the sale of arms, including a vote. This proposal resonates all the more strongly since, for the first time, France did not submit its annual report on its arms deliveries in 2017 to the arms trade treaty secretariat on the date imposed – even though it has since done so. We are particularly concerned about the opaque presidential drift that affects arms exports and we are calling for tighter control, notably by Parliament, of France's arms exports. It should also be recalled that the mere limitation of illicit arms trafficking and manufacture will never be enough to stop violence in America, the Middle East or Africa. These are much more complex logics that are at work, and which are mainly due to the development inequalities between the North and the South. For example, some African countries, such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo, have entered what Mr.Badie, an illustrious professor known to those who have done Sciences Po – which is not my case – calls a "war society", where war comes as a substitute for the shortcomings of the state, with the rise of a war economy. If the aim is to combat war and great crime, then we must put in place a real development aid policy, which is not tainted by the logic of influence and economic imperialism, and insist on the security drift of official development assistance, which also feeds the arms trade, through aid based on the new idea of the "security and development continuum". It is futile to believe that limiting only the illicit trafficking in and manufacture of small arms and light weapons is an effective means of combating the endemic violence in those parts of the world. Finally, there are the problems related to the legal sale of light firearms. A first problem concerns countries that, like the United States, have very open legislation with regard to the internal trade in firearms. This opens up a smuggling market that can impact neighbouring countries and even global traffic. A second problem is the sale of small arms and light weapons to belligerent or unstable regimes, which generally leads, as the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee and the Rapporteur have said, to a flight of weapons from State arsenals to the arsenals of private militias, criminal groups or terrorist groups. Recent international developments have given us a sad illustration of this. Even if the Communist MEPs are satisfied with France's late accession to the protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms – fortunately there was the international conference in New York, chaired by France, to speed up this ratification! – they remain relatively sceptical about the general situation of the arms trade. France must go further in restricting its arms exports and use its diplomatic influence to influence all regional, multilateral or international actions in order to limit the trade in all arms. France must also promote a global and reasonable framework for the sale of any weapons system, whether to the internal market or to the external market. Only an extremely strict arms control will allow the stabilization of entire areas of the world and contribute to peace. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] The Communist MEPs and the entire Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote for accession to the convention, but will remain vigilant about the future of the arms trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u191	Mrs Delphine O has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u192	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 13 November 2015, Islamist terrorists killed in the streets of Paris. In Bataclan, Belle Team, Comptoir Voltaire, Bonne beer and Petit Cambodia, 130 people are murdered and more than 400 injured. The weapons used by terrorists are mainly assault rifles, Kalashnikov, as had already been the case in the attacks on Charlie Hebdo and the Hyper Hider. These weapons, purchased in Eastern Europe and passed through Belgium before being used in France, come from an international trade in small arms and light weapons, a scourge that knows no borders and affects all continents. As the rapporteur has pointed out, this illegal trade concerns between 600 and 800 million weapons each year, which are responsible for around 500,000 victims per year; It also covers armed conflicts, where 80 per cent of civilian casualties are killed by small arms and light weapons. States members of the United Nations have quickly identified the multiplicity of national legislation and instruments on the control of such weapons as a source of confusion, benefiting major transnational criminal groups, and as a destabilizing factor and a threat to the security of these countries. Depending on the region of the world, the illicit arms trade is facilitated by the lack of monitoring by the State concerned, by looting or by persistent armed conflicts. In Africa, successive armed conflicts and porous borders further complicate controls. The spread of the Libyan arsenal of war, amassed during the forty years of the reign of Gaddafi, which includes tens of thousands of weapons imported during the latter years, is a major source of destabilization. These weapons are sold, at a very low unit price, to all kinds of rebel or criminal groups in West Africa. The majority of the smuggled weapons arriving in France come from Central and Eastern Europe. Gangs and banditry are the main buyers of weapons from these countries; France, Germany and Spain are the first countries of destination. The Ministry of the Interior estimates that for ten years, approximately 10,000 weapons from illegal trafficking have entered French territory from abroad. Despite the multiplicity of instruments, the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons had not until recently been the subject of any legally binding regulation. It was in response to the urgent need to address this scourge that the UN Member States wanted to have an ambitious instrument: the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, known as the Palermo Convention. Through this text adopted in 2000 by the UN General Assembly and which entered into force in 2003, the international community has expressed its willingness to respond strongly and within a multilateral framework – the only one that can solve a problem of a globalised nature. It is imperative to coordinate such actions, whether at international level with the United Nations, at European level with the European Union or at national level. This Convention was supplemented by three protocols adopted in 2002: the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants; Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons; Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms. The purpose of the Convention and the Protocol is to harmonize national legal systems and facilitate extradition procedures. More specifically, States committed themselves to adopting a series of crime control measures and to integrating three elements into their national legal order. Sixteen years after the adoption of the three protocols, it is legitimate to question France's delay in acceding to the third protocol, which concerns us today. As the vast majority of administrative and technical obstacles to accession have been removed, we must welcome the fact that this protocol is being examined in Parliament. Despite this delay, it should be noted that France has mobilized proactively in the fight against the illicit spread of weapons, in particular after the attacks of 2015. In particular, it is a party to a number of legal instruments, such as the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, adopted in 2001, the European Union's Strategy to Combat the Illicit Accumulation and Trafficking in Small Arms and Light Weapons, adopted in 2005, which enhances cooperation actions towards the Balkans and the Sahelo-Saharan Strip, and the Arms Trade Treaty, which entered into force in 2014, to which ninety-four States are parties. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Since 2015, the fight against terrorism has become a top priority for France. The fight against international arms trafficking is part of this struggle. It's only a part of it, but it's an important part. It is therefore urgent to pass the ratification bill before us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u193	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u194	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will give its full support to France's accession to the protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms. In 2001 this protocol was proposed to the Member States of the United Nations as a result of UN General Assembly Resolutions 53/111 and 53/114; It was the culmination of two years of intergovernmental committee work. With regard to the Palermo Convention, of which France has already ratified the first two protocols, this third part is, to date, the only multilateral treaty legislating in this field. Yet it is only today, after almost two decades of technical implementation difficulties, that we are called upon to ratify it. In a context where the debate on firearms is at the forefront and where some national policies recommend, or even boast, putting a weapon in everyone's hands, it is important, as my colleagues have pointed out, to denounce this global scourge. Trafficking in arms and also their illicit manufacture must be combated by all possible instruments. This protocol is not one among others; it is the only instrument available. It is a global response to a global problem. The chairman of the committee said: in the Sahel, Sudan, Mali, the spread of firearms contributes to the instability of countries in internal conflicts or infected with terrorism and great banditry. It is also closer to us that this type of trafficking is spreading, because of the fault of criminal organizations; He's alas! We are often directed towards Europe and our country. This must strengthen our determination and conviction with a view to the adoption of this text. France is active in this global struggle. At the national level, this is first of all the law of 22 June 2011 and the national regime for the control of arms transfers; our internal regulations have been made in accordance with the European vision. Our country has also developed instruments such as the Interministerial Commission for the Study of Exports of War Material. Since 1998, there has been an annual report to Parliament on arms exports. France therefore demonstrates its serious management and firm control with a view to combating these traffickings in its territory. At European and international level, as has been discussed at length in previous interventions, France has committed itself to this work in a determined manner. The Arms Trade Treaty has received the active support and participation of France, as has the United Nations Programme of Action to Combat the Trafficking in Small Arms and Light Weapons. Our country has also been active in the drafting of European Directive 91/477 on the control of the acquisition and possession of firearms. France plays an important role in this struggle. It has the capacity to contribute its expertise, sometimes in cooperation with its European partners, as is the case with Germany in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the coordination group on small arms and light weapons or in the framework of the Franco-Serb intelligence units dedicated to combating these traffickings. Of course, countries such as the United States, Russia, India or China have not yet signed these treaties, and I share the concern of some of my colleagues about the impact of these absences on the overall effectiveness of international agreements. In France, the accession procedure has encountered a number of obstacles over the years, which have delayed our vote. In 2002, the first interdepartmental report concluded that French legislation and administrative services were not sufficiently prepared. It was then necessary to wait for certain European regulations to come into force. Then, the 2008 and 2010 inter-ministerial meetings failed to start the accession procedure. Only in 2012 will Europe put in place the tools to ratify the Protocol. Finally, in 2015, our administrations will be able to work on this issue, as our domestic legislation is now in line with the requirements of the agreement. French law has, in fact, taken advantage of the time of ratification to comply itself with the provisions proposed by international law, which allows France, in turn, to strengthen cooperation outside France. The aim is also to make international law more coherent. We discussed in committee the binding nature of the protocol. Of course, we do not know how quickly these international treaties will advance the cause that brings us all together. But small steps are taken, without possible turning back, according to the principle of the click that I mentioned. In this series of advances in the fight against trafficking in small arms and light weapons, this is the first binding treaty. Current mechanisms, such as PoA – the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects –, UNROCA – the United Nations Register on Conventional Arms, ISACS – international standards for the control of small arms and light weapons – or the Wassenaar Arrangement, were not, but they could extend the action of the Protocol. There is an urgent need to join the countries that are already acceding to the protocol, which represents a convincing international arsenal, offering the signatory States the opportunity to cooperate not only against illicit arms trafficking, but also against the trafficking and construction of its components and ammunition. It also enables cooperation on tracing, exchange of information, authorisation and export licences or neutralisation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our country has waited too long. Our world in crisis, full of blind violence and stark inequalities, requires us to adhere fully to this protocol. The MODEM Group of course supports its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u196	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u197	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us the consideration of the bill to allow accession to the protocol against the manufacture of and illicit trafficking in firearms. The purpose of this protocol to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime is to curb the scourge of the manufacture of and trafficking in arms at the global level. According to the United Nations, illegal arms trafficking is now one of the four most profitable traffickings alongside drug and drug trafficking and prostitution. In order to clarify the issues, it should be noted that the "firearms" protocol excludes weapons of war. Its adoption has been part of a more comprehensive process of work on the problem of small arms and light weapons within the United Nations. The Commission estimates that 40 to 60 per cent of the world's small arms trade is illicit at some point in time. The data in this market remains very opaque, but in 2018 it is still estimated at $100 billion and is likely to double by 2020. Trafficking in firearms is fueled by multiple channels, covering very different realities depending on the geographical areas and the groups involved: either by the illicit manufacture of weapons, or by diversion from State stockpiles or official trade flows. France ratified the Palermo Convention and its first two protocols as early as 2002, but ratification of the Additional Protocol was never successful because of the technical constraints involved in its implementation by the Ministry of the Interior and the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties. Indeed, the first inter-ministerial analysis carried out in 2002 had revealed difficulties with regard to the concept of firearms under French legislation: the absence in France of a civil weapons register, difficulties in exchanging information on the legal trade in arms or the need to introduce a regime for brokers. The "firearms" protocol was thus particularly binding, obliging us to adopt a national control mechanism for conventional arms transfers. In order to be able to ratify it, France had to adjust its law and bring itself into conformity by means of criminal and litigation measures. All these obstacles are now being overcome. And even if, in this respect, France was in any case obliged to bring its legislation into line with that of the European Union, we can only welcome the efforts that have been made and we welcome these improvements, if only for our country. It is now proposed to the National Assembly to approve the ratification of the Protocol, to which many countries have already acceded for a long time. It entered into force on 3 July 2005 as the first and only legally binding international agreement specifically aimed at combating illicit trafficking in firearms. Its purpose is to promote, facilitate and strengthen cooperation among States parties in order to prevent and combat the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition. It applies to offences that are detailed in the Act, where they are transnational in nature and where a criminal group is involved. The Additional Protocol penalizes the following intentional acts: the manufacture, illicit trafficking in firearms, and the falsification, erasure, removal and unlawful alteration of the marks they must bear. Our national law also provides for the possibility of depriving someone of the possession of a firearm and the neutralization of that weapon. The Protocol is therefore working towards a more effective fight against trafficking, in particular by requiring signatory States to put in place effective marking for firearms or, in the area of prevention, by requiring them to keep information on trafficking in domestic weapons for ten years in order to improve their cooperation. With regard to the control of imports, exports and transit, the system of authorisation, in our domestic law, is in conformity with the Protocol, as France applies the new provisions introduced by Regulation No 258/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012 implementing the United Nations Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms. Moreover, France is already involved in institutional and bilateral cooperation or exchange of information within the international criminal police organisation – INTERPOL – within the framework of the Schengen information system at European level of EUROPOL or the European Multiannual Strategic Plan. These measures, which may seem relatively light, are on the contrary essential, as they allow better control, by tackling the underlying problem. It is all the more important for France to integrate this protocol as out of 10 million weapons in circulation, only 4 million would be legally incorporated – remember! Although our country has the most restrictive legislation on firearms, it is also one of the most armed European countries. It is true that this can be explained in part by our traditions, especially that of hunting, which is very practiced at home, but also because France is a very active player in the arms market. This sector even helps to consolidate its position on the international scene by guaranteeing it a high degree of autonomy. Nevertheless, France has expressed reservations regarding certain provisions of the Additional Protocol, in particular with regard to the designation of "old weapons" and the marking of firearms. Indeed, the text does not mention historical and collection weapons, to which French law refers on the contrary, excluding weapons that were manufactured before 1899. It is therefore necessary, in a spirit of cohesion, to define this concept so that French law remains in conformity with the "firearms" protocol. With regard to traceability, French law does not provide for import marking, although various devices allow our country to trace firearms entering its territory. In this area too, it is therefore necessary to comply more closely with the provisions of the Protocol. Despite these reservations, the IDU Group, acting and independent, considers it essential to ratify the protocol and thus contribute to the fight against trafficking in firearms while benefiting from the contributions that may result from cooperation between States. Our country could also reap some benefits in order to better prevent the risks of terrorist attacks, which unfortunately, in the context recalled by Marielle de Sarnez, remain important. Adherence to this protocol, which already brings together a large part of the international community, is a duty for our country, especially since we have the most restrictive legislative framework regarding the possession of firearms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u198	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u199	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, France has a very specific place in this field of small arms. First of all, our country has been out of production for three or four years. And, on the other hand, we have extremely strict legislation. Without paraphrasing Georges Pompidou, there is a time when we must stop worrying people. Those of our fellow citizens who possess weapons by tradition, for hunting or sport shooting, who are honest and respectful of the rules, must not think that the ratification of this protocol will upset them or bother them, while the legislation is already very strict: European firearms card, regular checks... We talked about Disembarkation or Resistance in the North and Picardia. It is still possible to find a Walther PPK, a Mauser or a Sten who dates from the grandfather or the great grandfather. But if we look at French crime, it has become exceptional that a weapon of war, even not entirely to the standards, poses a major problem: it is usually kept between two sheets, without more cartridges available. It is very good, Mr. Secretary of State, that you have made it clear that our fellow citizens must understand that this bill, which our group will vote with both hands, does not concern honest people who hunt or do sport shooting. Without weapons manufacturers, our country is now facing the arrival of illicit weapons. There is a "destocking" in the eastern countries, in Bosnia, in the Balkans, but also in Libya, where the sector is more difficult to trace. But weapons don't travel alone. It is terrible to see how much they love the company: that of the people who organize the trafficking of human beings, who trade drugs or – in the case of smugglers – migrants. It is absolutely necessary to fight against this. In your excellent report, Mr rapporteur, you stress the importance of intelligence, so dear to Talleyrand. Germany works in this direction very regularly with us, especially in the Balkans. Free movement in the Schengen area is a problem. I'm going to talk to you about a time that the under-20s can't know... When I was seven or eight and my dad was going to Belgium, there were still customs officers. He smoked the cigarillo and the family's pleasure on Sunday was to bring back a new box. I can talk about it, since there is a statute of limitations, and I hope that at the age of eighty-nine my dad will not be bored. There was a real control at the time. Today, he's gone. I'm not asking for it to be restored; I see a reality. The supporters who went to Russia to see the French team play went all over Europe without ever having to stop. I go to Poland regularly without ever having any control. It is therefore very easy to bring weapons into France: hence the interest of Franco-German intelligence, in particular, in the Balkans and the former countries of the Soviet bloc. That seems essential to me. The French State is very respectful of the legislation on arms. You may contradict me, Mr. Secretary of State, but I believe that any arms export is prohibited, unless authorized by the Government, after an inter-ministerial consultation. Am I right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u200	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u201	Thank you. So things are extremely clear, and we can only congratulate them. If anything seems perfect, let me ask you a school case. When, many years ago, France held a referendum on the Comoros, one of the islands of the archipelago decided to remain French. This decision, which I welcome, has been challenged by the United Nations. At present, we are still not in compliance with United Nations resolutions, for which the Comoros is a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u202	That's right! We had also voted against Mayotte's departmentalization project!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u203	Indeed! Jean-Paul Lecoq often talks about it, particularly to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But I don't agree with him. The position of the United Nations could have led us to an embargo. We ourselves in France are applying embargoes to certain countries for comparable reasons. Why don't we talk about Crimea? Nothing distinguishes the two decisions, except the fact that forty years have passed. The problem is always the same. I spoke about it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: Jean-Yves Le Drian visited Iran a short time ago and met with the head of staff of the Iranian army, who said to him very kindly: "You know, with the embargo, we have to defend ourselves, so we produce our own weapons because we don't have them! » It is all the complexity of this world of armaments, of this UN and international world. Are we more legitimate vis-à-vis the Comoros? Or do we get preferential treatment? Let's imagine that there is an arms embargo in France. A problem would then arise very clearly. Our light weapons are no longer under our sovereignty;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u204	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u205	... we buy weapons from Germany – and when I say weapons, they're also ammunition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u206	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u207	This is a major issue. The situation is not as simple as it seems. If Europe – or some European countries – decided to apply an embargo to us because Mayotte's status did not correspond to what the UN wanted, we would no longer have light weapons or ammunition supplies, and we would be very bored. This is a case of school, which corresponds to a real situation and which, I believe, is legal in nature. I was referring to Crimea: Russia is a permanent member of the Security Council, like France. This is quite a problem, which I wanted to submit to you; I do not know if it is possible to answer the questions that he raises today, but I am giving the state of my thinking to all my colleagues. I went to Djibouti with the chairman of the committee to meet with the French forces. A number of military personnel are very concerned that we have thus lost our sovereignty over our individual armaments. Guns, we'll always have them; Ammunition is often much more complicated. We can some day, if any difficulty arises, lose our military autonomy in the area of small arms and light weapons. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] I will end by quoting a word from the anarchist Proudhon that I often think of: "To tears answer weapons. He was talking about resisting a political system. It can also be a question of resistance to totalitarianism: to the tears of occupied France replied the weapons that the Allies have provided us. Unfortunately, we have seen it again recently, weapons answer tears.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u209	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u210	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we can only agree with the desire to combat organised crime and illicit arms trafficking, as we can only agree with the coordinated fight between States, under the auspices of the United Nations, against such trafficking. Under the Palermo Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, France had not yet signed the specific protocol against firearms. As of 14 November 2017, the Protocol already had 115 States parties. However, it is important to participate in the mechanisms to combat trafficking in all kinds, particularly arms, because of their obvious danger. The possession of weapons by private individuals is thus a real problem. In the United States, where the culture of arms is particularly developed, there are frequent tragedies resulting from the action of pro-weapon lobbies and the inaction of the State. Their cause, in fact, cannot reside only in the grave disturbance of the minds of people who decide to shoot others by surprise, former classmates by revenge spirit or clients of a Orlando nightclub by LGBTQI-phobia, by cowardly ideology and murder. In the United States, the weapons behind these tragedies are usually perfectly legal. Fortunately, in France, we are not there. But France is far from being free of gun deaths. If I take the most recent case brought to the attention of the general public, two men were shot dead during a shooting in a city of Salon-de-Provence during the night of Monday to Tuesday, it has been learned from police sources. The victims were killed by heavy weapons. According to the AFP, if the trail of a settlement of accounts were to be confirmed, it would be the fourteenth and fifteenth person who died in these circumstances in 2018 in the department of Bouches-du-Rhône alone. Last year, there were 13 death-count settlements in the same department, and 28 in 2016, most of which were based on drug trafficking. This latter case corresponds to a pattern unfortunately too widespread. In fact, arms trafficking is rarely isolated: people who use illegal weapons obviously have other illegal activities. Trafficking feeds into a spiral of violence. The sphere of illegality feeds a vast, apparently easy, silver machine, yet still dirty. I recently asked a written question about domestic animal trafficking. The subject seems anecdotal and devoid of any connection with the one who occupies us, but it is not. First, I learned that this was the third most profitable traffic in France, after arms trafficking and drug trafficking. A chihuahua bought an average of 250 euros in Slovakia is sold for 1000 to 3000 euros in a pet store. It is estimated that 700000 puppies are sold in France every year out of any official circuit. I'll let you calculate the amount of dirty money so generated. Then, this money feeds other networks: trafficking in human beings, prostitution, but also trafficking in firearms. It transits through tax havens – just like the one that tax evasion takes away from the public treasury –, in principle with little regard to the origin of the funds. The latter can be exempt from tax, resulting from trafficking in people, weapons, organs, drugs: no matter! This dirty money is brewed again and is used to finance corruption, terrorist companies and other trafficking. I would like to point out that on 28 June last, cement manufacturer Lafarge, accused of financing terrorist organizations in Syria, was charged with complicity in crimes against humanity, financing a terrorist enterprise, endangering the lives of others and violating an embargo. The company is suspected of having paid, through tax havens, nearly €13 million to promote its raw materials purchases and the free movement of its employees and goods. What do you think the money paid by the Lafarge group could have been used for? The loop of mad money is thus closed. According to an article in Figaro, a total of 17000 to 25500 billion euros would be hidden in tax havens, that is, to give an order of magnitude – which is necessary, as the figures are dizzying – the GDP of the United States and Japan combined. Again, the study did not take into account non-financial assets such as real estate, yachts, jets, works of art or jewellery: it excluded these assets and relied in particular on figures from the World Bank. The date is all found to talk about the rich: the magazine Challenges publishes today even its annual ranking of fortunes. The wealth of the first 500 French fortunes is approaching 650 billion euros, or 30% of France's GDP. A crazy money, as some would say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u211	They're the first of the ropes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u212	Since 2008, the wealth of the richest has tripled, increasing much more than domestic production, which has grown by only 12%. As a matter of fact, it is the luxury industry that benefits these ultra-rich people the most. The shareholders of major luxury groups thus trust four of the top six places in the rankings and their combined wealth accounts for one third of the combined wealth of the 500 of the rankings. Nice performance! How much of this money will end up in tax havens? How many yachts, jets, other goods will be fraudulently imported through complex mounts? What part of this money will end up in corruption and trafficking? The fight against tax havens, in addition to its obvious benefits for the finances of the state and the lives of people – to which it could finally make it possible to stop unnecessarily tightening its belt – contributes to the fight against terrorism and international crime. Ana Gomes, Portuguese MEP, Vice-President of the European Parliament's Special Committee on Financial Crime, Tax Fraud and Tax Evasion, which delivered its conclusions in 2017, and member of the Special Committee on Terrorism, clearly links tax havens, organised crime and terrorist financing. The parliamentary committee of inquiry, of which she was Vice-President, clearly establishes the total hypocrisy of many States, including members of the European Union, which, in their speeches, proclaims their willingness to fight against tax evasion and the laundering and crime associated with it, while in reality they are extremely timid – including France – when it comes to combating tax evasion. We know that, despite countless parliamentary initiatives, Bercy's lock is still not lifted and that Member States of the European Union themselves are tax havens. Curiously, their list partially overlaps with those of countries that have not yet acceded to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms... The United Kingdom, Ireland, Malta and Luxembourg, which are well-known tax havens, have either not ratified or acceded to it. What would France do on this list? The absence of a fight against tax evasion is extremely dangerous for Europe, and not just for our budgets, according to Ana Gomes. This is a public security problem, since it involves money laundering and all kinds of criminal networks, including those behind the financing of terrorism, such as human trafficking networks. Combating money laundering means combating the financing of terrorism. Allowing money laundering means allowing all kinds of abject trafficking and literally giving them weapons by feeding criminal and mafia networks that make it possible to obtain them. From great banditry to mafia and organized terrorism, all are financed by this dirty money. Thus, adopting this protocol is only the least of all things. But marking arms, regulating brokering, strengthening border control, creating licences for arms exports, all useful and urgent things, will solve only part of the problem. The sources of financing and disposal of these traffics must be dried up by terrorizing tax havens. To do so, we need legal weapons, so the political will to act: their absence is tantamount to permission to continue to trade. Export control brings me to another subject, directly related to the previous one: exports that are totally legal and authorized by the Ministry of Armed Forces. The report to Parliament on this subject has been submitted to us very recently; I read it carefully. Beyond the arms trade treaty ratified by France, common criteria for the export of conventional arms have been defined at European Union level. There are eight of them, including respect for human rights in the country of final destination and respect for humanitarian law by that country, as well as the preservation of regional peace, security and stability: Member States are studying the existence or likelihood of an armed conflict between the recipient and another country. On the basis of these criteria, Member States cannot export arms to certain countries: Venezuela, Russia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Syria and, of course, Yemen since 2015. However, Saudi Arabia is not under such an embargo on the part of the European Union. However, the United Nations calls on Saudi Arabia to put an end to the blockade that prevents the delivery of humanitarian aid to Yemen, which has been threatened by the greatest famine in recent years. A report published by the UN at the end of January 2016 denounces the disproportionate use of force by the Arab coalition, which often targets civilians, and the use of the threat of famine as a weapon of war. However, France is one of Saudi Arabia's preferred suppliers – our second customer, with 174 licences notified in 2017. By selling Mirage, Leclerc or Rafale tanks to France, France has committed itself to maintaining it for 15 to 25 years. However, in February 2016 the European Parliament called on the European Union to apply an arms embargo to Saudi Arabia, but France did not end its military support. Apparently, since it is only the European Parliament, and not a decision of the European Union itself, France is continuing its arms exports to Saudi Arabia, to believe the same report to Parliament. That is the consideration that the Government attaches to this institution, yet the most democratic of the European Union since it is directly elected by the people. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Of course, we support the accession to the United Nations protocol to combat trafficking in firearms. France must act to strengthen the UN framework in a spirit of cooperation in order to work for peace. But that will not be enough. In order to combat all trafficking, especially arms trafficking, tax havens must be sunk. Finally, France itself must stop authorizing the export of arms, which will undoubtedly be found in international conflicts in which the purchasing countries are guilty of very serious violations of international law and potential war crimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u213	Mr Jean-Marie Fiévet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u214	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, France, with its position in front of the international scene, must be fully engaged in the fight against proliferation. It is our country's moral, ethical, philosophical and political responsibility. France, as a major player in the world arms market, must assume a special responsibility. Let me stress here the courage of the Government, which decided to accede to the protocol when its predecessors had preferred to postpone the effort over and over again. Officially, there are 4 million weapons in France. The regular and the enthusiast of the shooting stands that I am is one of the registered holders. Unfortunately, despite strict regulations, we deplore nearly 1800 firearm deaths every year in the country, including 140 homicides. It is estimated that 800 million small arms and light weapons are in circulation worldwide, present on all continents and held by all kinds of criminal, mafia or terrorist groups. It is also estimated that they cause nearly 90 per cent of the victims of armed conflict, particularly affecting the civilian population, including women and children. This same trafficking feeds human trafficking, which contributes to parallel markets. It therefore imposes on us a political choice of the firmest. The illicit spread of these weapons continues to fuel the still too many regional conflicts and to promote organized crime and terrorism, making it a major factor in the political destabilization of the most fragile States and a hindrance to their development. This is a double penalty for these countries, already in great difficulty. It was therefore up to France to react vigorously! As the President of the Republic has repeatedly pointed out, cooperation between international partners is essential. It reinforces the impact of actions carried out within our borders as well as at the international level. The cooperation and sharing of information creates positive synergies that can help to take the lead in dealing with traffickers who are going further on the crime scale. The aim of such a strategy is to strengthen and, above all, to coordinate our actions. As many of our colleagues have shown very well, this text is a step forward that contributes to strengthening the legislative framework for arms control. It increases awareness of the violence inherent in small arms and light weapons and promotes good practices in order to reduce and prevent armed violence. France, thanks to its extensive diplomatic network, has committed itself to the generalization of these instruments, in particular by contributing to the promotion of the protocol to non-signatory States. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The development and harmonization of arms control regulations, including the necessary strengthening of criminal justice measures provided for in the draft law, will facilitate the investigation and prosecution of traffickers. In this way, we collectively contribute to the establishment of a safer world in which civilian populations will be better protected from the barbarism of individuals, thus reducing the trend of violence, which is the most beautiful of universal promises. Through our individual vote and collective action, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to contribute to the establishment of a more regulated and human rights-based world order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u215	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u216	Madam President, Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are proposed to approve the accession to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, adopted by the United Nations on 31 May 2001. Its objective is to prevent and combat the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms. There is a right to question the technical obstacles that prevented it from being ratified earlier, including the budgetary and human resources necessary for the implementation of the monitoring procedures provided for in the text. These technical obstacles, the Government has removed them! I would therefore like to stress first of all the context in which the accession process was unlocked by the French State, before putting the protocol back into our country's comprehensive and proactive approach to combating the spread of small arms and light weapons and their ammunition. "2015 [...] year of the greatest dramas and the first response of the state, of the hard realization of the threats until then latent": it is by this sentence of Claire Landais, extracted from the presentation of the report of activity of the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security, that I will open my remarks. Indeed, it was following the terrorist attacks in January and November 2015 that France's accession to this Protocol was relaunched. Conventional arms trafficking poses a threat to international peace and stability as well as to the security of States. These illicit flows, from which all regions of the globe suffer – Middle East, Balkans, Eastern Europe, Sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean – fuel conflicts but also organized crime and international terrorism. Small arms and light weapons – SALW, for connoisseurs – that we are interested in today are at the heart of this trade, because they are easy to use, to transport and to hide, and their ammunition as well. As our rapporteur pointed out last May during the examination of the bill in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is clear that "the attacks of November 2015 were carried out with weapons from trafficking from the countries of the East". Besides, the numbers are there. According to the United Nations, between 40 and 60 per cent of the trade in small arms and light weapons is illicit at some point in time. As a reminder, these weapons would kill 500,000 people a year. Therefore, even though France has fallen behind in adopting the protocol, we should now welcome all the initiatives supported by our country, including the adoption of the International Tracing Instrument, the development of a best practice guide to prevent destabilizing transfers of small arms and light weapons through air transport and, in 2018, the development of a good practice guide on the neutralization of small arms and light weapons by the OSCE, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Above all – and I will conclude on this point – France has just chaired the Third Review Conference of the United Nations Programme of Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons, held in New York from 19 to 28 June. It adopted a political declaration and, above all, an operational action plan and a schedule of meetings for the next six years. These new commitments should make it possible to combat the illicit trade in firearms even more effectively at the national, regional and global levels. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] While there are many international instruments to prevent and combat the spread, excessive accumulation and illicit flows of small arms and light weapons, this Protocol constitutes the only legally binding international agreement specifically aimed at controlling firearms and combating illicit trafficking. That is why, in the current context of globalisation and the persistence of a high terrorist risk, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve France's accession to this protocol which is fundamental to the security of our country and the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u217	Mrs Nicole Le Peih has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u218	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the first task of the State, everyone will agree, is to protect our citizens and ensure security in the national territory. We live in a world of uncertainty, in which the nature of the threat has changed profoundly and our daily lives have changed profoundly for several years. The terrorist threat, in three years, has brought about profound changes. It is increasingly endogenous and polymorphic. In addition, it combines with other threats and other delinquent risks to which our society is exposed. We must therefore adapt our organization and our reactions. Thirteen years ago, the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition entered into force officially four years after the adoption in New York of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. If, for so many years, France's accession to the Protocol has not been successful due to difficulties posed by the technical arrangements as well as the budgetary and human resources necessary for the implementation of the control procedures provided for, we can now say that all administrative obstacles have been overcome. We can only welcome France's work and commitment, which is part of a comprehensive strategy to mobilize against firearms trafficking in international fora, particularly since the terrorist attacks in January and November 2015. To this end, through this bill, French legislation will penalise the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition, as well as the illegal falsification or erasure, abduction and alteration of the marks to be worn by firearms and the attempt to commit or become an accomplice to one of these offences and to organize, direct, facilitate, encourage or promote its commission. As soon as it is adopted, France will finally take the necessary measures to allow the confiscation of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition which have been illicitly manufactured or trafficked, in order to prevent them from falling into the hands of persons who are not authorized to detain them, seizing them and destroying them. Such a challenge requires a policy of preventing and combating behaviour and actions that promote the spread of arms trafficking, assumed as such. The Protocol therefore contains several provisions to maintain detailed records on the import, export and transit movements of firearms. This will allow us to keep information on firearms, their parts, components and ammunition for 10 years to ensure their tracing and identification. An international device for marking firearms will be adopted and applied when they are manufactured and as soon as they are imported. We will pursue with determination and intransigence a genuine policy of preventing theft, loss and diversion of firearms by strengthening export controls, export points and border controls. Last but not least, it is the path of bilateral, regional and international cooperation between States parties and with the international organizations concerned that is privileged and strengthened here. Information on arms manufacturers, dealers, importers and authorized exporters will be exchanged among States, as will the identity of the criminal groups concerned, means of concealment, routes used by traffickers and good practices to combat trafficking. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] National contact points will be established to ensure liaison between States Parties and to seek the support of the relevant industrial and commercial actors. To prevent, combat and eradicate as a matter of urgency the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms and their components: this is the objective of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, as these activities are detrimental to the security of France and the world as a whole and constitute a threat to the well-being of peoples and their right to live in peace!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u219	The general discussion is closed. On the single article, I am seized by the groups La République en marche and Nouvelle Gauche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u220	[[Smile]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, because I think we can welcome a fairly broad consensus – at least between the groups represented in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u221	It's quite rare indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u222	This is a welcome development, given the purpose of the protocol we are debating. A number of comments on the arms trade fall within another framework, including that of defence equipment. I would remind you that all this is framed in our country. Indeed, the French control system is very demanding and is based on very strict principles. The general principle is prohibition, which is quite unique. It leads to state control over the entire defence sector, as well as arms flows. Several European states have control only when the equipment is in the process of being delivered. In France, a check takes place at each stage, from commercial prospecting to delivery. It is therefore a rather strict device. When the inter-ministerial commissions for the study of exports of war material – the famous CIEEMGs – meet, they carry out a rigorous assessment of applications, taking into account in particular the country's internal situation, the final destination of weapons and the regional environment. With regard to Yemen, which was mentioned, it was recalled that the United Nations Security Council had established a sanctions regime imposing an arms embargo targeted at the Houthi forces, within the framework of resolution 2216. On the other hand, with regard to the coalition that is struggling with these same forces, I can tell you that a number of messages have been delivered at the highest level by the President of the Republic, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs to their interlocutors on the occasion of their arrival. Know that we are vigilant and demanding. I would point out that the passage of this bill – I certainly hope it will be in a few minutes! – to strengthen the French voice on the international scene even more, as we are very committed to a number of actions over the next few weeks: on the one hand, at the OSCE, where we are working towards the adoption of a number of good practices within the framework of the Wassenaar Arrangement; On the other hand, in August 2018, France will assume the Vice-Presidentship of the Fourth Conference of States Parties to the Arms Trade Treaty. This debate is therefore timely and I am delighted that it will help to strengthen a voice from France: it is all to his honour and to yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u223	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u224	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Joachim Son-Forget, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u225	In the preamble, I would say that of course we are very much in favour of acceding to this protocol, of France's general commitments in terms of disarmament, of controlling certain types of weapons – chemical, nuclear – in particular with a view to a more inclusive non-proliferation treaty 2020. It is very good that we are discussing smaller calibre weapons – this subject is indeed a bit taboo in France. There was a pre-war weapons culture for many historical reasons and it disappeared for the same reasons. This has positive effects, but also perverse effects. Since my colleague Jean-Marie Fiévet has revealed himself, I will do the same: as a fan of sports shooting and as a collector, we meet many people and realize that our law enforcement agencies are obliged to practice it. The amount of fire they have at their disposal as part of their work is ridiculous – we're shooting in a week what they're shooting in a year. They are therefore obliged to arm themselves and train by their own means. That's a question we'll have to study. On the other hand, we will also have to ask ourselves about the arming of the personnel of guarding companies: what increase in the range of wage attractiveness to recruit staff of a psychic capacity so that they can react adequately? Finally, let us not be naive about the black market in firearms. The ordinary citizen, as honest as we are, complies with all the obligations and authorisations, carries out the number of shots required, has a European firearms card, etc. On the other hand, the black market exists. Europe wants to impose a new regulation which I believe will have a perverse effect in favour of it. The culture of arms is different in all countries – in Switzerland, for example, it is also easier to possess weapons: it is not the same to be a Swiss, an American or an armed French. We will have to ask ourselves other questions, about education, about the well-being of the population – I know very well that we usually do, of course – because if gun violence exists, it is not only because of weapons. Many more questions will therefore have to be asked from this point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u226	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u227	As my colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq has said with his usual brilliance, we will vote for France's accession to this protocol against the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. Indeed, this text satisfies us inasmuch as the treaty affects both the role of the State in the control of arms in the territory and also the rules on the transfer of arms to civilians, their imports and exports. It was also common sense to provide for measures to promote better international cooperation, whether it concerned international organizations themselves or cooperation among States. Finally, it enables better cooperation to counter the scourge of arms proliferation, thereby helping to limit the scale of conflicts and civilian casualties. We are also pleased that France has preserved, despite a reserve, the weapons of collection and the historic weapons. Now, as a complement to the Twenty-Four that have signed this Protocol, France must ensure that the remaining countries of the European Union and, more generally, of Europe in turn accede to this Convention. I stress this point, stressed by Jean-Paul Lecoq: France should finally honour its international commitments – I am thinking in particular of the arms trade treaty ratified by our country, which provides that countries undertake not to allow arms transfers if there is a preponderant or clear risk that these weapons may be used to commit or facilitate serious violations of international humanitarian law. Much remains to be done and, in this area, France is absolutely not exemplary. In the end, we do not really believe that limiting the illicit trafficking and manufacture of small arms and light weapons is the way to combat the endemic violence that affects so many parts of the world, but, as we have said and I repeat, we will vote to accede to this protocol by being vigilant about the future of trade in all weapons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u228	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u229	The New Left Group, of course, fully supports the fight against arms trafficking, often associated, as has been said on many occasions, with drug and human trafficking. Our country has also been a victim of the illicit circulation of weapons during the various attacks and the damage is numerous throughout the world. Of course, we will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u230	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Demilly, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u231	I will be very brief: I share everything that has just been said. Our group will also vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u232	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u233	We will vote for it, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u234	The next speaker is Mr Frédéric Petit, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u235	Of course, we will vote for this text. I would simply like to draw your attention to something that has been much discussed today, particularly with the very good example given by our colleague Hutin: we must not confuse the various international bodies. Very often, we are referred to multilateralism, according to which we should always go through the United Nations. You have to be very vigilant. Multilateralism does not mean global democratic centralism! It is also the national parliaments, it is also the diversity, the possibility to arrange here in one way and there in another. I am always surprised that, on one side of the House, one always refers to the United Nations, as if it were to have a police force.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u236	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u237	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u238	Thank you for your unanimous vote on this important text for our country. We were lagging behind, but we filled it, to the satisfaction of all political groups and the Government. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u239	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u240	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u241	The next item is the re-reading of the proposal for a law on the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes and communities of agglomeration (No. 882, 1082).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u242	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u243	Madam President, Madam rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting today to discuss the proposal for a law on the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation competences to communities of communes and communities of agglomeration, after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. I can only regret this failure because, as everyone knows, the challenges facing us collectively, in terms of water quality and resources, are colossal. They question the efficiency of our devices and the porting of our investments. They require answers from us as soon as possible. The ecological and financial issues and the expertise they require require a transfer of water and sanitation to inter-communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u244	And the multinationals!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u245	The ecological imperative must make us aware of the urgency of improving access to water at any point in the territory. However, we know that situations are very disparate. The water to which we must give ourselves access must be of good quality. In some places, global warming causes the resource to dry up In others, recent floods or heavy rains have caused water pollution in groundwater or storage areas, both in urban and rural areas. The evolution of our farming methods, such as our consumption and our production system, make it necessary to modernise our water systems. From an economic point of view, our facilities are often aging. The leak rate of our networks is around 30 per cent on average and sometimes more than 50 per cent. It is, in total, more than 1 billion litres of water that are captured, transported, processed in our plants every year but never reached the tap. The Water Assizes, whose conclusions of the first sequence will be presented on July 17, have made it possible to draw other observations, such as, for example, that of the fragmentation of competence between many structures, which sometimes hinders its effectiveness. The work carried out within the Assisses also tends to prove that the level of knowledge of the networks remains too low. However, the more expert the drinking water services are, the better the knowledge of the system, and therefore its performance and management. To respond to this multiplicity of challenges, a first mutualization movement began between 2010 and 2016. As of October 1, 2017, 20 per cent of communities had already transferred water competence, and 70 per cent of communities had a sanitation competence – there is, as you can see, a significant gap between the two jurisdictions, which we must take into account. For agglomeration communities, 51 per cent transferred water competence, and 80 per cent transferred sanitation competence. However, the pace is slow enough. The provisions of the Act on the New Territorial Organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRE Act, are intended to accelerate this movement. The municipalities have also chosen to delegate competence to trade unions. During my many trips, I was able to see that the communes had made efforts. In Vienna, for example, the "Vienna Waters" trade union takes charge of water and sanitation skills over almost the entire area of the department in order to have a unified vision of competence and to propose a harmonized tariff. Inter-communities can also use different forms of management, such as public service delegations or authorities – many inter-communalities have returned to government in recent years – to manage water and sanitation skills to the best of their ability, depending on their local specificities, the law allowing them to maintain flexibility. Municipalities will only deal effectively with the risk of water quality and resource depletion if they interconnect their networks and pool their resources on a scale they will have to choose. These environmental issues are coupled with very important financial issues. The investment required is estimated at EUR 5 billion. Each euro spent on water and sanitation must enable the largest volume of water to be delivered to the tap. It is in this way that we will reduce the bill for communities and users. In order to create new room for manoeuvre, resources and skills must be pooled. This is the choice that has already been made by half of the municipalities, by transferring this competence to intercommunality. In doing so, they sought to streamline their operating costs and to seek economies of scale. In this regard, the Prime Minister was clear at the December National Conference of Territories in Cahors, when he said: "We will not come back to the principle of a mandatory transfer of water and sanitation skills to inter-communities. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u246	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u247	However, the Government carried out a concerted effort and heard the diversity of situations in the implementation of the competence. After a concerted effort, which I do not return to, and after the first reading, the Government has recognized the diversity of situations on the ground, which call for differentiated solutions. This is for example the case of some isolated rural communes or mountain communes, which benefit from very special natural circumstances, either because the perimeter of the intercommunality is covered by several river basins or because the municipality is very far from the existing networks in the territory. We have therefore worked collectively to find a compromise text, which reconciles the stakes of a necessary transfer with those, legitimate, of an adaptation to certain local realities. This is the meaning of the mission entrusted to me by the Prime Minister and which led to the proposal for a clause to safeguard communal freedoms. This clause to safeguard communal freedoms gives municipalities belonging to communities of municipalities the opportunity to oppose the transfer of water and sanitation skills before 1 July 2019, if 25% of them represent at least 20% of the population in this sense. This blocking capacity shall be exercised until 1 January 2026, the date on which the transfer becomes compulsory. This possibility is reserved for communities of communes because, on the one hand, they mainly cover mountain areas and rural areas and, on the other hand, because the majority of agglomeration communities have already transferred or are in the process of preparing them. The real transfer difficulties are concentrated on water, not on sanitation, as I said earlier. This has led us to propose that local elected representatives be able to transfer the sanitation competence from 1 January 2020 and that they be able to give themselves, through the blocking capacity, an additional time to transfer water if they are not ready to do so. Finally, we have heard the difficulties related to the mechanism of representation-substitution in trade unions, for communities of communes. We have made and again make the proposal not to limit this mechanism to an area deemed too restrictive, by removing the threshold of three public institutions for inter-communal cooperation – EPCI. This mechanism will therefore be able to play without preconditions to ensure the sustainability of existing structures, i.e. trade unions. I am pleased that the Senate has endorsed this proposal. All these provisions therefore form a balanced text, the result of a compromise. They form the basis of the Government's position, which it has held and will continue to hold during the parliamentary debates. I therefore welcome the fact that the committee has re-established the text of the National Assembly. Thank you, rapporteur. The parliamentary debate also led to the emergence of new topics, on which I had committed myself, on the benches of the Senate, to provide answers during the parliamentary shuttle. First of all, I want to talk about stormwater management. It is an important issue, to the convergence of several areas of action of local and regional authorities and their groups, such as sanitation, roads and, in certain circumstances, the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods – GEMAPI. In its report to Parliament, provided for in article 7 of the Act on the exercise of the powers of local and regional authorities in the field of GEMAPI, the Government stressed the variety of technical means that can be mobilised to ensure efficient management of stormwater and runoff, as well as the links maintained with the competence "sanitation", "road", or "GEMAPI". These factors indicate the need to reconcile the legal clarification of the distribution of powers exercised by local and regional authorities with the flexibility to implement those powers. It is therefore appropriate to define a competence for the management of urban rainwater which can be identified separately. The Council of State treats the management of urban rainwater as a public service under the competence of "sanitation" where the latter is exercised automatically by an EPCI. This competence is exercised in urbanized and urbanised areas, which in turn may be defined, for the purposes of implementing the provisions of the Rainwater Management Act, such as those covered by an urban planning document. This connection makes sense in urbanised areas, often with a high proportion of unitary networks – I am thinking of urban communities and metropolises. This is the present state of law. For communities of communes, however, the Government understands the need to make "urban rainwater" competence optional, for reasons of better adaptation to the diversity of situations encountered on the ground. This must indeed lead, as some of the amendments which we are going to discuss, to make it a separate competence from the "sanitation" competence, which, for its part, must be exercised at inter-municipal level. I would also like to mention the case of the conditions of the blocking minority for the municipalities that have already transferred the non-collective sanitation to their community of communes. Often, in rural areas, the public non-collective sanitation service – SPANC – was spontaneously organised at the community level. The voluntary transfer of non-collective sanitation is very present in the rural world, since more than half of the communities of municipalities exercising non-collective sanitation competence do not exercise collective sanitation competence. The NOTRE Act, by providing for an inextricable pool of competences, meant that communes belonging to communities of communes exercising part of the competence could not benefit from the possibility of blocking. We have heard this contradiction and we will therefore be in favour of the municipalities being able, by using the blocking minority, to exercise collective consolidation at the communal level and non-collective sanitation at the community level, until 2026, at the maximum. It is indeed limited and justified by the particular characteristics of the organisation of non-collective sanitation. As you have understood, it is with determination that we must approach this debate with important consequences for all our communes and our intercommunalities and for all the French, no matter where they live. It is also an issue of organizing our local communities and, as you can see, the Government has heard some of their concerns. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] After the hours of debate with the associations of elected representatives, after the hours of debate in each Chamber, I believe that we have taken into account the diversity of situations and provided flexibility in the application of the law. It is therefore realistic and effective that we are approaching this discussion, and I hope that it will soon be concluded. As you know, the choice will have to be made before July 1, 2019, in a year's time. The sooner the law is passed, the better.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u248	Mrs Emilie Chalas, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u249	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the decentralization process, the division of powers between the different territorial levels has been a matter of debate. This debate is perfectly legitimate: it questions the political and administrative organization of the Republic, in a current context marked by an increasing demand for the readability and effectiveness of public action. These issues must not be equated with a war of sterile power between local authorities, intercommunities and the state. Nor should they dissolve in vast technical disputes that are disconnected from the concerns expressed by our fellow citizens. On the contrary, these issues concern our daily lives in a concrete way, because they are at the heart of what we share. The bill that we are considering today at a new reading is in this perspective. Indeed, "water" and "sanitation" skills represent public services that are exposed to considerable challenges before the legislator cannot remain inert. However, this need for action should not lead to a return to the past. The dynamics of the transfer of powers from municipalities to inter-communities have been in existence for nearly 20 years. The NOTR law of 7 August 2015 consolidates this movement, setting in particular 1 January 2020 the date on which the powers "water" and "sanitation" will be necessarily transferred to all public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation. I would like to say this simply and clearly to all of our colleagues and mainly to our colleagues. The Republicans: it is illusory to want to break this dynamic which meets long-term imperatives, both technical and financial. We don't prepare the future by swimming against the current. However, I am fully aware of the difficulties that could arise from the mandatory transfer of these competences by 2020. That is precisely the purpose of this bill, by allowing for the flexibility of the provisions of the NOTRe law while respecting its long-term objective. I have already had the opportunity to say so at first reading. I repeat this today: this text respects the compromise reached at the end of last year by a working group which, at the initiative of the Minister, brought together eight MPs and eight senators of different sensitivities to resolve the problems faced by some elected officials in the implementation of these transfers of powers. The purpose of this bill has never been to abolish the mandatory nature of these transfers of powers, but to adapt them to the specificities of the communities of communes, in order to guarantee a serene and unhurried transfer. Article 1 provides for the establishment of a blockage minority mechanism that can be easily used to give the communes members of communes wishing to postpone the transfer of water and sanitation skills between 2020 and 1 January 2026. This relaxation reached consensus in all the groups at the first reading. However, it was simply swept away during the Senate review, in disregard of the conclusions adopted by the working group and signed unanimously by its members. How, then, is it possible to blame this bill for not seeking a compromise route? I therefore turn back the criticisms of the alleged lack of consensus towards those who formulate them and who, in fact, want to repeal the provisions of the NOTRe law, by which the transfer of these powers at inter-municipal level is mandatory. I repeat again: in the long term, the compulsory transfer of water and sanitation skills to inter-communities remains essential. Technically, it is essential because the knowledge and management of water and sanitation systems are considerably less satisfactory in small services of less than 3500 users than in larger ones, as evidenced by the results of the indicators of knowledge and heritage management revealed last June by the Agence française pour la biodiversité at the Assises de l'eau. The evaluation of the quality and performance of the networks shows the same observation, which justifies the implementation of a pooling of resources at intercommunal level by entrusting, therefore, the "water" and "sanitation" competences to the EPCI. This pooling also responds to a major budgetary challenge: to guarantee the financial means necessary for the resumption of investments in order to ensure the sustainability and strengthening of all our water networks. It is of course at the inter-municipal level that solidarity between the territories must develop. It is this principle of solidarity to which we are all committed that must be defended and promoted, by developing, through this text, the mechanisms provided for by the NOTRE law, so that the transfer of these powers takes place in optimal conditions. Furthermore, in accordance with the case law and circulars, the draft law explicitly includes stormwater management within the competence of sanitation, with stormwater falling within the compulsory competence of intercommunal authorities. Finally, it relaxes, because that is the meaning of this text, the rules of representation-substitution in order to ensure a better stability of the structures of territorial cooperation bringing together within them several communities of communes and communities of agglomeration. With the minister, I have been driven since the beginning of the legislative process by a spirit of compromise. The relaxations contained in this bill are intended to be completed during the discussion of the text this evening. This is proof that dialogue exists and that it can best meet the expectations expressed on these issues. Thus, in agreement with the MODEM and La République groups on the move, I will present two easing amendments in order, on the one hand, to allow the exercise of the blocking minority mechanism in the case of a partial transfer of sanitation competence to the community of communes, and, on the other hand, that the management of stormwater remains an optional competence for the communities of communes, because of the peculiarities of these territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, this text respects a balance which it was not possible to maintain at the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee. We reject both the status quo and the overbidding. To use these issues, which are essential for the communes, for political purposes, is counterproductive and non-exhaustive. There is no need to reopen the debate on the NOTRE law. However, it is necessary to adjust its provisions in order to safeguard its scope, which this bill will make possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u250	In the general debate, Mr Stéphane Demilly spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u251	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the law on the new territorial organisation of the Republic, known as the NOTRe Act, has given rise to much debate in this House and, more than two years after its adoption, it has to be noted that it still raises questions and doubts. The apprehension aroused by the NOTRE law is not anomalous, since it envisages, in particular, a profound reorganization of local water and sanitation management by transforming, by 2020, this competence, which was previously optional for communities of communes and agglomeration communities, into a compulsory competence. There are now nearly 35,000 water and sanitation services in our country, managed by 24,000 communities. As of January 1, 2020, it is estimated that there will be only 1500 to 3500, an impressive reduction, and this seems to be the case for a more efficient public water service. The objective of the NOTRE Act is to reduce the fragmentation of services by pooling the resources, especially those of small municipalities, to achieve economies of scale, increase investment capacity and thus harmonise prices. While these benefits are not negligible, they have not been sufficient to reassure the actors concerned. That's enough. The debate has crystallized, I would even say, on the constrained aspect of the transfer of skills that has often been misperceived on the ground – and it is the former president of a community of communes who tells you so. In fact, it is in this kind of discussion that we will cruelly regret the contribution of local elected executives experienced in our assembly – but that is not the debate. Imposing an obligation on the communities has appeared, for many mayors, as a contradiction to the constitutional principle of the free administration of the communes. As you have understood, I am deeply convinced that local elected officials must be given some freedom, not only because they are legitimate because of their election, but above all because they alone have sufficient knowledge of the ground to determine the best option to be used. There is indeed a reality in our country, that of disparate territories, with their own specificities and geographical, topographic and demographic particularities. How can one claim that a device that operates in a dense area like a metropolis will also work for small municipalities in a peri-urban, rural and mountainous area? Uniformity is neither conceivable nor desirable in this case. Many local elected officials have therefore challenged, and still challenge, the hypothetical benefits of the transfer, regretting that a new jurisdiction has been withdrawn from them. They also rightly raise the complexity of pooling services that differ in their management methods, the duration of contracts, the price of water or the quality of infrastructure. These local concerns could not remain unanswered. As a result, parliamentarians were moved by this and chose to reconsider the provisions of the NOTRE Act. A new and long debate has opened... This, in fact, generates another piece of legislative thinking for me. Are bills intended, such as "post-war" amendments, to go back to the broad principles adopted shortly before in a bill? To put it less diplomatically and to translate it in concrete terms, the intercommunalities that have applied this compulsory transfer of competence for water and sanitation are, as is the case, the beak in the water. For these intercommunalities, which, either by reactivity or by a strategic concern to comply with the NOTRE law imposing the exercise of nine of twelve powers in order to retain the benefit of the improved overall operating allocation, these intercommunalities which have "taken blows", because this transfer of competence did not please everyone, in particular many rural mayors, do not understand that the rules of the game could be changed along the way. The cancellation or, in this case in this proposal, the time lag – at 2026 – of the obligation to integrate this competence makes these reactive intercommunal elected "cocus of the Republic" – forgive me this trivial expression. After all, if we're not ready in 2026, why not postpone in 2036? Imagine that the same reasoning is used with regard to speed limitation at 80 km/h and that, finally, in order to calm the generalised bronca in front of this unpopular decision, this regulation is not immediately applied, that the panels are stored in the garage and that the departments are left until 2026 to implement and enforce this new regulation! All this is not serious, but it is in the same way that we have lived on this subject from the beginning. Indeed, for the third time since the beginning of this legislature, we meet in session to discuss the transfer of this competence "water" and "sanitation" from the municipalities to the intercommunities. Our first debate dates back to October 2017, on the occasion of the "niche" of the group The Republicans. Our colleague Fabrice Brun had then submitted a text, already adopted at first reading by the Senate, aimed at maintaining water and sanitation skills in the optional competencies of communities of communes and communities of agglomeration. However, the parliamentary majority preferred to refer the text back to committee and present its own version a few months later. A version that, on paper, was intended to be more concerted. For example, a trans-party working group, bringing together senators and members of Parliament, was formed under your auspices, Madam Minister, to reach a consensus text, even though several political sensitivities involved in the drafting of this text were excluded at the time of its tabling.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u252	Others have not even been associated with this work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u253	In January, therefore, we found ourselves on these same benches for a second debate on the new bill put forward by the parliamentary majority. Without going back to the transfer obligation imposed by the NOTRE Act, it provided a longer period of time by adjusting the conditions for the transfer of "water" and "sanitation" competences to the communities of communes. To this end, it introduced a blocking minority, aligned with the one already planned for local intercommunal planning plans. Thus, municipalities were given the opportunity to oppose the transfer of powers before 1 July 2019 if 25% of them representing at least 20% of the population expressed themselves in this way. This text had been adopted by this House. But in April it was thoroughly reshaped when it was examined in the Senate. Our honourable senators have removed the mandatory nature of the transfer, which crystallizes all criticisms, and made it optional. The Senate also clarified the conditions for the transfer of rainwater management with sanitation according to the type of EPCI, and extended the scope of the whole text to communities of agglomeration rather than to communities of communes alone. The High Assembly had also included the obligation to transfer water and sanitation budgets to the new competent structure. I have also tabled an amendment to reintroduce this measure under the sacrosanct principle that "water is paying for water". Without these transfers of budgets and surpluses, reserves will need to be re-established to maintain the networks. In the end, consumers will therefore pay twice the price of water. However, it seems to me that the 1992 law provided that "water pays for water" and not that "water pays twice the water"! A transfer of jurisdiction must legitimately be accompanied by the transfer of the balances of the budgets concerned. When powers are transferred from the general budgets of the municipalities to the intercommunal ones, such as those of libraries and leisure centres, a commission is responsible for assessing the amount of the charge transferred to deduct it from the compensation allocation to the nearest cent. And we wouldn't do it for the annex budget for water and sanitation? It's incomprehensible! I'm going back to our episodes. Since the Senate version of the text was completely different from that of the Assembly, it was logical that a joint committee should be convened. Unfortunately, MPs and senators have not been able to reach an agreement. Even if this happens sometimes, in this case, one can only regret the turn taken by the debates at the meeting on 17 May. From the beginning, the parties present at the meeting remained arch-bouted on their position without really trying to understand each other's views. The Joint Joint Committee presents itself as a forum for dialogue. At that meeting, however, there was no exchange, there was only one series of speeches, since the arguments put forward did not find any echo among those supposed to listen to them. With such a simulacre of dialogue, this commission could only fail. We are therefore still losing a little more time in the parliamentary shuttle, as local elected officials suffer from all these delays until a clear and definitive decision is reached, especially since the transfer of water and sanitation skills has very important technical, financial and political consequences for the territories. It is not conceivable to leave certain intercommunalities in vagueness and indecision. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Unsurprisingly, when the text was examined in committee, the majority returned to all the amendments made by the Senate to re-establish the version of the National Assembly. What a waste of time, energy and work! It is therefore a return to square one for this bill, on which there is much to say both on the substance and on the form. It will of course end up passing, but the method is really not glorious. That is why I shall vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u254	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u255	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it has now been several months since the national representation took up the question of the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to intercommunalities. With a little hindsight, the least we can say is that we still have a little way to go to achieve, together, a clear, pragmatic, shared and useful position for all. At the end of 2017, the bill introduced by the Republicans Group to make the transfer of water and sanitation skills to inter-municipality optional was rejected by your majority. Supported beyond sensitivities and political groups, in order to demand that the expectations of the territories, based on their realities, be listened to, the interest of this proposal was to have for it the strength of common sense. And it was the strength and common sense of the local elected representatives that convinced you, Madam Minister, to change your position somewhat and to go beyond the majority's opinion at first reading, to work again on the subject with representatives of the various political groups of the two chambers. I would like once again to thank you, Minister, for your listening and for the fulfilment of your commitments, which enabled the National Conference of the Territories to hold its working group on water and sanitation. After many exchanges, the law, adopted on 30 January last, finally gave the communes the opportunity to oppose the transfer of water and sanitation competence to the intercommunities until 2026, if a blocking minority is united. Following the model of the local inter-municipal planning plan, this minority is allowed to oppose the compulsory transfer, if it represents at least 25 per cent of the municipalities and 20 per cent of the population of the territory. We have collectively accepted this advance, which in our view represents a small step forward and a minimal compromise, even if the limitation in time does not seem to be appropriate to the reality of territories for which the problem will remain whole after 2026. After the failure of the Joint Joint Committee on April 18, which we regret, and the complete rewriting of the bill by our honourable senators, it is again before us for debate. You have stated, Madam rapporteur, that the disagreements between the Senate and the National Assembly are on this "fundamental" and "irreconcilable" text: I fear that it is rather the remoteness of the daily considerations of local, rural and mountain elected officials, which is irremediable. Having voted for the minimum acceptable compromise that you are proposing, allow me to greet, not without enthusiasm, the wisdom of the upper house and its ambitious text. Since we need to be consistent, I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate once again my position of principle and that of the New Left Group. While the proposed wording, as we have said, is a easing of the current law, it is possible, desirable and even necessary to go further, as I argued at first reading. The proposed solution is halfway between the compulsory transfer for all municipalities on 1 January 2020, enshrined in the NOTRE law, and the compromise proposed, in its motion, by the steering committee of the National Association of Mountain Elected Persons, whose only party is that of the mountain and which I currently chair, the steering committee that is in favour of maintaining the total optionality of these powers. The foundations of the blocking minority – 25% of the communes representing at least 20% of the population – continue to worry local elected officials: what happens when certain mountain communes, a minority in urban or plain intercommunality, are not enough to reach this minority? That is why, in our debates, I will propose that we return to the spirit of the measures proposed by the Senate and which I had already defended at first reading: first, the application of the blocking minority to the communities of agglomeration, and then the deletion of the date of January 1, 2026 for the reasons I mentioned earlier in my speech. I don't think you'd deny yourself if we could both agree to the deletion of this deadline. Finally, mountain municipalities should be given the opportunity to decide individually on the transfer or non-transfer of water and sanitation skills, or on one of the two. We will also mention the secability of competences. I would point out that the Observatory for Public Water and Sanitation Services estimated in a recent study that 50% of mountain municipalities have decided to manage the water service at communal level. This organisation of skills has a real relevance in the mountains, given the pronounced terrain, the climatic conditions and the distances to be traveled. You must trust the elected representatives and, with regard to these particular competences, leave them the choice of territorial organization: their decisions are not the result of chance. On the occasion of our previous debates earlier this year, in order to support my demonstration, I had taken the example of the community of communes of Matheysine, in the south of Isère: 19500 inhabitants, 44 communes, 700 square kilometres and a few hours of road to complete the magnificent landscapes that the middle mountain offers our country. I do not need to go back in detail to ask who in our assembly can imagine that these mountain villages can be treated in the same way as a metropolis or a peri-urban town. No one, as you know: distance issues, watersheds and climate do not allow for the same rules everywhere. It is not political politics, it is simply pragmatism, reason referring to a very concrete reality. I am pleased, Madam rapporteur, that you have tabled an amendment which rewrites Article 2 and which makes it possible to separate rainwater and runoff powers from those of sanitation. If it had been tabled earlier, perhaps he would have avoided a lengthy debate. What else is left of the right to adaptation recognized by the mountain law? Obviously, not much! Yet this right was created to meet a real need. These territories, too often forgotten, not to say denied, have the right to be defended and their specificities recognized and respected. This is what the legislator wanted in 1985 by recognizing the right to difference in Article 8 of the first mountain law, and this is what he confirmed and reinforced in 2016 by establishing the principle of adapting public policies to the specificities of these territories. What also remains of the call made at the recent Congress of Mayors by the President of the Republic to confer "an unprecedented capacity for differentiation, an ability to adapt rules to territories"? Obviously no more than a slogan, which is very regrettable. I stressed this last January, and I repeat it today with the same force: we are, elected from opposition, in disagreement with the policy pursued by the President of the Republic on many subjects. However, intellectual honesty must lead us to assume points of convergence, where they exist. This is the case with the right to innovation and differentiation in the territories. Once again, however, I fear that these municipalities will become more complex without a clear improvement in the quality of the service but with an additional cost for the user. Indeed, you have not demonstrated any improvement in management efficiency or cost control, on the contrary. In spite of its evolution, this text therefore only reduces the deadline until 2026, and thus the problems raised on several banks for months. That is why I have no doubt that our debates can lead to further progress. For us, it is not a matter of being right on our own, but of reaching the general interest as a demanding and ambitious balance point. To this end, accept the amendments that we will propose to you in a few moments. They are the result of experience on the ground and the rise of elected officials, to whom national representation has the duty to be attentive. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] The challenge of our work is not to win a sterile political battle between the Assembly and the Senate, between the old and the new worlds: it is to ensure that the disagreements between the legislator and the real country are neither "fundamental" nor "irreconcilable". Madam Minister, the rapporteur, I hope I can count on you to listen, both to the specificity of the French territories and to respect the commitment of the President of the Republic on the right to differentiation and experimentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u256	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-05-E1005.u257	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion, in further reading, of the draft law on the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes and communities of agglomeration. The meeting is adjourned.
