ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u1	Colleagues, I am delighted to meet you after this summer truce. The next item is the continuation of the discussion, on further reading, of the draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and on a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet (No. 1135, 1175). The remaining time for the discussion of this bill is six hours and eighteen minutes for the moving Republic Group, 109 of which are under discussion; six hours six minutes for the Republican Group, of which 430 amendments are under discussion; 48 minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of which 5 amendments are under discussion; two hours fifty-seven minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, of which 105 amendments are under discussion; two hours fifty-two minutes for the Socialist and Related Group, of which 51 amendments are under discussion; two hours and nineteen minutes for the La France group, 23 of which are under discussion; two hours twelve minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of which 30 amendments are under discussion and one hour for non-attached Members, of which 93 amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u2	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u3	Mr President, the Minister for Agriculture and Food, the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, opened a little more than a year ago, in July 2017, the food states raised great hopes for our citizens, but also for our farmers, who had been promised a rebalancing of trade relations and the prospect of improving their income. Today, in the aftermath of the Joint Joint Committee on 10 July, there is a great risk that these hopes will be disappointed and that the text you are submitting to us in a new reading will not achieve the objective of a better distribution of value between producers, processors and distributors. This bill, which also creates new constraints for farmers, does not simplify standards, nor does it reduce the burden on farmers. It is clearly no longer up to the ambitions expressed by the President of the Republic during his speech in Rungis, nor to the expectations of our farmers. And this, even as our agriculture waits for answers to accompany it in the changes it is facing, to meet the challenges that lie ahead in a world where the population is growing and food needs are going to continue to increase. Let us remember that in our country, the number of farmers continues to decline, that the number of farms has been halved since the 1980s and that the share in value of our agriculture in Europe is decreasing. Although the phenomenon of regrouping and expanding farms is increasing, the situation of farmers is not improving and the number of farm failures is unfortunately increasing. The profitability of our farms is penalized by the increase in constraints and standards and by the increase in charges, in line with the recent rise in fuel prices. And yet, Minister, your project does not say anything about these essential questions: it does not provide for any relief of burdens, administrative simplification, reduction of standards or improvement of the competitiveness of farms. Nor does your text foresee anything to encourage the installation and transmission of agricultural holdings, which are nevertheless crucial issues if we are to ensure the sustainability of our agricultural model and the planning of our territory. At first reading, the deputies, then the senators, had helped to improve the text presented by the Government. We bitterly regret that the Joint Joint Committee came back in a completely new way on provisions which had yet been voted in accordance with the National Assembly and the Senate, in particular on the issue of price construction – that is where it hurts! Beyond the fact that it attests to the lack of consideration given to parliamentary work, the failure of the CMP can be a serious consequence, since it is not clear today how the law could enter into force at the beginning of October, before the start of the next trade negotiations, as promised by the President of the Republic. Above all, it is even less clear, in the present state of affairs, how this text would rebalance the balance of power between producers and buyers. We regret that the Committee on Economic Affairs of our House, which met on 17 and 18 July, decided, at your request, to unblock the price-setting mechanisms, which must be based on public and indisputable indicators, as Members of our group, as well as other groups, proposed at first reading. Mr rapporteur, I regret to say that the wording of paragraph 15 of Article 1 as you propose to us remains ambiguous and puts the risk that the most powerful actors in the sectors will continue to impose their laws. The text should clearly state that it is for professional organisations to develop and disseminate indicators. It must also provide that, in the absence of agreement, it will be up to the Monitoring Centre for Margins and Prices to replace it. Without this possibility, if negotiations fail, everything will be as if there had never been a law. Let us understand each other well: it is not a question of asking the state to design indicators, let alone to set prices. However, in order to ensure that trade negotiations are built on clear references to the costs of agricultural production, it is necessary to increase, where necessary, the pressure on the players in the sector through public intervention. In the same spirit, it is important that these indicators be published and made public if they are to be effective. A number of other amendments to Article 1e r appear to us to call into question the effectiveness of the scheme. We therefore hope that the wording adopted at first reading, aimed at prohibiting a buyer from negotiating directly with a producer, will be reinstated once he has refused the proposal for a framework agreement of a producer organisation. It is also necessary to strengthen the role of the Ombudsman for Agricultural Trade Relations by allowing him to refer the case to the judge in interim proceedings, in the event of the failure of mediation on contractual relations. These are all proposals that we had already made at first reading. I now turn to the second part of this bill. You clearly have the will to meet societal expectations for food quality, changes in agricultural practices, or animal welfare. While a number of these concerns were shared during the debate at first reading, it is regrettable that a number of interventions, but also some of the measures proposed, have had the effect of discrediting our agriculture, livestock farming, production methods or processing tools and sometimes, through them, men and women who deserve greater recognition for their efforts and sense of responsibility. Some interventions have been able to reflect a lack of knowledge of the realities and difficulties facing our farmers – but I will not allow myself to do this to you, Mr rapporteur, or even to you, Mr Minister. Above all, they have revealed a lack of confidence in our farmers and our sectors, which are nevertheless engaged in a process of progress, and which are fully aware that they have no other choice, or rather that it is their interest, to adapt to the expectations of consumers and society. This text creates new constraints for our farmers, and I regret that. Indeed, by indiscriminately imposing new constraints on French agriculture, it is at risk of making it less competitive than that of other European countries and, above all, of third countries. As a result, there is a risk of encouraging the importation of products, although more competitive, but also less qualitative, since they are not subject to the same production standards. In this sense, we consider it essential to maintain Article 11 of the draft law, which prohibits the sale in France of products which do not meet the same standards as those imposed on our farmers. The aim is to explicitly target imports. I am of course thinking of the international agreements, and in particular the agreement with Mercosur, which would lead us to accept the importation of low-priced beef from farms that can use food, hormones or growth activators banned in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u5	In addition, these countries are unable to demonstrate the reliability of their traceability system and the health certification of their products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u6	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u7	In the same way, if it has a good feeling, as it aims to achieve an objective that can only be shared, the obligation for collective restoration to obtain organic, local or official quality products could be counterproductive if the stated objective is not reasonable and realistic. This obligation could, paradoxically, favour the importation of products that our local sectors would not be able to supply. This is particularly true for organic products, and that is why we propose that the thresholds for these products can be adapted to take account of the realities of local production. On the other hand, although I repeat that this objective is commendable, there are no plans to accompany the upsurge in meal quality and to compensate for the additional costs to be borne by the communities responsible for collective restoration or, failing that, the families – which would have been inappropriate in the current context. Finally, the reference in article 11, paragraph 3, to the "life-cycle" costs of products could also be counterproductive, for example, by penalizing meat from long and extensive production cycles, which are the most virtuous, to the benefit of imported meat, from more intensive industrial systems. In summary, Minister, this bill, as we are being proposed for re-reading, is not satisfactory and does not go far enough so that we can hope to achieve the stated and shared goal of better allocating margins and, above all, improving farmers' incomes. If the Assembly were to adopt it as it stands, it would inevitably and legitimately give rise to the disappointment of the agricultural world, which was able to feed the hope that the situation would evolve in the right direction. We would then take the risk of giving birth to a text that is useless, without any direct impact on the economy of our farms, simply adding additional constraints and costs that our farmers can no longer understand or accept if they do not translate into income compensation. Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, I regret to say that disappointment prevails. I invite you to return to the spirit that prevailed during the first examination in session. Throughout the process of drawing up this text, the Republicans, along with others, have endeavoured to accompany you to ensure that this project meets the ambition expressed at the end of the General Food States. On the occasion of the first reading, we put forward constructive proposals of common sense, which made it possible to amend this text until you decided, for a reason which we do not have in the Joint Joint Committee, to remove this work from our hands and to empty the text of its substance. We cannot accept this bill moving away from its original ambition and condemning farmers to remain the adjustment variable in trade negotiations. That is why we are asking for his referral back to committee by assuring you, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, that we are ready to resume discussions with you, in the same constructive spirit as at first reading, in order to make it more meaningful. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Otherwise, trade relations will remain unbalanced and the purchasing centres that have chosen to regroup while we are debating will continue to make the law, while the one that should prevail will not be enough to protect the interests of our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u9	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u10	The attitude of the Government and the majority has not changed: to work towards a balanced text between Title I and Title II to take account, in a coherent manner, of both the economic and environmental imperatives. You have raised a number of issues and I have already given some answers to the motion to reject them beforehand. With regard to international agreements, let us recall that France has defended very firm positions because we have always maintained that agriculture would not be the adjustment variable of these trade agreements. We have always vigorously defended the health and environmental quality of production. In no way can we accept a deterioration of this quality within our borders. Above all, let us remember that the Mercosur, since the time we have been talking about it, is still not signed! If it is not in the coming weeks, I think some time will pass before the negotiations resume.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u11	That's a good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u12	The European elections will soon take place, the composition of the Commission will be changed and all negotiations will have to be resumed. However, we remain very offensive in defending our interests, especially those of our farmers. You mentioned the balance of trade relations. The framework that prevailed yesterday favoured price wars, the destruction of value and the crushing of the smallest, especially among farmers. Tomorrow, the law will provide the tools to better regulate trade relations that will be more balanced. It will also be up to consumers to be responsible and to sanction, through the choice of their products, those who will not play the game, whether it is food quality or the structuring of the supply. This second reading should enable us to build a path between the economic reality of our agriculture and the necessary transition to more sustainable and environmentally friendly models. Farmers have been doing considerable work in this direction for years. We must continue to accompany their transition without putting anyone at the foot of the wall. That is why we have made the bet of supporting all the sectors, from upstream to downstream, so that consensus can emerge and each of the sectors can evolve in a coherent way in the direction expected by consumers. I hope that this motion for referral back to committee will be rejected so that we enter the debate without further delay in order to meet the expectations of consumers and farmers, in particular at the opening of trade negotiations in early November.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u13	I have before me several requests for explanations of vote. Mr Nicolas Turquois has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u14	Mr Descoeur, I listened carefully to your arguments, some of which overlapped with those of your colleague Jérôme Nury. We have discussed this at length in committee. Let us now work to improve this text through our amendments, while welcoming the progress made in this text, which will enable farmers and, more generally, all our fellow citizens, to return to a certain vision of agriculture. We will not vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u15	Mr Thierry Benoit, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u16	Our group will not vote on this motion to refer any more than it voted on the motion to reject it beforehand. Our farmers have been waiting for a year. The Government has had time to understand the obstacles to rebalancing trade relations. Vincent Descoeur has presented us with convincing arguments, which I share in part, but, for having visited the field frequently, in our campaigns, I know that there is an urgent need to act, especially in favour of farmers. Mr Minister, we hope that the amendments tabled by the various groups will lead to a compromise acceptable to farmers, particularly with regard to agricultural income.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u17	The next speaker is Mr Dominique Potier, for the Socialist and related Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u18	Like Guillaume Garot, I am pleased to find all those passionate about agriculture, but also the issues that our society is facing and that we are trying to address in this EGalim bill. The rapporteur Jean-Baptiste Moreau spoke this afternoon of his injury following accusations of submission to lobbies. I repeat to him, on behalf of the New Left Group, that we do not eat of this bread and that we do not have the habit of making free accusations. Unfounded, they are not in the honor of our assembly. Our society suffers enough dysfunctions not to add to it. When we deal with honest men, we have to say so. [[Applause on all benches]] We do not share the political views of the Minister and the rapporteur. We accept it and sometimes express it in a radical way, but we refuse those low blows that would be unworthy. Nor did we succumb to the demagogic temptation to ask for the impossible as we come out of the exercise of power. Indeed, we have not reformed the law on the modernisation of the economy when we were in charge, we have not taken measures that would have been incompatible with European regulations. Nevertheless, our disappointment remains profound because, between the hope raised by the general states of food and the final landing, we have a collective responsibility and you have a particular responsibility. The descent from the stairs was brutal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u19	The fall of the slide!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u20	Our parliamentary debate, by locking itself in picocholine quarrels, prevented the discussions on the substance of the rural world from taking place. This text is in step with the demands we had made following the general states of food: justice for producers, a quality food for all. We had room for manoeuvre, compatible with European law, the LME, but we have not been able to exploit them. However, time was given to the parliamentary debate, which was preceded by a major national debate. Democratic expression has been respected. We will not support this proposal for referral back to committee, especially since we trust you, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, in accepting our amendments. This is your last chance to pull the text up. Yes, we will have public indicators in trade negotiations and protective measures for the most vulnerable audiences against those who produce junk food that is dangerous to health. Yes, we will have reciprocal import/export contracts to guarantee the quality of the products. Finally, we hope that concrete steps will be taken to protect the victims of plant protection products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u21	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u22	Mr Descoeur's arguments have convinced us and we will vote on this motion for referral back to committee for the same reasons as this afternoon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u23	Almost Gaullist alliance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u24	The subject of indicators is, today, far from being settled. We have the feeling that the iron pot is fighting against the pot of earth and that you remain very naive in the face of the future. We have to fight to get those lucrative prizes that everyone is talking about. We have not mentioned this, but the review of the CAP will play a decisive role in the whole process. It is a matter of concern to us, as is international agreements. The signing of CETA, for Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, disrupted farmers who perceived two speeches. On the one hand, they were handed their hands behind their backs, promising them remunerative prices. On the other hand, the decisions taken were contrary to the commitments. Another concern is the issue of standards. Standards are necessary but farmers must be treated in the same way as those who export products not subject to the same requirements to us. A number of issues deserve further discussion in committee, so we will vote on this motion for referral.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u25	On the vote on this motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor for the La République Group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u26	We will vote against this motion to refer to committee, first of all because this bill is the result of collective work. A year ago, the general statements of food began, which resulted in four months of consultations and 17,000 contributions. In addition, 150 hours of debate have already taken place in the House and more than 7,000 amendments have been discussed. Of course, colleagues, particularly on some benches, like to table the same amendment several times: 7,000 amendments do not make 7,000 ideas, but we have adopted 662. The text was therefore enriched in a quality debate. We must all be aware of the fact that we have the opportunity to have a final reading of the text at the beginning of October: but it is at this date that we must definitely adopt the tools that this text offers to the farmers, who are waiting for them, in order to regain control of the construction of the price and the remuneration of their productions during the next period of commercial negotiations. That is why we should not refer the bill back to committee, otherwise we should be able to cause more hours of debate, especially since this new reading allows us to discuss it again. On the other hand, we agree with you, Mr Descoeur, on one point: you have stated that, on this text, disappointment prevails. We too were disappointed because, so far, we had worked in a trans-partisan way,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u27	Until the CMP, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u28	...at the service of farmers. Now you're showing the opposite. We will therefore vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u29	Mr Sebastien Leclerc, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u30	We listened to Vincent Descoeur, who, with his experience, brought the voice of the rural world to this text, which must protect the interests of farmers, in particular – as you pointed out – by setting selling prices higher than production costs. The Republicans defended proposals of common sense at first reading, in vain, alas, since the CMP dubbed the hopes of the entire agricultural world. This bill, which is moving away from the original ambition, will undoubtedly give rise to a lot of disappointment, particularly about the unsatisfactory pricing process – we want to come back to the subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why, while we assure you of our willingness to participate in an ever more constructive work, we call for the text to be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u31	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u32	In line with our votes both at first reading and on the motion to reject the text on a new reading, we will vote on the motion to refer the text back to committee, in the hope that, with this vote winning, we can address issues that are not dealt with in the text when they are essential to us – I will have the opportunity to return to them during the general discussion. With regard to the question of prices, the text is ideologically based on a spontaneous and natural formation of prices by the market, which does not have the beginning of the beginning of a verification in the modern financial economy. The text, moreover, is far from up to date on the issue of animal suffering. Moreover, the absence of these key issues, namely land tenure and the role of cooperative action, is also crucial to us. In addition, the text should have taken into account the participation of agriculture and farmers in the new green revolution which must be launched and which must concern not only products, which will have to be different, but also the reconstruction of nature, which has been destroyed by previous agricultural practices. Finally, the text is not up to date on international agreements. Minister, you said that we would never sign the free trade agreement with Mercosur if we did not sign it in the next few days. I suspect you – it is your role – have made this statement so that it can be heard in the negotiations, with a view to stimulating it. For my part, I hope that it will, on the contrary, have a deterrent effect. With all those who do not believe in the interest of such a treaty with Mercosur, I believe that it is precisely free trade that will save us from it. In the meantime, since the Argentine economy, on which the Government had not failed to give up its avalanche of compliments, had collapsed as a result of free trade practices, Argentina's President, Mr. Macri, had introduced export taxes, particularly on meat and soybeans. So you won't be able to sign the agreement. Oh, my God! We are saved by the disasters of liberalism! It is therefore time to come back to committee to look more closely at all the questions posed by the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u33	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u34	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 85 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 31 Against 54
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u35	In the general debate, Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u36	Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture, as we know, is a major issue for our country, which is an important agricultural power in the European Union, with 27 million hectares of agricultural area, or almost half the area of the territory. Agriculture is at the heart of French identity. This bill, which we are debating again this week, is therefore an important piece of legislation for our country and our economy, especially as it reflects a genuine desire for transition: to reverse the logic of price construction in order to better pay farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the MODEM and related groups has not changed: we hope that, in the course of our discussions, an incentive and truly efficient law will be adopted, not a punitive and inapplicable law. It is important to take farmers with us, without throwing reproach on their practices, which have their history and their reasons. Since the beginning of the discussions on this bill, we have been defending time for adaptation and the strengthening of the role of interprofessionals. The search for economic and environmental performance must be part of a sector approach. We want to avoid, at all costs, the easy pitfall of overtransposition. We prefer to simplify standards in order to reduce the constraints on our producers. Our requests are consistent with important animal and environmental protection requirements. As parliamentarians, we have a duty to renew the highly weakened link between modernised and competitive agriculture and environmentally friendly agriculture. That is one of the aims of the text. I therefore welcome all the progress made under the leadership of the rapporteur, Jean-Baptiste Moreau, and the minister. I am thinking in particular of taking into account the indicators of production costs and not just the indicators of evolution of costs, of securing the contract in cascading in accordance with the general statements of food, or of strengthening the role of the mediator and the Observatory for the formation of prices and margins. However, this law, ladies and gentlemen, will be a success only if all the actors involved find themselves there. For the well-being of our farmers and the vitality of our agriculture, it is important to confirm the progress made in May and to respect the balances established during the GAS. I am thinking in particular of two provisions which the MODEM Group, by the voice of Richard Ramos, originally adopted at first reading. The first objective is to prevent buyers from disproportionately penalising delivery delays, the aim of which might be to circumvent Article 1 and to compensate for the prices fixed by contract. The second relates to the injunction of the president of the commercial court against recalcitrant companies to deposit their accounts. While parliamentary work has allowed for a real enrichment and deepening of the text, it is necessary to maintain these advances, especially since this bill must also be part of a comprehensive support for our agriculture, in order to strengthen the profession and make it more competitive. Without economically viable agriculture, there will be no short circuits, no diversified productions, nor this quality of landscape that our fellow citizens are plebiscite. That is why I take this rostrum, Minister, to draw your attention to the announced disappearance of TO-DE – casual job seekers – a scheme that provides for exemptions from employer social contributions for employers of seasonal workers, which is irreplaceable during harvest periods. Seasonal work is first and foremost a formidable link between agriculture and society. How many of us here, then students, picked apples, melons or strawberries, castrated corn, picked Paimpol coconuts, harvested or participated in I don't know what agricultural work? In terms of work, it is a first foot to the stirrup, which one remembers his whole life. It is also an essential income supplement for students and, often, for many households, especially for women in areas where finding work is not always easy. The removal of this exemption threatens the vitality of many farms, as the cost of labour is decisive in these productions. You mentioned today, Minister, in questions to the Government, a loss of EUR 60 million for the French farm between the abolition of the TO-DE scheme and the transformation of the CICE into a reduction of permanent burdens. This loss, I would like to point out, is not for the French farm but for the few thousand farms that hire seasonal workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u38	The impact will be considerable. These operations are in line with your bill, minister, because of the proximity, diversity and quality of what they bring. While we understand and share the Government's desire for economics – it is urgent to break out of the spiral of a continuous increase in budgetary spending – we believe, however, that this decline in public spending must be accompanied by a thorough reform of our agriculture, through a simplification of standards and a rebalancing of power relations, not by farmers. I will conclude by recalling the very particular context in which we are: a major drought that will still affect French agriculture strongly, which gives me the opportunity to point out the aberration of certain administrative decisions. A European regulation obliges our farmers, for ecological reasons, not to treat 5% of their area. These surfaces, called EIS for areas of ecological interest, were to be sown by 31 July with an obligation to lift. However, due to these extreme climatic conditions, seedlings have no chance of rising in too hard and dry soils. The European Commission has, of course, proposed a relaxation of this regulation: it does, however, leave aside, because it maintains, depending on the date, either the obligation to sow or the obligation to lift, despite the fact that the weather conditions have not changed. In addition, it is accompanied by a request for a derogation by the farmer from the administration, while the drought situation is general in the territory. We will not convince our farmers of such measures, which are of no use to the environment, to their cash flow or even to our administrative departments, which must carry out absolutely unnecessary checks. We cannot be demanding on the transformation of our agriculture into a virtuous model, free of plant protection products, without providing the necessary support and common sense measures that the agricultural world expects. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I know you, Minister, are very sensitive to these questions, and know your constant commitment to valuing this major activity for our economy, an activity that is very dear to me as a farmer. That is why you can count on our support and constructive engagement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u39	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u40	My dear Minister, like my fellow Members, I am pleased to see you again. For three days, we've been seeing each other almost daily, since you spent time in Breton agriculture, first on Sunday and then on Tuesday at the European Trade Show for Animal Production – SPACE – Rennes. The first issue I want to address, Minister, is you. I want to give you a minute of my speech. I have been watching you for the past year at the head of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I will tell you what I think it is useful to say.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u41	[[Smile]] You're gonna make him a love statement!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u42	I would like the French to hear it, as well as my fellow Members. I have no doubt of your goodwill. I was again listened to yesterday at SPACE: I see in you the desire to do well and I feel that you are listening to our farmers. In your constituency of the English Channel, you are confronted with problems similar to mine, in Fougères, in Ille-et-Vilaine. However, I have some questions, some doubts as to what results we could achieve collectively. Today we are starting a new reading of this bill, which should aim at rebalancing the commercial relations between all the players in the distribution chain, from the land to the consumer's base. This is because we have left a great deal of space and freedom for a number of actors in our country for the last 50 years – I am thinking of some industrialists, but especially distributors, who are in contact with the consumer. By allowing them to organise recurrent promotions, almost throughout the year, on foodstuffs, we have trivialised them and, as a result, the profession of farmer. My second message is for farmers. As I said at first reading, the farming profession, which consists of feeding women and men, is certainly the most beautiful profession in the world – or rather, with that of teaching and caring, one of the most beautiful professions in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u43	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u44	In France, we have the chance to have the best agriculture in the world – I am convinced of that. Our food is healthy, safe and sustainable. That is your wish, Minister. It is so healthy, safe and sustainable that, at first reading, we have scattered on topics that are not ancillary but to which we have given too much importance. Today we face the same risk, in a new reading, when we had created a rather positive and serene climate in the general states of food. In fact, Mr. Minister, earlier on in the gallery, you called for a return to the spirit of the general states of food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u45	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u46	Thus, you yourself see that, at the end of these two readings, French agriculture and French farmers are at risk of being weakened. What did we not hear in this House when we considered certain amendments that openly or insidiously question the products of our farmers or the methods they use? That's boring! In the last few hours, I have also listened attentively to Mr. Michel-Édouard Leclerc...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u47	Another light!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u48	...interviewed on the radio by Mr. Bourdin. He's probably a lot smarter than us, because we don't understand anything! You're a minister, we're deputies, and we're probably idiots too! Mr Leclerc explained that he would be better able to pay the added value; he even stated that he was currently reducing his margins.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u49	My eye!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u50	Mr Bourdin asked him on what products, but he was not able to answer. So he thinks we're idiots. Finally, it is not necessary to pass a law aimed at rebalancing trade relations since Mr Leclerc explains to us that he is lowering his margins and even missing a Minister of Consumer Affairs in our country – so I do not see why you are bothering, minister. Mr Leclerc's strategy is to consume, and he also emulates the majority group because some Members would like us to consume seven days a week, even on Sundays.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u51	Now we don't agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u52	In some time, in the name of consumption, we will have to open the shops at night: indeed, if we open the shops at night, I am convinced that some consumers will come to shop!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u53	Insomniacs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u54	What a good speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u55	I would like to say to Mr.Leclerc that, in this bill, we are dealing more with food and nutrition than with consumption. His vision of society is consumerist – that's probably why Valéry Giscard d'Estaing said a few days ago...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u56	He's not dead?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u57	...that it was unfortunate to observe that power resides more in money today than in 1974, when he was President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u58	Stop enriching the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u59	This subject must challenge our dear Emmanuel, the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u60	Macron's more right than Giscard!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u61	I have already told you, Minister, and I repeat in this rostrum: the President of the Republic should take the example of the Prime Minister and be more cautious. When he told Rungis in October 2017 that he was going to reverse the logic of price construction, he made French farmers believe that they could finally set prices based on their production costs. I repeat, if Mr Emmanuel Besnier has the opportunity to buy milk from New Zealand, for example, at EUR 150 or 200 per tonne, then he will not buy milk from Mayenne, Brittany, Ille-et-Vilaine or the English Channel at EUR 400 per tonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u62	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u63	Long live Normandy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u64	This will be complicated because we are part of a globalized, globalised market. This question brings me directly to the indicators and price construction that you want to change, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u65	It's the core of the reactor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u66	Sunday afternoon, in Javené, near Fougères, with you, Minister, I listened attentively to young Jérémy Decerle, President of the Young Farmers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u68	Long live our young farmers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u69	...which alerted us to the need to put in place, at all costs, indicators that are not contested by anyone. These indicators can be set up by interprofessionals, by actors in the sector – why not? –, but Mr. Decerle asked above all that the device be secured, that there be an effective gendarme on the roads. The Prime Minister broke our feet, if I may say so, with the 80 kilometres-hours on the roads – didn't he, Mr Descoeur?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u70	We remember that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u71	We have been hampered in our mobility!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u72	They put gendarmes and radars at every corner of the street, or rather at every corner of the departmental roads. However, on this issue of indicators and production costs, the Observatory for the Formation of Food Prices and Margins needs to be able to keep up, because we know that the trade relations, particularly the discussions with large retailers, are very harsh. It is necessary to moralize commercial relations because the purchasing centres, which bring together the brands of the big distribution, have practices that are no longer acceptable. Trade relations are not worthy of the human relations we should have in 2018 – you know better than I do, minister. On this issue, we must intervene very strongly in order to regulate and control large-scale distribution and purchasing plants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u73	Don't give them a blank check!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u74	I'm convinced of that. I also want to address two topics that are of great interest to us, to the IDU Group, Action and Independents: the environment and animal welfare. Both of these issues came to light in our House, in the Chamber and in committee when we considered the bill at first reading. As far as plant protection products are concerned, I am a little marri. Only two years ago, no one imagined that France would prohibit the use of these products in three years' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u75	Maybe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u76	When we think that the European Union was planning to renew the authorisation for ten years... At the request of the French Government, the duration of the renewal was reduced to five years, and the President of the Republic overbidd to finally reach three years. On this subject, the UDI-Agir group has followed the Government, and I do not regret it. However, certain realities must be taken into account. As I was telling you, we were on Sunday in Javené, where the Young Farmers organized Jim's Lands. When we walked around this 130-hectare site to meet the farmers and the companies who were exhibiting it, I pointed out to Mr. Prefect that it was impossible to tear the thistles and the rumex on such a surface by hand or by the binette.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u77	Indeed, by hand, it would take a crazy time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u78	We could practice mowing or wearing, but we have to work for three years to find alternative products that will make it easier for our farmers – you said it yourself, minister, and you have defined the method and the timetable. To be a farmer or a farmer, especially a dairy farmer, is seven days a week! The milking is twice a day, every day! This job is very hard and poorly paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u79	Prices must be guaranteed for producers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u80	That is why our farmers, especially young people, are at the end of the day. Those approaching retirement age will be three or four years old, but what about young people? When you have borrowed 400,000, 500,000 or 600,000 euros, you have no prospects for markets or prices, you feel despised or humiliated by certain players in the chain and, in addition, politicians make decisions that complicate your life, how can you keep up? I assure you that young people are very worried about their future. I'm going to link up with a subject discussed in Brittany right now – I'm looking at my colleague Gilles Lurton...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u81	And Marc Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u82	...as well as Marc Le Fur, whom I also see. I am referring to the Nitrates directive. For the past 20 years, Breton farmers have made real efforts to regain water quality. If the new Nitrates directive is not yet fully finalised, we know the guidelines, Minister: dairy farmers will be asked to count the number of days dairy cows go to pasture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u83	It's a piece of land!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u84	That's the principle of the grazing book! This is not just about Brittany!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u85	It is therefore additional work, an administrative task that will be added to the work that farmers are already doing today. In our region of Brittany, in 2018, it is claimed that this count provided for by the new Nitrates directive will be requested for teaching purposes. In 2020, it will be mandatory, and in 2022, non-compliance will be punished. I would like to draw your attention to this subject, Minister: the political authority that you embody must put a stop to these attempts, these drifts and this complexity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u87	Minister, you have to be careful about that. Our colleague Nicolas Turquois addressed an important topical issue, that of casual workers and job seekers. As we are subject to the scheduled legislative time procedure, I would like to refer to this subject in the rostrum because it is not certain that it is during the discussion of the amendments. This duty-free scheme was implemented at the time when Bruno Le Maire was Minister of Agriculture,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u88	On the proposal of Bernard Reynès!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u89	...on the proposal of the Member of Parliament Bernard Reynès, member of the Group of the Republicans, because French farmers and producers were faced with a competitive deficit compared to the peripheral countries, particularly Spain. Minister, this competitiveness deficit still exists today. The riding in which I live includes the polders of Mont-Saint-Michel, not far from the land of Saint-Malo. In Saint-Georges-de-Gréhaigne, for example, salad producers are subject to the harsh competition of Spanish producers, who house their labour, which can be picked up at thank you, in cabanons, as we add regulatory requirements and charges. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LR group]] On this subject, minister, you will also have work to do before the review of the finance bill! I urge you, dear Stéphane Travert, not to let Bruno Le Maire act alone in the context of the finance bill, because your colleague will see only one thing: his budget and his finances. I'm afraid he doesn't care where he is, the working conditions of our farmers and their incomes! [[Approvals and exclamations on several benches in the LR group]] [[Same movements]] If you, the Minister of Agriculture, don't punch on the table about it, we're dead. Again, this applies not only to dairy farmers, but to all agricultural occupations that employ labour, whether they are producers of tomatoes, carrots, cauliflowers or onions. So it's important. Of course, this is also true of wine-growers. I would also like to address an area that your predecessor had supported and launched: agroecology, and to make the link with what you yourself are going to support. At first reading, much more was said about what was on the base than about farmers' income. While I really think that your will and your primary concern are going towards the future of French agriculture and the income of our farmers, the debates in the Chamber have focused on the content of the plate, because people are afraid of being sick, fear that our French farmers will sell to them products of medium quality, but less concerned about American feed lots that provide us with meat containing endocrine disruptors, hormones, flours and other products, such as animal flours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u90	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u91	The consumer must be enlightened on this point and he must be told that if he had only beef, like that raised by our colleague Jean-Baptiste Moreau in his charming campaign in La Creuse, he could eat more than one coast a week. A person working on the national nutrition health program explained a few days ago on France info that it was necessary to eat 400 grams of meat in the week, equivalent to a rib, then only beans. We must not listen to it, because the French are sick: if you make physical efforts, like Jean-Baptiste Moreau on his farm, you must eat proteins of animal origin. Minister, I agree with the nutrition guidelines. I supported Stéphane Le Foll's agroecology. We have incorporated the notion of high environmental value into the text – as I say by looking at Guillaume Garot. I would now like us to make a breakthrough with the notion of "high nutritional value" and I would add in my triptych the concept of "high social value": this would pay our farmers and ensure healthy commercial relations between all the links in the chain. I could have said a word from producer organisations and associations of producer organisations – AOP. In fact, ten years ago, when we reached the end of the contract, Bruno Le Maire had indicated that after the contracts would come from producer organisations and that it would be great, because it would allow us to discuss equals. Ten years later, we're at a dead end. So, Minister, you will have to look at the real role you want to play in producer organizations and producer organizations. These are the subjects I wanted to address. There would be many more, but I don't want to abuse time, because I've been trying to make you aware of the agricultural problem for 18 minutes. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups]] I will conclude, Mr Minister, by saying – to you and to all the Members present in this House – that we must have, in this new reading, a single compass: the farmers of France and the agricultural income.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u92	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u93	Here, a few weeks ago, I was expressing the position of the Socialist Members on the text that was presented to us at the end of the first reading and I was saying that we were disappointed, because we were far from the hope that the general states of food had given rise to and the ambition that the President of the Republic had put forward in a landmark speech in Rungis last October. The text we are discussing this evening is not up to these expectations, whether it is to improve farmers' incomes or to meet the expectations of the French – citizens, consumers – for their food. I also said that our disappointment was about the method. Indeed, many of us had heard in the months leading up to the 2017 presidential election that the New World, the new majority and the new government would work with everyone and listen to the good ideas, wherever they come from – from the right, but also from the left. Lost punishment. We have done so: while the text discussed at first reading was the subject of 110 amendments tabled by the group then called New Left, that is, by the Socialists, only seven were accepted. We were far away, too, from campaign promises. At the end of the day, many of us were waiting for a law of ambition to transform our agricultural model and make it fairer for producers, healthier for consumers and more sustainable for our planet, and we finally find ourselves with an addition of provisions, some of which are undoubtedly useful – we must hope, because it is the general interest – but which does not enshrine a strong vision for our agricultural and agri-food policy. As we begin the discussion of this bill in a new reading, with a taste of incompleteness, we Socialist Members will introduce strong amendments that express a vision of the future for both our agriculture and our food. Let's take things in order. As far as farmers' incomes are concerned, we believe that public authorities must assume their role. We cannot refer everything to the discussion between economic actors, and this is all the less so since, as was said before me, this relationship has shown its limits. We all have in mind the statements made, with our hands on the heart, by the actors who signed last November a charter of commitment to improve trade relations. The charter was barely signed and the negotiations in boxing took place in February: although the charter was signed, it did not break the door of these commercial negotiating boxes. Barely signed, already forgotten: this, unfortunately, is the reality. It is therefore not only the contractual relations between the players in the sector, because this is not enough to ensure better income for producers and better sharing, a better balance of added value between the various players. Thus, allowing public authorities even to give opinions on production cost indicators or to intervene in the event of blockages does not mean opposing private initiative to public authorities but, on the contrary, articulating each other to ensure, in the end, true economic justice for producers. As far as food is concerned, I think we all have in mind this evening a study published yesterday on the initiative of a large national association to help the poorest. This study tells us that one in five French people cannot afford to eat healthy food three times a day and that 27% of French people cannot afford to buy fruit and vegetables every day. That is the reality of our country, the social reality, the daily life of so many French people. We know well, and this has been widely said during the debate at first reading, that food is the mirror of inequalities. It is an issue of social justice and we have a responsibility to act to constantly improve the quality of food supply, the quality of our food, and not only for those who can afford it, but because it is a question of general interest, social justice and the reduction of inequalities, for all consumers, citizens and French people. Members of the Socialist and Related Group will make several proposals to address this challenge. In particular, in order to meet the expectations of consumers, we wish to continuously improve the information due to them and which is their strictest right. We want this text to really be an opportunity to move forward on a major issue: food education. We need to give it real content and put everyone in charge. Here again, the State must respond now and, in particular, the Ministry of National Education must be a true actor, a true partner in a major food policy. And since this is the right to information, we must also mention environmental signage, which is also a right of consumers and citizens. This idea is not new either, because it goes back to Grenelle 2. We want to make progress on the environmental display of products, so that everyone can benefit from good information and act as a responsible consumer. Finally, let us ask ourselves a question: will this text, which concerns our country – France, the national space – really be effective for producers and consumers without a European extension? As you all know, the solution will not be national, neither in terms of producers' income, nor in terms of consumer information, nor in terms of rules on competition between producers within the European Union: there will be no solution to these problems without regulating markets and productions. You have to say it and say it again. To take only the example of milk, we can of course discuss here all the mechanisms of value distribution and trade negotiation, but we know that the price of milk depends on the milk market, which is not only national, but at the European and, of course, global minimum: as long as we do not have a clear vision here of what we want to defend at European level to control production and volumes and to regulate markets, we will achieve nothing. This dimension is absent from the text, but we must have a clear vision of what France's position is for the next common agricultural policy. As far as the latter is concerned, we must be innovative and chart prospects that concern not only the agricultural world, but the whole of our country and society. Here, in July, we unanimously adopted a resolution on sustainable agriculture in the European Union. Everyone could find what he had brought there. That's very good, but it's just as important for us to involve our country's vital forces – producers, consumers, processors, associations, citizens and communities – to help the government set directions that will then be shared. The Government will be stronger in the European negotiations if French society as a whole is a point of support for it. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Socialist Group, that we set up a mechanism for consultation and consultation, beyond what we are, which affects the depths of French society, the depths of our country, to say what we want for the next common agricultural policy. As we know, this is the key to meeting the challenges we are debating this evening, whether it is the income of producers or the response to consumer expectations. I know I've been too long, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u94	[[Smile]] Oh! It's worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u95	... but I tell you, minister: it is still time to correct the text you are presenting to us, it is still time to give it a breath, to defend a vision and to draw a clear course for an agriculture that pays its farmers, which takes its part in the fight against global warming and the preservation of our biodiversity, it is still time to set the course untiringly towards a healthy and accessible diet for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u96	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u97	[[Smile]] Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Garot will have the opportunity to see that there is worse in terms of length than the excellent summary of his point of view he has made at the moment. In passing, I would point out that Mr Ruffin should have gone up to the rostrum before me, but it happens that the committee in which he sits and where he defends his amendments is meeting at this very moment...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u98	About the PACTE bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u99	...so that I will express myself first...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u100	We're glad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u101	– I don't know what he's doing, but I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u102	We'll settle for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u103	I'm a city man, you know that. However, you do not know that I was, a long time ago, the one who held the agricultural section of the newspaper Les Presses, in the Jura, and that from this time came to me an interest in agriculture that I did not suspect at the beginning since my interests were the poetry of the sixteenth century and the philosophy of the Quattrocento.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u104	[[Smile]] We'll look for the articles!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u105	But I was able to see the incredible changes that were taking place in this field of human activity. Our country has experienced upheavals in its agriculture. I think it is important to put into perspective what we are talking about in order to understand the moment we are living in. Our debate is raised if we take it that way. Otherwise, it will be the usual rix between the majority and the opposition – which is moderately interesting –, the technical discussions then losing some substance themselves. France was totally upset by the entry of the industrial era into agriculture. Nevertheless, it must be remembered that at the beginning of the twentieth century, 42 per cent of the population was rural, agricultural, a peasant population.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u106	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u107	When urban populations took off, leading to the general, and even planetary, change in the human way of life – because it is an anthropological fact – we have moved to a percentage of 22%, to become today 1.8% of farmers in the total working population, a fall of 95%! It is a complete revolution of the human condition and of the relationships between the different categories that contribute to the life of the species – let us remember that without farmers, no one would live since there would be nothing to eat. Something happened in the technique, in the organization of society, that helped relieve – let's say so – the human community on this part of the work, and all these people could go and do something else – that they didn't necessarily want to do, by the way. In this regard, no one can forget the magnificent song by Jean Ferrat, La Montagne. Many people left to regret, it was the great move of the population from the countryside to the cities, with all that it gave. We have at least that in memory. I think that many of us have experienced this mutation, either themselves or by their parents, and in any case have heard of it. It is therefore known that considerable changes can affect this area of activity. But this isn't the first time! For, basically, everything depends on agriculture. When agriculture appeared in the Neolithic period, from 8,000 years to 10,000 years B.C.E., it caused sedentarization and made possible breeding, leading to a leap in the human population and radical transformations from that time on. So it's been going on for a while. Well, today we are going through a period of the same kind, but for reasons that have nothing to do with either the production tool or the condition of the people who work in this field, but with the nature of the organization of society and its economic networks. Indeed, agriculture is initially a subsistence activity, then it has become an activity generating a power of exchange, and thus the value of use has been added to the value of exchange. But today the value of trade is entirely above production, and of course it is organised within the framework of the financial economy. It is extraordinary to realize that agricultural derivatives, i.e. which give rise to securitisation in one form or another in the financial sphere, have increased by 16% over the last few years, to the point that only 2% of transactions in agricultural products on an international scale give rise to effective delivery! All the rest is speculation, harvest sold before being sown, sold several times before being ploughed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u108	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u109	...then again, en route, in the ship itself where it is located before reaching its point of delivery. It is the domination of the exchange value, the domination of the financial sphere over agriculture where it was thought that it would never take root since, by definition, it is very dependent on the cycle of the seasons and therefore on the position of the planet around the sun, we did not see how this could change. Well, they found a way to do it! That is why, Minister, I have told you that believing that a contractual culture is able to pay prices is a view of the mind. I am telling you again, and without any aggression towards you or accusing you of anything more than the rapporteur. But it is enough to see the extreme volatility of agricultural prices: I am thinking of the two years that preceded the great crisis of 2008. And you will see that during the next crisis, which of course will take place, we will again have warning signs in the fluctuating prices of basic agricultural products. For example, corn prices rose by 178% and soybean prices by 169%, without anything to do with the seasons or even the quantities sown or harvested. It was pure financial speculation! Therefore, no contractual culture will ever overcome this price fluctuation due to reasons that have nothing to do with agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u110	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u111	You can invent anything you want, minister, you will not change that reality. You said in your opening speech that you are making a policy of realities... very well. But the reality is the financialization of agriculture. So it changes everything. One of the first changes concerns the rent that the capitalist could obtain at a good price on the peasant's back: it produced more and more with industrial agricultural methods – this is the whole history of the nineteenth century –; Then the large distributor arrived and lowered prices. The price of food and the share of food were thus reduced in the family budget. This reduction has reached 30 per cent or even 40 per cent over certain periods, but the share of food in the family budget has now been stable for 20 years. However, this differential has added purchasing power to workers in cities in good standing. It was a social calmer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u113	Because as purchasing power progressed even if the families did not earn more, they were happy with this situation, everyone was in it... except the farmers who, of course, had to work more to produce more at lower cost, and never found their way there. Thus, the industrial model and its corollary, the concentration of land, was able to set up in a staggering manner against a human mass absolutely lacking any means of resistance to a phenomenon that subjugated it. That's what happened in the past. Suppose our country breaks off the world market... I would point out that this is not the case since we are doing exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u115	The general line of slope of the European Union and the new CAP is indeed the renationalisation of agricultural policies, that is to say, the exaltation of competition between countries, always in the same way: to produce more than any way to produce anything, no matter when it sells – I do not say that the interested parties want it, but they are pushed – with the idea that the world market will wipe out all the surpluses. At a time when we are opening up to the world, it is said, at a time when we want to export a lot, everyone understands why world prices, even the financial aspect set aside, cannot be stable, since we find on the world market essentially the surpluses of each other, which kill local agriculture. And what are we doing here, too? The answer is, nothing. Let me not be told that when I say that agricultural markets are going to be more and more open, because it is the revolution of globalization, which we should call globalization, because the world has always been globalised, that is, financial globalization. The European Commission and the directives are perfectly clear on the objectives to be achieved, as the recent proposal for a European regulation shows, since it provides that aid to farmers now has only "no or little impact on trade". It is the theory of liberalism: markets must be pure and perfect, and free and undistorted competition. The aim is "to ensure that the Union can meet its obligations... as defined in the WTO Agreement". This is a confirmation of the alignment of agricultural prices with world prices, which can only fluctuate, being nothing but the result of speculation. As a result, almost total destruction of the agricultural model we know is assured. It's not a probability: it's a certainty! Moreover, it causes new phenomena of concentration in real agriculture, in production, which this time do not concern so much the land – they are already so much – as the way to produce, especially in livestock farming – you know better than I do, minister – while we still have some breeders who continue to behave like farmers. I once heard someone from the New World say with humour: "We have only archaic animals because we give them to eat grass while you, the Europeans, give them to eat animal flour. And it was a lot of fun for this Brazilian, but it doesn't amuse anyone anymore because their animals, too, don't now eat only grass but also all kinds of dirty things that we forbid ourselves to produce at home while their products come to compete with ours. And this competition is absurd, minister: you have not reassured me by saying that you are talking with Mercosur. What's the use of Argentine meat in France? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There may be special conditions, but why bring tons and tons? Wouldn't we be able to produce it? Of course I do. And then there is the question of soybeans, the only product that had not been integrated into the common market and the only one where Europe was immediately in deficit. As for all the others, in not thirty years, French and European agriculture had become self-sufficient. This is evidence that liberalism, free trade, is not compatible with a healthy agriculture, an agriculture that produces in sufficient quantity what people need. Our country's record is a demonstration. And now, of course, things are going to get worse. The new CAP, which dismantles the old one, opens the way to competitions that will lead to concentrations of the kind I denounce. And that's where we see the relationship between the fight against animal suffering and the struggle for a model of agriculture that leads to prices...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u116	Remunerators!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u117	...honorable for those who produce. But you accept that there is a so-called farm of 37,000 pigs – I think that the rapporteur, who is a farmer himself, would not call it a farm – when we are actually in a factory that produces under absolutely detestable conditions. This is the most revolting thing about the indifference that this shows towards a sensitive being that an animal is but also in view of the economic consequences that are terrifying... and to say nothing about the health consequences – people will soon have the opportunity to realize it. And it's the same with the farms of 10,000 cows and other abominations. Here again, we find the idea of markets that are dominated by something that has nothing to do with your appetite or with my desire to eat: financial prices and the circulation of products, which eventually transform certain essential agricultural products from livestock into by-products. Let us take the example of cows: on the farm of 10,000 cows, one of the most important products is not milk, but the methane that one manages, through the cycle of their food, to draw from these poor animals. It's still amazing, isn't it? Of course, from that point on, there is no more honest competition in agricultural markets. When you import sheep carcasses from New Zealand, meat is a by-product of wool, so there is no normal competition between producers. The whole theory of comparative advantage rests precisely, in classical theory, which dates from the 17th century – I would like to point out the archaism that is to be referred to a theory, that of free trade, which dates back to this time – on agricultural examples. Well, that doesn't work. It doesn't work anymore. Under these conditions, minister, saying that we go through the contractual culture to settle the issue of prices amounts to making perlimpinpin powder or distributing rabbit legs or horse irons to the peasants so that things go well. So the contractual culture is not such as to settle this question of prices: they must be fixed. Of grace, let us not use among ourselves caricatures that are ridiculous: fixed prices would bring us back, for example, to war communism...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u118	[[Smile]] Why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u119	... or would be the symbol of an administered economy. But finally, all this has been going on for decades, especially under the authority of De Gaulle: the prices – all the prices, including those of gums and pencils that your parents bought for their kids – were then administered! What, then, is the problem of fixing floor prices? If we don't fix them, who will? Downstream, as I just said, the financial market. What about upstream? You have planned to hold meetings between farmers and input producers. Do you think, for example, that the maize producers' union or some other crop is going to go meet Bayer and Monsanto to set the prices for the upstream? Peasants are therefore unable to weigh on the downstream as well as on the upstream, and one then relies on a culture of benevolence – because we know that, of course, the players in these markets are first, around the table, driven by such sentiment – to fix remunerative prices. Those who would be kind would also be fired, because when someone is hired to go to market prices, they are not asked to come back with benevolent results, but with low prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u120	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u121	It is therefore in the nature of things that the strongest is the one who does not have the means to resist: this is the economic logic. That's why we need floor prices. Do not understand it as a kind of dream that would have no relation to reality: on the contrary, it is because we have understood it and we have understood the way in which agricultural prices are formed that we are for such prices. If you don't, you won't have farmers, and therefore no more productions! To believe that this will not happen is to ignore what is happening. So I have just mentioned the reason why this floor price business is so central to us and so obvious: you can't do farming without farmers, even if I know that such a dream exists. There are some who think, as you know, minister, to be able to make agriculture without pollinators: it's amazing. Capitalism is truly extraordinary: it takes advantage of all its turpitudes. There are no more bees due to pesticides. Very well, people are therefore imagining how they will be able to develop drones or pollinators, which, of course, they will sell and who will pollinate instead of bugs that did it for free until then! This is also not acceptable as a future, but it will happen if farmers are not allowed to live, that is to say, to have an income. I come to the second point which will once again feed my argument on this question of floor prices, that is to say the second shock that agriculture is experiencing: climate change. And in this case, there is an urgent need, as many small signals testify. My winegrowers from Jura explained to me that they had already seen the Drosophile fly. Minister, I will not teach you the consequences of such an appearance in the vineyards. If you haven't seen them, you notice their passage to the smell of vinegar. Why? Because these filthy beasts pierce the skin of the grape, which then begins to ferment and turn vinegar – the art of making wine is indeed to prevent it from turning vinegar. So if you're wrong on one row, finished, everything you've picked up is good to throw away, because of the contamination. I take this example of the Drosophile to make you smile, but one could also mention, which is even less likely to smile – in this case, everything is serious – droughts. However, they cover processes other than the simple lack of water: in this case, if I am a farmer, where will I find them? I'm gonna suck like crazy in the water table! The fact that there is no water changes the composition of the soil already sipped with products that have caused it to decrease, under conditions you know, fertility. All the farmers who cultivate the land will tell you: they know and understand that the fertility of the soil was declining. You agree, rapporteur: I see that you agree with me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u122	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u123	This is therefore a challenge: with climate change, agriculture will not be the same in a few years' time. How are we going to face this reality? Not with ruined people, strangled in this way by debt that they can no longer cope with and faced with price fluctuations. There is therefore a relationship between the fight against the financialization of agriculture, the disconnection with world markets and the issue of ecologically and environmentally friendly treatment of agriculture. This will be the new function of farmers. A few years ago, people wrote all kinds of articles saying: yes, we need peasants, because they will take care of the rural landscape. It did not come to their mind that taking care of the rural landscape is good, but that it is not the essential vocation of the peasants who thought they had others. On the other hand, rebuilding the destroyed land will be one of the next missions of agriculture, so it would be time to do so. And the sooner we get there, the better, which also means that the level of qualification of farmers will also have to improve, so that they are able to carry out such a mission. Besides, if you want, colleagues on the right – I'm looking at you a little bit because, on this level, we have often had convergent visions – a peasant agriculture, you will necessarily need more labour. By the force of things. One of our colleagues said that we could not remove weeds with binoculars: I can hear it well and do not propose that we proceed in this way. There are other methods. In any case, it is a lie to say that peasant agriculture will be able to form with 1.8% of the population on the land: that is not true. To do this, it takes 300,000, 400,000, maybe 500,000 more peasants. But we will not find them by decimating them as the Roman army practiced by saying to one soldier in ten: "You will be a peasant." The people concerned must necessarily want to go and must be able to do so under new conditions. It is therefore necessary to increase the quotas that are recruited in agricultural lycées and to offer them a life that is one of them. No one wants to die of misery – financial, emotional and cultural, as is often the case – all alone, to the point that at the end of all these difficulties a peasant hangs every three days in this country, in an absolutely incredible indifference.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u124	Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u125	But this is a terrible social and human tragedy that I know moves you as much as I do. For this new agriculture to be able to cope with this green revolution to emerge, we must act, by means of strong gestures, in the ruptures that we are carrying out. I say the break-ups: break-up first – that's our line: there's enough, that's enough, that's no use – with the framework of general free trade. We French people – I'm not saying that everyone can do this – can do a relocation: we lived so far in a temperate zone, which allowed us to produce almost everything we wanted. We do not need this big global market. You'll tell me, we have surpluses. I understand that, but at last, there is not so much of it, and secondly, there will be a demand in the global market. We have never said that the French nation will return to the strict subsistence value of its agriculture: I have not said such a thing. However, the starting point must not be to believe that the solution and the agricultural miracle will come from the opening up of markets in the world. No. Moreover, the Mercosur contract is bad: it is from one end to the other and it will serve us nothing. I'm sorry, minister, but with regard to the JEFTA – Japan – EU Free Trade Agreement – which was signed under conditions that you all know, I'm giving you the big eyes. It is indeed your Government that has accepted that the same JEFTA, which was signed in particular by the European Council, does not come to debate before the Assemblies: it was decided on 17 July. So he didn't fall from the sky. As far as CETA is concerned, you told us: it's not us, it's Holland. All right, that's fine with me and I'll admit it, because it's true. On the other hand, JEFTA, no, it's not Holland, it's you! And in this case it is worse, because it is the starting point that is at issue: the CETA will, at least, even if it is only in part, pass before us. JEFTA, we won't even see it! It is said that this is a very good agreement for us, because we would have obtained from the Japanese to let our agricultural productions pass in exchange for being able to arrange our car business. These are of great interest to our German friends on all matters, in all directions, in all negotiations and in all respects, since they do not produce bananas but cars, which represent 20% of their economy. That is to say, the future will not be very mild for them, as the motor vehicle will soon be overtaken by the problems caused by the ecological crisis. International trade thus lowers the level of production. There must also be a break with regard to quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u126	Right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u127	I said once about this, and I was told that I was exaggerating – let's admit, I agree to divide by two the number in question, it is true that I am Marseilles and that I may have exaggerated – that the nutritional quality of an apple of the time when I was a kid was twice as high – I give you a price, because I said a hundred times – to what it is today. [[Smile]] So today it would be necessary to make your children and grandchildren eat the double – in fact, probably the triple or quadruple – so that they can be as handsome as I am at my age.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u128	It's not given to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u129	That's where we're at. Colleagues, I made this remark at this time to make you smile. You have to smile, too, or you can't stop crying. Mr Minister, on this issue of quality, the text must also be a break. These are the three subjects on which this text is not on the table: firstly, prices, because in this matter everything is based on an illusion, the contractual culture; Secondly, the quality of the products, also in view of the delay which we are taking on rebuilding, thirdly, of course, animal suffering. I will conclude on this last subject. Earlier, my colleague François Ruffin will say on this subject all the better, and more precisely, because he has written very good books on the subject. Animal suffering is not only a question of sensitivity, but sensitivity to the distress of others is a preparation for human empathy. Sensitivity, that is, the fact that admitting that an animal is a sensitive being, is not a sensitivity, but another view of the world. If we looked at the world in this way, perhaps it would not be brutalized in all the other areas as we do: I am thinking of the social field, but also of all the other relationships to nature. We have to stop: frankly, I was present at the first reading of the bill, and when we addressed the question of the male chicks being thrown into the shredders, we were all here, in this House, on the brink of nausea. Indeed, some of our colleagues were not aware of it, others were discovering it. You yourself, Minister, who are like me and like everyone else here, had found this horrible idea. We were told that there was a study to determine, from the stage of the egg, whether it housed a male chick or a female chick. All right, but in the meantime, we're still grinding them, and that's not acceptable. It's exactly like glyphosate: if something is unacceptable, we have to stop. I am told that this creates delicate economic situations: well let's look at them! Let's see how we can help people who needed this type of treatment to produce without using it. It is easier to solve a financial or technical problem than to perpetuate acts of barbarism of this nature. The same applies to glyphosate: I say this with all due respect to our colleague from the IDU Group, Action and Independents, who preceded me in this rostrum. Dear colleague, you have told us very relevant things, which we all hear. But finally, if this product is, as we have been told, dangerous, then let's stop using it right away. You tell us, what everyone can hear, that this use cannot be stopped immediately. I also ask you to hear the consequences, which we know, of such use: malformations, diseases, cancers and the cost to society, which I mention to finish my list. We will therefore have to stop using it: we have planned to do so within three years. We find that the deadline is too long and we hope that it will be immediately banned. Indeed, the European Union has, Mr Minister, decided on a different matter, which will be binding on us: it has extended the right to use glyphosates for five years, a period after which a re-visit clause is provided for. You will see that at that time the same lobbies will return to the offensive when Bayer and Monsanto – curiously, moreover, with the agreement of the European Commission – will have finished merging and when the German government will come, as it did the last time, against the opinion of the French President – our neighbours from across the Rhine did indeed pass our opinion – defend its authorisation for another five years. You'll see if you can just challenge them like that. It is now that we have to tell them: we will. And when we French disobey and frown, things change. The last time we did it was for cherries; As the product we were doing was a horror – he was a carcinogen – we banned him. Of course, we have had the European Commission's recriminations, but we have not changed anything; we continued to do as we did, we decided to do. Well, what happened? Other countries have changed their positions and decided to ban the product as well, because they thought that if the French did, the problem must be serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u130	The Turks didn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u131	Yes! When the French make a decision, it counts! It is worth disobeying the European Union, building power relations! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] A new agriculture must emerge – but it will not be through this bill. We see that you are trying to do the right thing, but I hope I have convinced colleagues and yourself, Mr President-in-Office, that if the amendments we are proposing are not adopted, there is little chance that we will vote in favour of this text, because we will not, even to please you, raise our arms to approve something that – let me tell you – is not worth it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u132	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u133	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after this brilliant speech, as long as it is planned, I shall be no longer grounded, but I hope to remain on the subject. As an introduction, I would like to refer to an advertisement that has been slipped over the last few days in many mailboxes. Banale, this information of a commercial nature, as there are hundreds of them every day emanating from the brands of the large distribution, throws us at the heart of tonight's debate. What's this about? In his "Tops" promotions, Auchan – I could have taken the example of another brand – announces the milk liter in radius at 59 cents euro. For a branded milk, 59 euro cents a litre at the supermarket, after collection, pasteurization, packaging by the processor, how much does it do for the farm? Do the count! The farmer, who works 80 hours a week, 360 days a year, or more, gets only a few drops. On social networks, we find this wise comment: "Auchan France quickly forgets the commitments EGALIM! – that is to say, the commitments made during the general states of food. In response to this situation, and to others where it is rather the cooperative that takes the fat, leaving to the producer the meagre, an official of the National Federation of Milk Producers – of which there are many members in the country of Bray, in my constituency – said recently: "We are far from the state of mind that prevailed when the milk sector plan was built and the conclusion of the General Food States began [...] Producers are no longer just the market adjustment variable. They are also the variable in relation to collector results. The pages of the newspapers are full of bitter findings such as this one, made during testimonies or meetings on the ground. Minister, as we begin a new reading of this agriculture and food bill, a year has already passed since the end of the general states of food. We are just a few weeks away from the beginning of the price negotiations, and advertisements like Auchan's, which boast the agricultural break and the happiness of the consumer at the cost of the misfortune of the producers, are still flourishing. Although the price of milk has recovered slightly in recent months, it remains below its 2014 level. At 335 euros per 1000 litres, while production costs are on average 364 euros – they differ from one territory to another – milk still does not pay. Worse, producers feel that rising prices are not fully reflected in the price paid on the farm. In other words, they do not take full advantage of the improvement of the situation and some of the cream passes under their noses – proof that this market is not the world of Chupi and that neither a petition from the Government nor even a petition from the President of the Republic will suffice to restore virtue to actors who, in the end, wish to make as much money as possible. If we want to reverse the logic of price construction so that producers are properly paid and can live in dignity, that the haemorrhage of farms in our country is stopped, and that we stop the flight forward towards ever larger farms and an industrial model whose damage is measured a little more daily, we need the intervention of the public authorities and regulation. A year has passed since the promise made in the general states to promote a transition to a more sustainable, value-rich and job-providing model of agriculture, based on consumption and on the new and legitimate expectations of consumers. Yet, Minister, as we begin this debate, we continue to destroy value in our country – the value of peasant labor. You will rightly point out that this text is not yet being applied and that this may be one of the reasons why this evil continues to flourish. The question remains: what remains of the hope raised by the general states of food? I imagine that the commitment and honesty of the minister and the rapporteur are not being debated for anyone here. To the truth, there's not much left. And if the text has not yet been adopted, if it can still be strengthened by amendments, it must be noted that the fate reserved by the Senate for the provisions that we introduced to muscle the text does not help to reassure us. These provisions have been removed without a state of soul. This has not escaped either the dominant actors, who, for some, had worked to convince you to reject such an amendment that is considered too restrictive, or the dominated actors, who will not be able to shelter themselves tomorrow under the protective power of a text that could not have been enriched by the parliamentary debate. I recall that you have refused the contributions, proposed by various benches, intended to make the law more effective in the light of the hopes born of the general states of food – but perhaps this has been arbitrated by Bercy? If your position were to be summarized in one sentence, I would say that the Government and the majority reject the whistle that we want to equip the arbitrator with. This is very clear with regard to the reversal of price construction. You do not want to hear about a framework of price indicators through recourse to public authorities if there is a lack of inter-industry agreement, nor about fixed or determinable prices in contracts, which would be necessary if there was to be more transparency in pricing – although I heard the rapporteur say that he wanted to make some progress on the subject. You do not want an abusively low price definition that would be effective for all market situations and really useful for producers. Basically, apart from the limit on promotions and the 10% increase in the loss resale threshold, many of which doubt the beneficial effect on producers, you rely on the goodwill of everyone. As soon as we try to introduce regulatory provisions, to put public arbitration in the loop, you take refuge behind Community law and the primacy of competition rules, telling us, as in the song: "I think that's not going to be possible. After all, the rapporteur even invoked, like a mantra, the speech by Rungis of the President of the Republic, which called for accountability. I believe that André Chassaigne has planned to take over the best pieces of the presidential speech to show how complicated it will be to realize. We believe that the voice of the President of the Republic, he would have been very popular, which no longer seems to be the case, cannot replace binding rules of the game in terms of commercial relations between producer, processor and distributor. It is a belief that the solution lies in market freedom. I hope you will catch up with this second round, but such an attitude has made you evacuate many of the improvements we have made. At the bottom, the validation of market indicators by a public authority. At the pit, the paragraph which stipulated that in contracts the price should be determined or determinable by a clear and accessible formula. In the marnière, the article which had been introduced by the Senate and which intended to protect dairy producers from the brutal breaches of their contractual relations with the buyer, by providing for the possibility for the producer to demand the extension of the contract for a period of three months – which, however, was not much. In the attic, the administrative fine for the buyer that would impose late delivery penalties in excess of 2% of the value of the goods delivered. On the other hand, the article introduced by the Senate to prohibit a trading partner from subjecting it to late delivery penalties without taking into account the supply constraints in terms of quality and origin specific to certain production lines – you will agree that these were not revolutionary amendments! The request for an annual evaluation report on the fulfilment of France's commitments in the European and international context with regard to the aims of its agricultural and food policy has been removed. The reference to the maintenance of local slaughterhouses – you know how much I have been mobilised for several months in Forges-les-Eaux to ensure that human-scale slaughterhouses, if a slaughterhouse can be, continue to irrigate territories like the one I am elected to. Deleted, the article on marketable seed in the form of blends of varieties. However, the article introduced by the Senate and providing for the submission to Parliament of a report giving an assessment of the situation, in particular as regards their volume and origin, of products from organic farming and from third countries outside the European Union. Disappeared and replaced by a report, in other words not much, the compensation scheme for the victims of plant protection products. A comparison was made with asbestos; Of course, the proportions are not the same, but the creation of a fund to compensate the victims of plant protection products would seem to us to be a strong signal to the populations concerned. A year ago, in general, you put everyone around the table, from producer to consumer through processors and distributors. We had said everything, without taboo, as part of a great truth operation; Even if many statements of good intentions were heard, everyone had welcomed him. As we are not naive, we communists had done so ourselves, without ulterior motives, but we had in the same movement indicated that the translation of the conclusions of the workshops of the General States would have to be judged on documents. The apparently shared idea that it is essential to pay more for peasant work in our country in order to stop the destruction of value which bleeds the French countryside and bleeds the rural world with its blood lies at the heart of our debates. The first reading of the text, its passage to the Senate and the examination by the Joint Joint Committee have unfortunately struck the gloom of this fundamental ambition. Even if we can glean, here or there, some progress, overall the account is not there. The harvest is mediocre and, at each of our encounters with the peasant world, we feel disappointment. Nevertheless, through our proposals, we will defend the possibility of reaching a new reading of the law through a more forceful drafting. For this to happen, Minister, you would have to let yourself be convinced that you should not be afraid of regulation – besides, not so long ago, you were convinced of it. So let yourself be convinced that the referee's hand on his whistle is better than the invisible hand of the market. The difficulties of our agriculture must prompt you to do so. After milk, I will talk about beet, a crop that is also very important to us, and about the sadly illuminating fall of its price. Two years after the abolition of quotas, this price collapses, history repeats itself; the lesson of milk should have been learned. Liberalisation, the gradual abolition of all regulatory tools, one after the other, in recent years, strike and hurt – from the producer, in fact, to the processing companies. The logic of gigantism, which does not spare the world of cooperation and undermines the trust that co-operators place in their co-operative, causes damage. From all of this, it should be remembered that agriculture and food should not be handed down feet and fists linked to the logic of profit alone. Reference was made in this regard to the threats posed by free trade treaties; I imagine André Chassaigne will come back to it more precisely. We maintain that the promise of the EGAs can only be fulfilled if we regulate, if we set a framework for negotiations and the limits that must not be exceeded, if we give power to a true arbitrator backed by public authority and equipped with tools to render arbitrations, if we foresee constraints in the event that OTC negotiations do not lead to remunerative price agreements in a funnel-shaped market: I want to talk about this market, this jungle in which 470000 producers and 18,000 processors – most of them SMEs – are dealing, as colleagues have pointed out, with four large purchasing plants that make the rain and the good weather. It is also necessary to create conditions for our agricultural model to continue its transformation, so that responsible and reasoned agriculture becomes more widespread and organics continue to grow. We therefore do not give up, and we will present in the course of the debate a series of amendments which pursue the objectives which I have just listed. If we want the reversal of the logic of price construction not to be a map castle but a Norman cottage, all this is indeed necessary. Nor do we give up on the issue of plant protection products in general, on glyphosate in particular, nor, more broadly, on the need to support our agriculture in its transformation towards a more sustainable model. On this point, I want to clarify things. We have all been, ladies and gentlemen, recipients of more or less pleasant e-mails, not to say assassins, which called into question our probity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u134	Yes, unpleasant messages to say the least!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u135	In this respect, I want to clarify the position of the Communist Group. We are in favour, without any ambiguity, of leaving glyphosate on a three-year horizon. I want to say this again very clearly, knowing well that a saviour vote, between the middle of the night and the dawn of a Sunday, almost without debate – and the new minister of ecology is responsible for the conditions of this vote – may have blurred positions. But we also say that this exit can only be achieved, as we wish, through a support plan for farmers. That's what we're asking you, Minister. What is your plan or, in the absence of a finalized plan – and at the time when a parliamentary working group is set up – what are the main lines of it? I would like to recall that between the time when the President of the Republic announced, in 2017, the release of the glyphosate in three years and the moment when this issue arose, in a unsatisfactory way, at the first reading of this text, time has passed. Where are we? How can we be assured that we will actually get out of glyphosate? What accompanying plan, what investment fund has been planned to prevent farmers from plunged into an accelerated spiral? That is the state of mind in which we will deal with all the amendments on the subject. We are driven by the desire to engrave these objectives in the law, particularly with regard to the accompanying fund: not only in the law "ÉGA", moreover, but also in the future law of finance. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] These, Mr Minister, are the proposals that I wanted to make on behalf of my group. In conclusion, it is not the commitment or honesty of each other that is at stake, but the ability to build a state that protects against the invisible hand of the market, strikes lives and hurts the peasant world. It is on this that we are expected to reread this important text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u137	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u138	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, remember, more than a year ago, on 20 July 2017, there were many of us in Bercy for the launch of the general states of food, one of the first projects launched by the Government and the majority. I dare say, what a long way to go! Our country has never talked so much about agriculture and food, and this mobilization of forces has allowed us to have a real debate and exchange on these issues, I think we will all agree. At the national level, with the 14 workshops set up, and throughout our territories, issues related to our food, farmers' income and agricultural transition have been at the heart of the discussions that have been going through our society over the past year. This large-scale national mobilization was, is and will still be necessary in the coming months because, despite its many forces, French agriculture has experienced an unprecedented crisis, with an increase in low incomes and an increasingly fierce price war, which has precarised our farmers. At 18300 euros a year, their average wage is in fact at a free drop of 29% compared to 2015. This structural crisis has been affecting all sectors for several years. We reinvent our agricultural model with professionals to regain the path of competitiveness and give meaning to a breathless sector: this is not done alone. This text illustrates the will of the majority to reform our country as a whole, to free and protect, to bring new tools to the agricultural world and to enable everyone to have access to healthier food. It is therefore based on two pillars, first reflected in its economic aspect, with the necessary rebalancing of agricultural trade relations: to this end, new tools are given to the actors to enable them, finally, to live in dignity of their work, without going towards public indicators. The other aspect, societal, focuses on the necessary transition of our diet in order to make it more sustainable and healthier: everyone has an interest in it. Remember the bill introduced by the Government last January: it contained seventeen articles. Today, we are starting to consider a text that has more than a hundred of it. It's the result of our work...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u139	That's the whole problem, rather!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u140	- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Among the measures of which I am particularly proud, of course, I want to mention the strengthening of the role of the Ombudsman and OFPM in accompanying inter-branch work in the definition of indicators, and the modulation of sanctions in the event of failure to comply with the new contracting rules, with a fine fixed as a percentage of turnover. The producer and distributor must be at the same level in the negotiations. Other measures: an ambitious Article 11, on the understanding that it is first at school that we teach our children how to eat well, or the best consideration of food aid, which remains a central issue for many of our citizens. Measures are expected in the context of the "poverty" plan presented tomorrow by the President of the Republic: they will of course complement this text. A quality diet should not be reserved for a few, but should be accessible to as many people as possible. I would also like to welcome the broadening of the definition of neonicotinoids – a topic on which France has been and continues to be a precursor – and the ban on the installation of any new caged laying hens. Indeed, our fellow citizens' expectations of animal welfare are growing and legitimate. We are aware that this is a starting point and that improvements in animal welfare are still needed. We are working in this direction with the actors concerned. As I indicated in committee, the text voted by the Senate was no longer up to its ambitions. Aimed at its substance and too far from its original objectives, it made it difficult to achieve a conclusive CMP. Therefore, it is up to us to come back to the very spirit of the original text, to reconnect with the fundamentals that have guided us through these many months of work and thus to bring the right answers to our farmers. We have listened to them, heard them, and we will be at their side for the follow-up of this law and for the complementary work that has already begun. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, as you will understand, this bill is part of a reformary vision that profoundly transforms our agricultural model, and I count on the mobilization of all of us. I would also like to assure you that every effort is being made to ensure that the next trade negotiations take place at the best possible stage. We will devote several more hours to this text in our House, and I look forward to the fact that agriculture and food, the daily concerns of the 65 million French, are the subject of such passionate debates in this place, which represents the heart of our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u141	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u142	Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have at last, on a new reading, before us this bill, which has kept the agricultural profession alive for almost eight months. We are therefore approaching the final drafting of this text, and I cannot hide my concern or my deep disappointment in this regard, Minister. The text is indeed far from the great agricultural law promised to the French last February. The President of the Republic and you yourself promised us a strong text that would ensure income for our farmers and a healthy diet. I have no doubt about your goodwill in this regard, and in turn emphasises your involvement, as well as the hard work you have done with us over these long weeks. Your initial text was, like your intentions, ambitious, because it promised to straighten the ship. But after the various readings to which he has been subjected, it must be noted that the boat is sinking and that agriculture continues to drown. The text has almost been emptied of any substance, with the majority and the Government preferring to deny the considerable progress of the general states of food. The workshops, very present during the presentation of the text on February 1st, are no longer there. While agriculture needs support more than ever, we regret that it is abandoned here, if not buried. Milk and meat prices are still not on track, and the situation is becoming more and more alarming. Therefore, great difficulties are to be expected in the coming months; If we add the latest up-to-date hazards, such as drought, we fear that farmers will no longer be able to cope. Between Brexit, the announced decrease in CAP allocations and the treaties of CETA or MERCOSUR – the Common Market of the South – there are serious concerns about the future of our agriculture. It had therefore become urgent to give him the means to face the challenges ahead. It needed a strong and ambitious text, focusing on the conditions of our peasants. But we are faced with a broken text, which sometimes defends the animal cause, sometimes the environment, thus forgetting its central vocation: the return to the balance of trade relations. The defence of the causes I have just mentioned is essential, but cannot and must not be done to the detriment of our farmers. When I wrote these few lines last night, I realized how much this exercise weighs on me for two reasons. The first is that I had had great hopes, and that I would never have imagined going up to this rostrum to make the comments I just made. The second is that I still think that this text will be the only one in the quinquennium on the subject. If it is not successful, if it does not fulfil the objectives you set for it and if we try to pursue it, it will be only a very unfortunate opportunity missed. I will therefore go to the essentials to try to express our fears if the text is to be adopted as it stands. Its long-awaited title I concerns the economic aspect, that is, the nerve of war, as some say, on all farms in France. What can I say about this? That the text contain only half-measures. Reversing the pricing process is a great idea, which we make ours by your side. But there are two shortcomings in this text which will undoubtedly deprive it of the beneficial effects that are expected. First of all, by entrusting the sectors with the considerable burden of implementing this approach without providing for genuine legislative safeguards, the problem is sown everywhere. As the negotiating period approaches, the doubt becomes irremediable: what about isolated producers? What about the process of creating price indicators and their third-party effectiveness? Your reform, which has not been completed, will prove to be futile. Secondly, in the event of a conflict during the preparation of the prize, you did not wish, despite all our efforts in this direction, to equip the mediator with the essential powers that would only guarantee his effectiveness, namely the possibility of referral to the competent judges. How, then, can we impose anything? Overall, this text is a terrible missed opportunity to give or restore to agriculture its letters of nobility by affirming loud and clear that it is an economic activity, which must allow those working in the sector to live decently and to develop their structures in accordance with their vocation to feed their fellow citizens and their desire to provide high-quality products. In this regard, no clear stance is taken. The very words made by the President of the Republic in Rungis are cruelly denied by the result of our work. The provisions concerning the processes of recognition of the origin of the products and of their mode of manufacture are also very scrutinized, and even contradictory for some of them. Thus, at the turn of some debates, the existing appellations – protected designation of origin, controlled designation of origin, protected geographical indication – may finally be drowned in the midst of new signs of recognition, which could mislead the consumer and mislead him while dangerously destabilising entire sections of our agriculture. As far as collective restoration is concerned, there is no dispute that it is legitimate to use it for prescription purposes by imposing ratios on certain types of products. But not taking into account the differences between small and large structures and subjecting them all to the same constraints is a madness, which will pay off: the smallest will be forced to disappear and leave room for industrial establishments able to cope with these burdens, but also inclined, of course, to ignore the local, virtuous, dimension of supply. As far as the environment and animal welfare are concerned, finally, the debates have been more than bitter, sometimes leaving us a bitter taste – as I say to you, Minister – as when a member of the majority group falsely suggested that an amendment tabled in the Hussarde, against the Government's opinion – against your opinion! – and that of the rapporteur, could make it possible to ban certain substances and guarantee consumers that they will no longer have them on their plate. However, we stood by your side to defend a uniform vision of this issue at European level and a pragmatic accompaniment to the changes it implies. Without in any way calling into question the respect due to animals and the environment, is it really serious to separate completely, as you do, the advice and the sale for all plant protection products, and to impose considerable additional burdens on operators, while blowing up relatively new and effective devices such as Certiphyto? [[Gilles Lurton applauds]] More generally, is it Parliament's responsibility to think, for several months, that our farmers pollute and massacre, while they are the first to take a protective look at nature and provide their animals with the best possible care? I really don't think so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u144	And then there is everything that this text does not contain, despite the innumerable articles that have been added to it, some of which have absolutely nothing to do with it. In the light of the proposal for a law on agriculture which I defended before this House almost a year ago, I consider that at least three subjects should absolutely be included in this text. First of all, the role of our agriculture in the rural world, which opens up a very wide range of questions: the use of space, the plurality of uses made of it and, quite simply, the sustainability of an agriculture based on the family unit – albeit enlarged – which we defend and which, for my part, I will continue to defend tirelessly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u145	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u146	If we had addressed these issues, Minister, many of our debates on prices, on the environment, on man's relationship to the environment and to animals, I am sure, would have found a very different and otherwise more promising outcome for our farmers. You didn't want it. Worse: you take advantage of this text to carry, almost subreptitiously, a fatal blow to the departmental dimension of our chambers of agriculture, forcing them to a regionalization that will isolate even more farmers from our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u147	It's always bigger!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u148	Secondly, the transmission of agricultural holdings, obviously linked to the previous subject, which is a vital condition for the future of our farms and territories. How can we make a law on agriculture without finding a solution to this scourge which has already cost us so many farms and which continues to cause the disappearance of farm seats every day? Talking about this difficult coexistence between the heritage issues within the family and the indispensable intergenerational transmission of work tools that have become very expensive would also have allowed us to raise the debate. You didn't want it, preferring to refer us to a hypothetical land law. Finally, the place of our agriculture in Europe and in the world, a subject whose total absence in the text weakens it and makes it almost obsolete. How can we set the rules for our farmers without studying precisely what is being done by their direct competitors? How can we define a new framework for their work without addressing the thorny issue of exchange treaties? How can we not use this text to give you – to you, Minister – weapons for the delicate negotiations that await you in Brussels on the future CAP? You didn't want it, preferring to submit to us a very narrow law, which our competitors will strategically use to their advantage. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] As I said, this bill is likely to be the only agricultural text in the quinquennium. We therefore have an important duty to make it a useful, decisive act that saves our farmers and our territories by opening up opportunities for them. We only have a few days left, only a few hours. Minister, we ask you – I ask you – with insistence and seriousness not to make us irreparably miss this appointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u149	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u150	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the last straight line of the examination of this law, which has been a long journey, a real marathon. First of all, I want to say that I hope that this last stage will be respectful and profoundly democratic, that it will allow us to go through our explanations and clarify what motivated the hundreds of hours we spent together, both during the general statements of food and during the various readings of the text, in committee, and during the hearings held in the House. I salute this work. If we have not voted on the motion to refer it back to committee, it is that – we must admit it here, even if our debates have not gone to the end and have not been at the required level – time and pedagogy have been sufficient for the law to be based on dialogue with civil society and between us. But we couldn't handle it at the right level. As I have said on many occasions, it is thus paradoxical that the parliamentary debate seemed to have taken place before the GAEs, as if they had not taken place. The EGAs have produced a higher thought than the one generated by this debate, they have been more fruitful. This raises a real question, to which I am unable to answer: how could we get there? How could this stall happen? How could the work resulting from the pleas – I don't like to talk about lobbies – of each other resurrect from the trench wars that we tried to get out of during the EGAs and which, however, almost obsessed with our parliamentary discussions? For me, it's a mystery. It would be an interesting subject of political study: how did we move from the hope of the EGAs to a law which, for reasons of pragmatism, certainly cannot do everything, but which, in our opinion, to us Socialists, does not do enough, and above all to a parliamentary debate which has regressed – I do not accuse anyone, we have our share – in relation to the EGAs? We were in a war of trenches between consumers and producers, between productivists and ecologists, etc. The EGAs have been constantly sitting around the table with the aim of finding innovative solutions, moving us – to return to the comparison with the Great War – towards new positions, borders, lines. And then there was that result. Of course, the majority will say that this is a big step. If we were in bad faith, we could argue that it's nothing. We can still say that this is a missed appointment. I simply state it, without hatred or reproach, and in the light of an experience which I will take the time to tell you the origin. I had the chance, as of last week, to meet Jean-Baptiste Moreau – I will not say "Mr. the rapporteur", because it is indeed the man, my colleague, that I am speaking. The first thing we asked ourselves was not how the Republic on the move or the Socialist Group was doing; The first question I asked her was, "How are you doing? He responded by evoking the supply of animals in the parks. I had seen my associates the day before, and that's what we talked about: climate dependence; lack of food; The anxiety of climate change that disturbs our farms, the agendas of farmers and their employees, the calendar of winter forage; and the rising anxiety. We're changing the season, changing the world; We're going to have to adapt; This is a challenge that we may never have had to face. It was this terror that lived in us, and solidarity against it that brought us together beyond the political divides. And it's from there, I think, that we have to leave. That same week, we buried our science well, the man who created our museum, all our local culture, an immense humanist: the family veterinarian. He was the educator of the whole society in my territory. There are people like this – it is sometimes the teacher, sometimes the veterinarian or others – men who give their souls to the territories. On the day of his funeral, in the cathedral of Toul, he was told that he was the last holder of peasant wisdom. Of great humanism, he knew the letters – the Hebrew as the patois –, cared for the beasts as the people. He is a man who has deeply influenced me and my family and all the peasant families in the territory. The next day, I was at ENSAIA, the École nationale supérieure d'agronomie et des industries alimentaires de Nancy. You know it, minister: it is one of the four major schools in the country that train engineers in the agri-food sector. The students had asked me, in my speech, to give meaning to their profession. I had carte blanche for an hour. I told them about our common passion: the EGAs. I told them the hope that was born and that none of our current failures should silence. I said that your legacy would be to have had the intuition, with Nicolas Hulot and others, that we should bring this debate into society. We may not be at the meeting, but it remains an appointment for our society and for our economy, and we will try, within a few hours, to ensure that it is as little missed as possible. I hope that, to this end, a kind welcome will be given to the very realistic proposals which the Socialists will formulate in this last straight line. Looking at these future engineers, who are going to work on bio-economy, on the changes of biotechnology, who will have to be at the rendezvous of the new food habits, here and in the world, which, in three years' time, will be employed by large agri-food companies, will install a food truck, will invest in the short circuits or will think on the contrary world trade, which will inhabit all these universes, I thought that our peasant universe was ultimately both the world of tradition, of rooting, and that of all revolutions. First of all, the Great Revolution, the one which makes us come together in this Chamber, and which gave the land to the peasants, who liberated them from bondage, in this moment of emancipation which constitutes property. Then, the post-war one, with François Tanguy-Prigent and Edgard Pisani: the peasant-entrepreneur, protected from the owners, became notable, and who will emancipate himself, produce modernization and found a model of agricultural development that still remains dominant in our collective imagination. In the end, the peasants, in their diversity, here and elsewhere, are deeply men of roots and modernity, men of tradition and permanent technological, social and cultural revolutions. Peasants are men of the land in the two senses – the humus and the planet – evoked by Benoît Grimonprez at a wonderful symposium held in Poitiers on the state of public law relating to soils. They work the matter, they have their hands in the earth, they are in contact with living matter and, at the same time, they have one of the keys to the future of the world: food sovereignty, the ability to feed ten billion people in 2050, that is, in thirty years' time. Thirty years from now, in 2050, the students I was speaking to will be our age, and we will be between nine and ten billion people on the planet. Everybody's gonna have to eat. It is about the peace of the world, in part, that we have the capacity to find solutions to climate change. It is certainly about the security of the world, to see the consequences in terms of migration and conflict. Yesterday's newspaper Le Monde reported on the consequences of climate change on the worsening of hunger in the world. Over the past three years, this problem has worsened and, in the coming years, the greatest concerns have been expressed by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). Simulations of the impact of climate change – floods and cyclones in Asia, droughts in Africa – draw dramatic prospects. I have described to this generation five "Borders", from our common work, which they could seek to achieve. A first frontier brings us all together, that of food "of all qualities and for all." I like this formula, recently taken over by ATD Fourth World. "All the qualities" speak of a food that is a feast and a gathering, of a gastronomic tradition that still exists in our country, to take the time to gather around the table. Now it is known that the quality and availability of this food, for those who eat badly and for those who are hungry, are crucial health challenges. It is known that about 50% of health issues are related to food. Dominique Voynet, who hosted a workshop of the general states of food, quoted a very simple figure that struck me deeply – I had invited her to our territory, together with Guillaume Garot. Type 2 diabetes and obesity generate €27 billion in public care reparations in France's budget, while the CAP's share is €9 billion. There is therefore a huge gap between the money we spend on supporting agricultural production and the money we spend on repairing the consequences of poorly oriented and organized food, the first victims of which are the poorest and most fragile. "A food of all qualities and for all" should be the great purpose of our Republic. We should all be able to access food that rejoices, shares and guarantees everyone's health by providing sustainable landscapes and an environment that is fertile for agriculture itself. The second theme I developed in front of these young engineers is "one health". This movement, which is called One Health in English, aims to break with Deep Ecology, a pantheism that some ecologists defend – I don't see any among us, but I have recognized by reading some of the amendments. They put the earth or the animals above man. I like that, in our humanism from the Enlightenment and other philosophical and spiritual traditions, man be at the centre; let man be first.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u152	This "One Health" movement recalls the hierarchy of things for a healthy man. This is a real unifying project. If I was young and once again chaired a community of communes or an agricultural development group, that's the slogan I would choose: "one health." There is no good health of man without good health of the animal, no good health of the animal without good health of the plant, no health of the plant without good health of the earth. Man is at the heart of our concerns, but the number of years of life he will experience, in the fullness of his well-being, depends on the health of the soil microbiology of which we are the conservatives and guardians: for future fertility, we must feed the earth in quantity and quality. "One Health"! If I were young, I would lead this political project on my territory and, if I were in power today, I would make it, with "the food of all qualities for all", a federative political project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u153	[[Smile]] Let's go to politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u154	I'll think about it, dear André Chassaigne! The third theme covered was a mission that we had managed to obtain from the Committee on Economic Affairs, in the last parliamentary term, following a fight we had waged with our socialist colleagues, with André Chassaigne, for the communists, with centrists, gathered in a majority of ideas, concerned about the three evils that are affecting the earth today: the artificialisation, the land grabbing and the impoverishment of the soil. Stéphane Le Foll taught us a lot about impoverishment about the "4 per 1000" of humus: when the humus is absent, the earth becomes poorer and climate change accelerates; When it is there, it represents almost a quarter of the world's solutions to climate change. One piece of land! The fight against artificialisation, land grabbing and soil impoverishment is a top priority. The earth is not a good like any other; It is an extraordinary good that must be protected and shared as a common good. The question of soil, here and elsewhere, will again become a political subject and a major issue. The United Nations tells us that land grabbing is now at the root of more misery on our planet than wars. I have also referred to the question of the relationship between nations and Europe to the world before this youth gathered around the meaning of his commitment and his profession. What we had explored, by voting laws such as the one of 27 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies, certainly constituted the invention of solidarity sovereignty, the ability to emerge from solitary sovereignty and bilateral international contracts such as Europe is negotiating them today, each nation integrating the concern of its interdependence into the future of other nations. This changes everything for the respect of human rights and the environment, and it would allow us to think multilaterally of other trade and commercial contexts that those we are inventing today, of which I keep saying that they are part of the logic of the Shadoks who, the oldest among us, like Gilles Lurton, surely remember, were absurdly pompous. I see Claude Molac knows them too! I find that CETA or MERCOSUR constitute a Shadok globalization. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development at first reading knows this very well: milk is exchanged for beef when it is possible to produce milk and beef in the same territory – this is a common agronomic sense. Globalization, which leads to the exchange of anything for anything, with disastrous carbon balances, by destructing resilient and adapted local economies and agro-systems as well as soils that could withstand the risks of the twenty-first century, is totally absurd. We need to rethink the agricultural exception, think about globalization based on human rights, respect for the environment and a new generation of treaties, and rethink globalization in multilateral terms. This is the new frontier that we can set for young people who will one day replace us in our farms and in this House! I also raised with these young people the question of the relationship between public power and entrepreneurship. An old ideological quarrel between the state and the company; We're not here anymore! We certainly have to invent and seek together – I know that on many benches in this House we share this concern – the way to reconcile the rise of the regulations essential for the survival of the planet, with the entrepreneurial spirit to which they do not oppose. If we take the example of the land, wherever we leave the logic of the market and the law of the strongest to operate, we see a triple impoverishment: economic, ecological and social by job losses. Wherever there is regulation of markets, of the land market, of the price of raw materials and of trade, on the contrary, there is a new prosperity that allows the best of entrepreneurship to express itself. It is on the side of these proposals, which combine a regulatory public power and a real empowerment – or "empowerment", according to the word Quebecois that Roland Lescure has blown me and that I prefer to the English term – that one must look at. They say the capacity of a cooperative, a territory, a sector to take charge of itself with regulations, which limit the effects of destructive neo-liberalism, and an entrepreneurial spirit that allows the autonomy and mobilization of the actors, both in the territories and in the sectors. I note that these perspectives have deeply inhabited the general states of food, in particular the workshop which you have given me the honour of entrusting to me the animation, with Guillaume Garot and others. The priorities of these general states, which should have formed the background of our work, say in a very concrete way what could be the story of a new agricultural France, as the President of the Republic had designed it at Rungis in a moment of consensus and elevation, but which, unfortunately, turned out to be, not a founding narrative whose traces were not found in subsequent works, but a fiction. The first priority is succession. There is no way out if we do not share the earth, if we do not make it accessible to new generations. As you often say, Minister, the majority of current farmers must retire in the next ten years. We know that there are no more economies of scale to wait for expansions of operations. This generational succession requires a new common agricultural policy that places employment and assets at the heart of things, but also promotes the sharing of means of production, and puts in place a great deal of regulation of raw materials and their production, as well as a sharing of access to land. The second priority is to find a France that, instead of apologising and predicing on ecological transition models, takes, with agroecology, politically founded and animated during the last quinquennium, European leadership. I believe that, in terms of both bio and agroecology in general, we have a vocation, because of our soil science, our veterinary science, our gastronomic influence, to be a leader in Europe, at least in this transition. Polyculture – livestock farming cannot be claimed as a single model – it is enough to travel to France to see that this would not work. It can nevertheless be cited as a reference model capable of reconnecting livestock and crops: to protect our natural grasslands and their virtues in the light of biodiversity and climate resilience, to feed the best livestock for the best meat, to practice long-term rotations, all this constitutes an agronomic revolution called agroecology. This is what we must go towards rather than sticking to this banal statement and ultimately to the nonsense that we must not oppose the models. I understand very well in what political sense you say this to your interlocutors, minister, but let me use my freedom as a parliamentarian to tell you that this expression ends up irritating me, because it comes to implying that everything is worth it – and when everything is worth it, it is the most powerful who win. I think it is necessary to say today that one model is more virtuous than the others. It cannot be unique, but it must serve as a reference and a course. It is the polyculture-breeding, on the scale of the farm, the terroir, of a region. If we do not regain that capacity, we will not resist the winds of the world, nor will we be able to adapt to the changes that are taking place in globalization. A very important point was highlighted during the general states of diet, especially in the workshop that I was leading: protein autonomy. I regret that the need for plant protein autonomy has not been sufficiently affirmed in the bill or in your statements. This need will be highlighted tomorrow at a symposium on an agro-ecological Europe during which I will speak as a witness, and in which the National Institute for Agricultural Research – INRA also participates. This autonomy allows us to fight deforestation in the Amazon, to lengthen the rotations on our territories, to free ourselves from pesticides. From all points of view, economic, ecological and social, the assessment would be beneficial. The protein autonomy of regions like mine, the Great East, France and Europe is a political horizon that is able to restore hope to Europeans and coherence to our territories and our lands. The recovery of the internal market requires not only an organic plan that meets the expectations of society, but also the need to ensure and support the transformation of farms in order to find, everywhere in France, the quality farms that our rapporteur knows very well. We may eat less meat, but it will have to be better – "less, but better," say beef federations and interprofessionals. This meat will not be produced in cages or batteries, but on our soil, under the renewed conditions of an environmentally friendly and quality-friendly production. But the most important proposal for the recovery of the internal market, the most innovative, is that which we have put forward, beyond a fruit and vegetable plan, to promote the high environmental value, HVE. The AB label, organic farming, created about three decades ago, made its revolution in the world of business. The five bans allow the peasant world and the sectors, under the control of the state, through certified private companies, to take control of themselves and to move towards reconciliation of society and the peasant world on the basis of new expectations. We must not think that there is organic farming and everything else; A third sector must be created between conventional and organic farming. I believe that you are convinced of this, since we have included it in the law because of your benevolence. It must now be made a very important plan. High environmental value can be the territorial mark of agroecology that draws upwards the farming modes of tomorrow. Manifested through the signs of quality and origin, SIQO – one of our amendments made it possible to obtain it – it will have to represent one of the biggest engines that allow citizens, communities and territories to embark on this change with a clear benchmark that, far from referring to a private norm – "B to B" – is re-appropriated by the public authorities and left to the freedom of the actors in the sectors and territories. A few words on the Ecophyto plan and our EGA proposals. These hours of debate, in large part, have not met our expectations. For having worked with Minister Stéphane Le Foll in recent years to accompany your dialogue with the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Health on these issues, I must state my disagreement with certain points of view that have been developed in the House. I am a fierce supporter of the freeing of our agriculture and our system of production from dependence on phytopharmacy. I am a staunch activist of the independence of the European agencies and the French agency, who must be able to resist all lobbies and, thanks to increased financial autonomy and an established scientific and democratic capacity, help us to gradually set the limits of the bans and open possibilities. We know that the real solution lies in the mutation to agroecology, and that all molecule-based solutions by molecule or perimeter are dead ends that keep us away from the goal. That is why instead of yelling with wolves, I and the Socialist Group have adopted a different position. I do not think it is up to Parliament to determine the duration of validity of medicinal products or plant protection products. The honour of a great democracy is to entrust to autonomous and free agencies, provided with an ethics committee and subject to the control of Parliament and the State, the task of determining the prohibitions, in the interests of the general interest, of that of our planet and of its resources of water, air and living elements, and with respect for people and their health. They must be able to act far from the lobbies, in reason and in democracy, neither under the pressure of opinion nor under the pressure of the market. The great modern democracies work this way and I think it would be regressive to consider something else. So, yes to a reinforcement, to a very strong "empowerment" of the Ecophyto 2+ plan as you designed it. We have spoken too much, too treacherous, and listened too much to those who made us hesitate; Now we have to get results. We must create a European power capable of determining what is good and bad. It is necessary to move faster, but be careful not to fall into wars of wear and tear that would oppose people who have an interest in converging towards a common position. I believe deeply in an agroecological transition that frees us from phytopharmacy. The experience of INRA, which launched a first forward-looking "zero phyto" programme, shows that there is no taboo. We may one day admit that chemistry has only been a parenthesis in the history of world agriculture. This parenthesis must be lived in the respect of all stakeholders and in accordance with well-founded democratic and scientific rules, not in the wind of fratricidal opinions, moods and quarrels. Our country doesn't need that! I would like to stress one of the guidelines of the EGAs: group agriculture. It is an object of satisfaction that you have accepted an amendment of appeal and principle recalling what are the development groups, the cooperatives for the use of agricultural equipment, the CUMA, the associations that run our rural territories. The amendment recognizes its dignity and affirms its recognition by the Republic. Some thought these instances were folkloric or bohemian; to know them and to meet them, to have been at this school of technical and human life, I believe on the contrary that they represent a strength for our country, which we must cultivate and develop throughout the territory. On the other hand, I must regret, on behalf of the Socialist Group, that the reform of the cooperatives which you are undertaking – and which is justified – escapes Parliament too much. Of course, you have accepted that he should be involved in the steps – and we will be at the meeting – but we would have liked that through a law we would have taken the time to evoke the necessary transformation and modernisation of this cooperative space which represents one of the brands of the farm France, one of our prides, a model that we should export to Europe rather than trivialize it through globalisation. This model where a man equals a voice, which affirms that social capital prevails over economic capital, we must cultivate and strengthen it. This is what we are trying to defend under the CAPTE law; But we would have liked Parliament to be fully involved in this debate. I still have three proposals that we have put forward in the context of the EGAs. The first was to develop the naturalistic and civic culture around food. I must say, Minister, that I did not understand your rejection of the generalization of territorial food plans. Everywhere I travel, I see very positive dynamics: people get around the table to think about food chains, resources, circuit management, etc. In five to ten years, the State could rely on territorial food plans to cover the territory. It cost nothing, it was a new mission entrusted to the Regional Directorates of Food, Agriculture and Forestry, DRAAF, and I did not understand that you were careful about it. You were also shy about certifications. We could discuss the 20% or 30% threshold of organic products, but by trivializing the certification level 2 for the rest of the food and without giving quotas, you risk setting yourself objectives that are quite mediocre. In the long term, at least one HVE 3 certification, with adjustment time, or a mandatory rate of SIQO should be set. Otherwise, you may have 20% organic and everything else in HVE 2 certification. We come back from Occitanie where the Socialist Group was meeting on a parliamentary day. Carole Delga, president of the region, told us that she was targeting 40% bio in the canteens and that she was already getting results. How can Parliament be so much in step with regions that innovate very quickly? How can we exercise such caution – and under whose influence? –, while the volunteers get results and score points? The minimum, beyond the level of bio, would be to raise the level of requirement of the remaining 30%, otherwise we will not be on the rendezvous. If we give up the percentage of total food, we will have had more than a real lever of public health and change in agricultural production patterns. We have discussed many other issues; I will conclude with the most important of them, which were mentioned by Guillaume Garot. All the revolutions we are considering are impossible without justice. Thus, in trade negotiations at national level, an arbitrator is required, otherwise it is only a decoy. As rapporteur of the Sapin 2 Act, I saw all the arguments go through. Placed in the role of Jean-Baptiste Moreau, I have sometimes had to say no to proposals contrary to European law. But it is a measure, claimed by the profession, by all trade unions and by many parliamentarians, on the right as well as on the left, and even in the running Republic, which aims to allow the use of public indicators in the event of failure of negotiations, in the presence of Leonic reports or bad faith. If we do not strengthen the possibility of setting aside certain public indicators of arbitratorship when sector agreements are about to fail, the price of meat and milk may fall again. If we do not adopt this measure, which is necessary to put the clocks back on track and strengthen the true negotiating capacity of the producers, then we will not be at the meeting. We will not be at the meeting either, Minister – but perhaps it is still time – if you do not mobilize the first and second pillars of the CAP to help form producer organisations in our country on the scale of the processing and distribution giants facing them. I would like you to be able to use this lever of the CAP right now and to devote important resources to this issue. Otherwise, it will be like water on sand and trade negotiations will continue to crush all the added value gained by producers' efforts. The major associations of producer organisations, PDOs, public indicators, are the real levers that, within a country, can recreate cohesion, restore justice and allow us to be at the meeting. We deeply regret that you have not grasped these proposals, which we have defended with vigour and in a certain political diversity. It was the DNA of the Socialist Group, and we have expressed it every time. But all this will be in vain if our nation remains open to the bad winds of the world in what they have most liberal, destructive of human dignity and respect for producers. As we have said, Europe has resigned from the regulation of markets. Guillaume Garot has already explained this: for one litre of milk in ten potentially exported to the world – and we see the disappointments of many operators today in difficulty, because their drying units targeted mythical markets that are now collapsing – for this illusion of a world eldorado milk, we have ruined the regulatory mechanism that adapted the supply to demand and guaranteed that an Irish farmer was not competing with a Norman farmer, himself not competing with a Rennes or Hautes-Alpes breeder. How could this milk quota mechanism be abandoned? I say this again every time: every cent lost in value on the litre of milk – and there have been many cents lost because of this evil deregulation – made us lose 240 million euros, which must be put against the 9 billion of the CAP. Here too, regulation was at the service of the prosperity of farms and of justice for producers. Without the creation of new regulations, in forms to be invented, at the level of Europe and the world, in the treaties of the new generations, all our efforts are likely to be in vain. Without producer organisations, without public indicators, without regulation, in short without rules of the game, we will not succeed. For never will agriculture ever be an activity like any other; food will never be a commodity like any other, for its connection to the life of the planet and of each one of us is too intimate, too close. It cannot be treated as an ordinary commodity, delivered to the winds of the lure of gain and speculation in the short term. Yes, Europe must, according to its ethics, heritage and humanism, rebuild for the enterprise – we will defend it in the PACTE law in a few days – but also for agriculture, a model of social market economy, based on regulation, which combines public power and entrepreneurship. This model will have to guarantee our great shared dream: the assurance that every child in our country will receive the best of the food produced here or elsewhere, without ever letting us, for the poorest of us, enter into our homes products badly made by the poorest of us, who can reach the health of the planet and of the people. Building a globalization based on the right, on respect for nature, on a true relationship to the land: this is the great perspective of the generation of engineers and peasants before us. Our law can still be improved today thanks to specific amendments. I shall mention three of them, apart from the price indicators. There is one, minister, which you know very well: that of advertising for fat and sweetness for children, present on television, on tablets and all kinds of supports. We are told that the balance of these media depends on these advertisements. I refer to the subject without moral judgment since we had not acted in this direction in the last five years; I had proposed it, but the amendments had not been accepted. I think it's time. How can we explain to our children – or rather, given our age, to our grandchildren – that, for the sake of the balance of public or private channels, we have tolerated the manufacture and sale of food, of which we know that, among the least cultivated and economically less armed, it leads to diseases and pathologies which, from the age of ten or twelve, definitely mark the life of a human being? It's unbearable! There is a step to be taken in this direction in the discussions on nutritional quality. I was also pleased that Arnaud Viala once again raised the question of the earth. We are working on a great land law, but we know that when we announce it – if the President of the Republic has the will to do so – we will immediately accelerate, in the territory, these disorderly and disproportionate grabbing movements that irreversibly ruin our territories and our sectors. We need to take urgent measures – and we are proposing them – to avoid land degradation, because the consequences are irreversible. Finally, phytopharmacy causes victims and our country must, in line with the recommendations of a State report, set up a compensation fund for them. It is a heroic battle, led by Paul François, to whom I am thinking at this moment, by the association Phyto-Victimes; supported by all senators, who voted unanimously; voted by the Communist Group and the Insoumis; relayed by MODEM and by some Republicans; and I know that many walkers think about it. Minister, this is the time, in this bill, to take a step in this direction, so that, during the discussion of the Social Security Financing Bill, we are creating the pipes so that the MSA, the state budget and, for one thing, the abundance of phytopharmacy firms can be at the rendezvous of dignity and justice for these people who are victims of a system that we have collectively built and that needs to be repaired today. We owe it to the peasant world, in the name of the values that bring us together. These are the appointments that we can set ourselves for the coming law: they are within our reach. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The Socialist Group will fight each of these amendments, point by point, to draw this law upwards, to prevent disappointment that has invaded the profession and our campaigns from being fatal, so that we can straighten our heads and regain some hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u155	Excellent intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u156	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u157	The meeting was resumed. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u158	Minister, a spectre haunts this assembly – at least, I hope – that of ecological collapse, that of a non-reversible disaster. My first commitment is rather to the requirement of equality. As I always explain, in social matters, there are cycles: we have been in a bad cycle for thirty years, but we can hope that this will start again. In ecological matters, what is destroyed will not be rebuilt, there is no possible reversal: the melted glaciers will no longer be frozen, the forests of Amazonia will no longer be replaced. There's no reverse. During the holidays, I had borrowed audio books to occupy my kids, sitting in the back, on the roads of the Ardèche. Among other things, I borrowed a story from the Israeli novelist Amos Oz. The summary is simple: the animals have deserted a village. There's no animal in the village anymore. One could no longer see the slightest little cardonneret, there was no fish in the torrent. These were chandeliers that had not been seen there by insects or reptiles, not even bees, mosquitoes or moths. A strange silence reigned there all the time. The wild geese were not crisscrossing the empty sky. With my children sitting in the back, listening to this story, I was thinking: will they still see bees, cardonnets, wild geese? What about the children of my children? On vacation, I had two numbers in mind, which had resonated very loudly in the spring. The first is that we lost a third of the birds in our countryside in 30 years. This figure is a requisite. As for the second figure, it is worth a sentence: 80% less flying insects, still in 30 years. Thirty years is nothing, on the scale of humanity: it is hardly a generation – mine, yours – that destroyed this by its consumption, by its production. In this text of Amos Oz, there are marginals. Thus, Emanuela, the teacher, tries to maintain the memory of the animals. She makes the children make drawings, which she hangs on the walls of the school so that they remember what the animals looked like. She makes animals cry out. There is also Almon, the fisherman, who offers statuettes of squirrels, cranes, so that children still know what a butterfly, a fish, a chick looks like. But other adults prefer to keep quiet. They prefer to erase their crime, forget it. One evening, one of the children, Matti, took his courage with two hands and asked his father why the animals had disappeared from the village. This one takes his time before answering, he gets up from his stool and starts to take a hundred steps in the room, he hesitates, then he says to him: "So here you are, Matti. Some things have happened here, things that are not something to be proud of. But we are not all responsible, not to the same degree, at least. And then, who are you to judge us? You're too young. What right would you blame us for? You can't condemn adults. Besides, who told you about the animals? We just forgot, that's all! Don't think about it anymore, nobody wants to remember. Now, get me some potatoes in the cellar and stop talking so you don't say anything. Look, Matti, we're gonna pretend we never had this conversation, like we never talked about it. » My children still sitting on the back seat and listening to this story, I wondered if, in our turn, we should soon run away from this question. Will we, too, be overwhelmed by shame, by the guilt of having done nothing? You could, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, be overwhelmed by shame, because you know. You have the numbers, all the statistics, all the data of the disaster in progress! Less than 30% of birds in 30 years? You know that! Less 80 percent flying insects? You know that! Under earth, the number of lumbrics divided by ten? You know that! The earth is short: the equivalent of an artificialized department every ten years? You know that! Those who grow this land: half of the farmers who have disappeared in 20 years? You know that! This sneaky destruction, invisible and yet so rapid, of everything that lives in the air, on earth, underground or from the earth, you are the accomplices! You are the accomplices in your passivity, in the mediocrity of your project at this key moment in the history of humanity. Bruno Dufayet, of the National Bovine Federation, has come here to demand, I remind you, a new social contract between farmers and society. "What are we waiting for? He asked us. "You want the competition, the New Zealand model? We'll do it! A family farm, close by, that integrates animal welfare? We'll do it! You want everything at once? It is up to the French and you, the politicians, to set a course. » But on course, we're still looking for him, without finding him. What agriculture do you want? I think you're smart enough to tell us! In the last year I have been listening to you, I have still not understood what the course set for our farmers. In this bill, there is nothing or almost nothing: they are mediocre, stunted measures, technicalist tricks, not up to the current disaster, not up to the level of the social disaster, not up to the grandma of the general states of food, the fourteen workshops, thousands of hours of meeting. There is no ambition, no horizon, no direction. There are good intentions at best: the rise in the range of French agriculture is immediately undermined by a "at the same time", by agreements with Canada, MERCOSUR, Mexico, China, JEFTA, as if French agriculture were to be constantly open to the great winds of globalization, to take cows to a place to pass them to another corner of the globe – what Dominique Potier rightly calls a "shadok globalization", which seems completely absurd and which you nevertheless pursue. In my words, you don't find out anything. I keep telling you and telling you; Maybe it's the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth time we've played the same scenario. I radote and you listen to me more or less politely but, today, we are no longer alone, because another spectre haunts this assembly: that of Nicolas Hulot. He is not among us, he has never been in these debates, and I have always regretted him. Nor is his successor present, and his absence is a symbol. And yet, his ghost roams, he's behind you, he's watching us, he's listening to us, he's judging us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u159	[[Smile]] He's not dead!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u160	There's one word I like: scruple. Scrupulus, in Latin, is the small stone in the shoe. Nicolas Hulot is today a big stone in our conscience, too, about the content of this bill. That makes the bench of ministers a bench of the accused.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u161	Not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u162	Thank you, Mr. D.A.!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u163	On the radio, Nicolas Hulot said: "Did we begin to reduce the use of pesticides? The answer is no. Have we started to stop the erosion of biodiversity? The answer is no. Have we started to [stop] the artificialization of the soil? The answer is no. [...] I have not managed to create an complicity of vision with the Minister of Agriculture, when we have an absolutely exceptional opportunity to transform the agricultural model. [...] I cannot spend my time in quarrels with Stéphane Travert," adding that it is the dominant model that is the cause of the disaster. I would like to stress this absolutely exceptional opportunity. I believe, indeed, that it is a missed opportunity, a wasted opportunity when – and that is all the paradox – it is you, Minister, with the President of the Republic, who created this opportunity and gave this opportunity. And you didn't get it! You left her completely in the plan! Why? The industrialists and distributors, obliged to participate in these general statements of food, had granted concessions. Let us remember for example the words of Serge Papin, then P.D-G of Système U, who moderated the workshop of the general states devoted to the prizes: he indicated, before our committee, that in order to save French agriculture, to bring it to more quality, we would need guaranteed minimum prices. We need regulation in this country: agriculture has been the adjustment variable of the price war for about 30 years. Dominique Voynet, who hosted another workshop, told us that she too had the feeling of a missed opportunity because the industrialists were ready to let go a lot. According to her, there was nothing in the bill and it was a bit disappointing because the actors, industrialists, processors, distributors, who were not chickens of the year, expected to be imposed on them. They negotiated compromises. They advanced because they thought they were being beaten much harder. When we get there, there's nothing. So, of course, they're breathing, they're laughing. It was especially among farmers that I felt, during these discussions, that a space had opened up, that there was the possibility of moving towards a transformation, towards another ambition. In all those I have met, I have perceived a doubt; a doubt inhabited by both the ecological urgency, the feeling that the link with the rest of society was broken, that it had to be rewoven and that it required ecological measures, but also because they were no longer sure that this economic model would allow them to survive. I have heard them wonder about the meaning of their profession, about how to survive, about the link with society, about extremely rich discussions. One Jean-Luc, for example, told me: "In the beginning, we think that we work to feed people and then, with the help, we are so humiliated. Without the help, we can't survive. It's awful, we're dispossessed. I mean, I don't know, you feel that, too, that aid is humiliation. No? That's right! And to fight that, you have to set floor prices, guaranteed prices. According to the president of the MSA, we wonder in the campaigns about the meaning of the profession: what are we here to do? Many of his colleagues ask him, "Do we really need us? Are we really used to feed the population? This doubt undermines the agricultural world even more surely than poverty. To these men and women a little lost, you had the opportunity to set a course. The fruit was ripe for a more vigorous discourse. I do not ask you for a list of 117 measures to immediately get out of glyphosate, pesticides and go to agroecology, but for a speech that sets a course, a direction for the years to come, a speech that would be: "let's give up competition, let's give up protection, let's give up globalized prices, let's choose regulated prices to build a clear social contract, with an agriculture that first ensures our self-sufficiency, in order to safeguard the environment, to be attentive to animal welfare, to offer a healthy diet and to make producers live with dignity". On the radio, Nicolas Hulot said he did not understand that we were witnessing the gestation of a well-announced tragedy in a form of indifference. As for us, we understand too well that the Presidency of the Republic, the Government are in the hands of the oligarchy and that setting a course on agro-ecology would undermine the profits made by the masters of agro-industry, supermarkets, chemistry above all, the Bayer, Monsanto, BASF to whom here, in this Chamber, you have offered the secret of business. But this indifference goes beyond and is anchored in society. According to psychiatrist François Tosquelles, whom I love very much, "men, women and children at all costs seek some security, even at the cost of ignorance, denial of what they know very well. You're quieter when you don't know." He mentioned death, I believe, but it also applies to ecology, as if it contained our death to all, as if we preferred not to know even if we know. There is, at last, at the origin of this indifference a deep feeling of impotence: what can we, little man, little deputy, little minister, perhaps? What can be done to deal with the scale of the ecological issue? We can see very clearly that it is a massive transformation that would be necessary. Where to start? Whether it is agriculture, but also transport, the energy of industry, the task before us seems to be pro-Methean. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and Socialist and related groups]] The role of politics is to affirm that it is possible, to lift the mountains of discouragement, in us and in society. It's possible, it's still possible; It's possible today and it'll be possible tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u164	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-12-E2002.u165	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Further to the discussion, on further reading, of the bill on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all. The meeting is adjourned.
