ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Marie-George Buffet and Mrs Huguette Bello and others to combat women's job insecurity (No 586, 685).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u2	Mrs Huguette Bello, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u3	Mr President, the Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament, the President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, 129 of 144: this is the sad place occupied by France, the cradle of equality and the homeland of Olympe de Gouges, in terms of equal pay. This disconcerting situation results in women's wages being 25.7 per cent lower on average than men's. Three major sets of factors are advanced to explain such a discrepancy. Firstly, those linked to the choice of training courses and trades, as well as to the clichés associated with them. Although they are the majority in higher education – 60% in master's studies, for example – young girls are paradoxically minority in the selective or scientific fields, which are also the most remunerative. It is therefore necessary to find inequalities formed from the outset and not during the course of a career. A second set of factors relates to working time, which has become the stumbling block for occupational equality. In fact, 82 per cent of part-time employees are women, which results mechanically in lower wages, degraded career paths and weakened social rights, particularly in the area of retirement pensions. The third set of cases is... an absence of explanatory factors! On an equivalent basis and with equal working hours, there is still a residual wage gap of 10%. Yes, despite the legislative advances and the protection exercised by the judge, work of equal value still does not give rise to the same remuneration depending on whether you are a woman or a man! Each of these sets of factors has a direct impact on the persistence and sometimes even the increase in occupational inequalities between women and men. But their common impact, when these factors interact, leads even more to multiplying the negative effects on the situation of women. These factors lead, in particular, to move the horizon away from equal pay a little more each year. According to the World Economic Forum, this equality would not be achieved until 2234, 47 more years compared to last year's forecast! Joint and comprehensive action on all these factors is therefore essential. We take note of the Government's commitment to deconstructing the patterns that lead to these inequalities, including at school and in career development, as part of the action plan announced by the Secretary of State for Gender Equality. We also welcome the ambition of the Minister of Labour to eliminate, during the quinquennium, the 10 per cent wage gap that persists at work of equal value. Unfortunately, therefore, one of the three factors contributing to occupational inequalities is not addressed in the public debate: the one relating to working hours, and part-time work in particular. Here I wish to affirm a deep conviction, never denied in the course of my successive commitments: the eight laws adopted over the last thirty years, the major plans and the solemn declarations have not remedied inequalities, because the three sets of factors have never been combated simultaneously. I express the unfortunate bet that, without taking part-time into account, the other two action plans for the future will not achieve their objectives in terms of occupational equality. The bill that I have before me this morning is precisely about responding to it by bringing the missing link in working hours. I assume the deliberate choice not to multiply the entry points and to provide a concrete response to a precariousness still largely suffered: that resulting from part-time work. Of course, it is not in the air of time to supervise part-time work. Competitiveness of enterprises, destruction of jobs – yet not delocalised –, non-employment, work in the dark, respect for collective bargaining... There is no shortage of arguments to refuse to intervene on parttime work, even when it turns against employees. It is also not a good tone to stress that the comprehensive labour law reforms undertaken in recent years have made part-time work the root of occupational inequalities and precariousness. Moreover, it is perhaps inappropriate to point out that part-time work, especially when it is experienced, has become one of the main vectors of inequality for women. Yet the figures are there, overwhelming, with their sad procession of employees trapped in a spiral of precariousness. But these employees are not shadows! We cross them every day in the workplace, and in the very walls of our assembly! Therefore, do not close the debate, ladies and gentlemen, and recognize here together and sincerely that the subject of occupational inequality must be debated and corrected. The proposal for a law that I am presenting today, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, is based on a simple principle: words will always be too weak to talk about inequality between women and men. It is therefore necessary to take concrete action on the basis of the situations of law and fact which are now the most precarious. The latest reforms have only worsened a situation which penalizes the employees concerned on a daily basis. The systematic circumvention of the guarantees of part-time work can be seen both by law and by facts. As far as the right is concerned, the 24 hour floor, the minimum weekly part-time period set by the social partners in 2013, has taken water. The new hierarchy of standards has devoted the reference of this floor to collective bargaining; However, only one branch chose not to lower it. Each year, publications show that an increasing number of branches are derogating from the 24-hour base, in unsustainable proportions. Paradigmatic example, the branch of social and family actors allows the conclusion of part-time contracts for a duration of only 1 hour a week! In addition, six branches now allow contracts of a minimum duration of 2 hours. The guarantees that the legislator had sought to provide for part-time work therefore seem to be largely distorted, to the extent that the use of these contracts today constitutes, in many cases, indirect discrimination against part-time employees in general, and women in particular. This places France in a situation that is clearly contrary to European Union law. I will therefore introduce an amendment to include in the Labour Code the principle of illegality of indirect discrimination, which will be particularly applicable in the context of part-time work. This bill makes four concrete proposals to respond, without further delay, to this alarming situation. It is a matter of leaving statements of principles or batteries of legislative and regulatory measures that do not apply; to counteract the structural or even abusive use of part-time work; to re-establish the logic behind the legal basis of 24 hours without reverting to the confidence given to collective bargaining; to eliminate inequalities between employees: there is no justification to tolerate a break in equality between full-time and part-time employees with regard to the increase in overtime;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u5	... and finally to put an end to the mishap which has taken place in the part-time labour market, where the additional hours, most often without any increase, are trivialised. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I can only regret that none of these proposals have been echoed in the discussion of the text in the Committee on Social Affairs. When the urgency to act does not gather any echo, when serious questions are left open, it is the door wide open to bitterness and anger. What's worse than silence, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about women's job insecurity? Let's debate articles, adjust the parameters, modify the editorials but let's get out of the certainties, go beyond the sad alternatives between unemployment and precariousness! That is why I invite you to support the fight against women's job insecurity by voting on this text. His discussion today, Thursday, 8 March, International Women's Rights Day, is a happy invitation to take our responsibilities together...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u6	Let's go from speech to action!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u7	[["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] ...and to prefer, as Victor Hugo invites us, to respond to his conscience rather than to the instructions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u8	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u9	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u10	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that we all share the point made here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u11	But...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u12	We all share your ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u13	But...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u14	We all share the demand that you have borne with the talent that we know you, dear rapporteur. We share your will to act. But...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u15	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u16	... I say to you from the very beginning of my remarks: the Government does not share the path you are proposing, simply, and I will endeavour to demonstrate this to you, because it would be contrary to the objective that we are pursuing together. It is therefore pointless to oppose this fight, which must bring us all together, when we must always ensure that we are as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u17	Well? Let's get together today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u18	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Let's hear, for starters, I think it would be a good way to work together! First of all, allow me to thank you, the rapporteur, and your group, for putting this bill as the first text on the agenda of this Thursday, 8 March, International Women's Rights Day – since it is unfortunately to be recalled. This initiative offers the opportunity for the national representation to participate actively in this day, discussing...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u19	That'd be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u20	...the most effective means to combat the inequalities and job insecurity which, as you said, still suffer too many of our fellow citizens. The fight for equality between women and men is more than ever a necessity, which you have described very well, at a time when many are wondering about the practical implementation of the main fundamental principles of our law, which should be obvious. In terms of education, political representation, wealth, health and employment – we could unfortunately extend the list – there is a clear gap between the equality enshrined in the law and the reality lived on a daily basis. The fact that you have recalled, Madam rapporteur, is instructive. While the Roudy Act is 35 years old, criminal and financial sanctions exist, which average 0.52 per cent of the wage bill, the wage gap between women and men is still 27 per cent. This is due in large part to the fact that women do not have access to the same careers and jobs as men and the persistence of sexist stereotypes, which are transmitted from childhood onwards, leading to gender-biased orientation. In hierarchical terms, only 17 per cent of women hold leadership positions; 42% of them are executives. On the other hand, their contracts are often more precarious, since 30 per cent of women employees are part-time, as you said, compared to only 8 per cent of men. Finally, there is this unbearable inequality: for equal work, the wage difference between women and men, as everyone knows, is still 9%. In the face of such inequalities, the Government, like the national representation as a whole, wants to act decisively to guarantee women and men the same rights. Let me recall that, during his campaign, the current President of the Republic has intended to make this fight for equality a major national cause. It is precisely as a result of this commitment that, in addition to the governmental actions that have already been launched, an interministerial committee on women's rights is being held at this very moment, with the assistance of the Minister of Labour – you suspect that if this had not been the case, she would be present with you. So, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, the Government is fully at your side in this fight against the protein inequalities that block the advancement of women's careers, and hence their ability to determine their professional future by themselves. It is therefore guided by this ambition, but also driven by a desire for efficiency, that the proposals for legislative amendments that you wish to introduce should be evaluated. Beyond words, let's take the facts one by one and treat them. On the basis of the fact that women are overrepresented, you want to limit the use of part-time contracts, in particular by significantly increasing its cost, in order to influence the behaviour of economic actors in favour of redeployment towards full-time employment. However, this bet on higher labour costs is extremely risky, because employers, especially in sectors that are highly exposed to international competition, will be forced to find alternatives to the harmful consequences for the women we want to protect. Because these employers, unable to pass on the rise in labour costs to the final price of their products, will face the dilemma: either hire differently, using temporary employment, or no longer hire in France. This could even encourage them to resort to increased robotics for these positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u21	What about service jobs, what do so many women do? They can't be relocated!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u22	What if we talk about the cost of capital?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u23	I think, Mr. Coquerel, that you will have the opportunity to speak,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u24	If we continue the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u25	...and we'll listen to you carefully, unless I'm lost in a part of Candy crush. I propose to listen, which is a way of working together, rather than denouncing one another.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u26	To listen and work together, we must not make a motion to refer to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u27	What matters is efficiency. And, I tell you, the main victims of the boomerang effect of your measures will be women, who will then plunge into the precariousness of mass unemployment. Now, Madam rapporteur, you know better than I do this quote from Simone de Beauvoir on the work and emancipation of women: "it is work that can only guarantee her a concrete freedom". In addition, your measures deal in an undifferentiated manner with part-time work, which is a factor of job insecurity, and with part-time work, which is a factor for reconciling work and private life. This ability to choose should not be overlooked. On this point, I note a certain inconsistency with Article 3 of your colleague Pierre Dharréville's bill on the recognition of the role of carers, of which we know that most of them are women. Therefore, it appears that your bill would not only not bring the solution that we want to bring together to stem women's job insecurity, but that it would degrade the subtle balance that the Government is trying to establish in favour of growth rich in jobs for which the work done pays.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u28	It must be too subtle for us to understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u29	In these circumstances, the Government can only express an opinion that is unfavourable to the adoption of this text, which, moreover, would reduce the opportunities for our fellow citizens to reconcile their professional and private lives, while we have just encouraged it by introducing a right to telework in the ordinances. The Government is convinced that, in order to promote equal pay and to combat women's job insecurity, laws and sanctions are not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u30	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u31	Otherwise, everything would have been settled for many years. We obviously need to change our mindsets. Companies must realize that respect for equal pay is not a barrier to competitiveness but a real potential for talent attraction and economic development. In this change of mindset to which we call, social dialogue will play its full role of reconciling economic performance with social progress. In this regard, several actions have been undertaken by the Ministry of Labour and the State Secretariat for Equality between Women and Men. In addition to a guide for SMEs and TPEs, which employ 55% of employees, consultations with the social partners and the human resources directorates have been conducted to address the subject from all its angles, understand the obstacles and identify good practices. These consultations, ladies and gentlemen, concluded yesterday with a multilateral meeting chaired by the Prime Minister. Of the 15 measures announced, in addition to those relating to the fight against gender-based and sexual violence, 10 are specifically aimed at eliminating unjustified wage differentials and advancing professional equality between women and men. Thus, without quoting them exhaustively, I would like to point out here that we intend to move from an obligation of means to an obligation of result in terms of equal pay, by measuring unjustified wage differentials in a transparent way – because transparency is always the best way to fight – and by penalising them if they persisted on 1 January 2022. An obligation of transparency will thus be laid down for companies on their equal pay results, by publishing unexplained wage differentials on their website and by accessing these data, the category of posts by category of post, the elected representatives of the Social and Economic Committee and the trade union delegates. The State will, of course, ensure that the law is respected: we will increase by four checks on the labour inspectorate, from an average of 1730 to 7,000 checks per year in the field of equality between women and men, which is one of the four priorities of the labour inspectorate. In addition, for listed companies, we are responsible to the executive heads on the principle of "applying equality or explaining", through a deliberation of the remuneration committee and the board of directors on the results of equal pay. In addition, for these same companies, we will make mandatory the annual information of the board of directors on the mix in the top 100 of the company's management. Each branch will also have to report on its work on occupational equality in its annual report. This action is precisely in line with the changes undertaken by the ordinances reforming the Labour Code. Because by ratifying them a few weeks ago, you strengthened professional equality, ladies and gentlemen. They strengthen trading capacity in companies and industries. This means that everyone will be able to take up this issue more easily, for example through greater access to data on the situation of the company, or by the fact that the social partners are encouraged to define occupational equality as the subject of codecision in the event of a move to the works council. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore through the commitment of these profound transformations of our social model that we will make live the republican ideal on which it has built itself. These changes are already under way through the measures taken by the Government to reform the labour market, which will ultimately strengthen equality between women and men. It is through the mobilization of all at all levels that this equality will be a reality, both for our fellow citizens and for our fellow citizens. It will be through this commitment of daily life and through this permanent mobilization of each and every one of us, aiming at the same ideal and the same requirement of equality, that we will advance French society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u32	Mrs Marie-George Buffet spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u33	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the International Women's Rights Day, which is taking place today, makes sense only if it highlights the daily struggle of millions of women around the world to uphold their rights and stop the violence and all the discrimination they face. This fight for equality between women and men has been at the heart of the public debate for the past few months, which is an event of great significance. The words are released, the women dare to denounce their attackers, the harassers no longer act with impunity. But the road is still long so many obstacles for women who are victims of gender-based violence: feelings of shame, social and economic pressures, questioning their testimonies. But our country is slowly becoming aware of all physical and psychological violence against women from an early age. Feminist struggle is more necessary than ever, and it is our duty, as parliamentarians, representatives and representatives of the nation, to support women and do everything we can to ensure that this fight does not fall back. Let us mobilize today and tomorrow to drive from our society patriarchal domination, which is the source of so much inequality and suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, words, declarations of intent and speeches are not enough and should not mask a lack of concrete action. When one declares a national cause, in this case equality between men and women, one has an obligation of result. We must work hard to achieve equality between women and men through laws and strong actions. That is what the GDR Group has done with the legislation we are proposing today. As a result of collective work with associations, social partners and labour law specialists, our bill aims to combat women's job insecurity and wage inequality, one of the major areas of discrimination against women in our country. I would particularly like to welcome the excellent work done by the rapporteur, Huguette Bello, who has led to a legally sound report and a sound text that is socially just and economically reasonable. That's what I call action. We take our responsibilities by simultaneously tackling one of the main factors of wage inequality, the prevalence of part-time work and precarious employment among women. As I said in the preamble, the words of women have risen to denounce the violence they face on a daily basis: they must rise with the same force in the face of inequalities in the world of work. The underlying causes of these wage inequalities are the same as for other forms of discrimination and violence against women: they relate to the very structure of our society and to the cultural integration of the division of roles between men and women. It is the ancient idea, but one that still marks our society of the 21st century, that women should be at home and that men should take care of the things of the city. Thus, this patriarchal domination continues to irradiate all spheres of life, at home as well as at work or in public space. Wage inequality is a major component of discrimination against women, especially in France, our country having particularly unworthy results in this area. The figures are eloquent and alone justify the introduction of much more stringent laws. Even today, as Huguette Bello has shown, the wage gap between women and men is 25.6%, all contracts combined. For full-time jobs only, this rate is 16%. The most troubling thing is that in a position, skills, experience and geographical area, in short, under totally similar conditions, a woman earns 10% less than her male colleague. All these figures result in our position of 129thir 144 countries in the ranking of professional equality established by the World Economic Forum. Years go by and equal pay laws pile up, but these figures remain almost identical in their mediocrity. In the face of this reality, which no one can deny, there are two possible attitudes: either we do nothing more, by relying on the goodwill of companies, or we act as legislator to say, "Stop, that's enough! "
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u35	The Minister of Labour initially chose the first option. Last January, it declared that there was no need for legislation and that it was necessary to rely on the awareness of companies and their good will to ensure that everyone took the appropriate measures. That is not my opinion, it is not the opinion of the GDR Group, and, as I know, it is not the opinion of many actors in the world of work. But I see, according to the announcements made yesterday, that we will have to go through the law and I welcome it. When it comes to violence, to severely punish sexual assault and abuse, everyone accepts the need for the law. Why then should we have the hand that shakes when it comes to fighting wage inequality and women's job insecurity? Let us not be afraid of binding arrangements when we have to face patriarchal domination and capitalist exploitation! To live up to our republican motto demands it. Wage inequality is explained by two main factors. The first is cultural: for decades, the idea that a woman's work was worth less than that of a man has been incorporated. This was the result of the ideology that accompanied the entry of women into the labour market and considered that their work should only be an additional wage. According to this ideology, women do not contribute the main source of household income and work part-time, as it is to them that, of course, domestic work and the upbringing of children comes about. The second factor is the very structure of the labour market and the position of women in the workplace. Women, by the nature of jobs and qualifications, are much more subject to forced part-time work and therefore to job insecurity. Three quarters of the working poor are women workers. The figures are once again eloquent: 82 per cent of part-time employees are women, more than a third of them report being subjected to it and, in the end, 9.4 per cent of women are in a precarious situation. Since part-time work is one of the factors contributing to wage inequality, it is necessary to regulate the use of this form of employment and to pay workers who are subject to precarious contracts, in particular those who work less than 24 hours a week. Thus, we submit four articles of law to your vote. We propose to reduce company burden reductions in the event of a massive use of part-time work, to increase the wages of those who work less than 24 hours a week, to increase the additional hours of part-time workers to 25%, and to increase the precariousness premium for part-time fixed-term contracts. These incentive and increased purchasing power mechanisms for women and men in precarious situations respond to the urgent need to take concrete action and no longer be content with declarations of intent. Non-binding schemes do not work, nor the goodwill of companies. We know this, because despite many laws in favour of professional equality, the figures are stagnating. It's time to be realistic. Moreover, the latest laws weakening the labour code have only slowed progress towards equal pay or even reduced it. We alerted you about this. When reducing employee protections and corporate obligations, it is not surprising that this has a negative impact on equal pay. The findings of the Higher Council for Occupational Equality between Women and Men are without appeal: the latest reforms of the Labour Code have weakened legislative mechanisms to promote equal pay. The 2016 labour law and recent labour orders have weakened negotiations on wage inequality, by reassuring them and by not making it compulsory to hold specific negotiations, and above all by loosening the framework for part-time work and encouraging the use of precarious jobs. To this is added the weakening of the labour inspectorate. We must stop playing with people's lives and disorganize everything in the name of the flexibility and competitiveness of companies. Part-time work and precarious employment are an exacerbated form of exploitation, in no case a lesser evil. Labour contracts should be strictly regulated, the duration of which is only a few hours per week. That is why we propose to increase the cost of hours worked below a 24 hour weekly threshold. This is how we defend the work: by paying it properly and by fighting against the precariousness of the employees. As you can see, by fighting against women's job insecurity, we fight against that of all employees and contribute to the well-being of society. The human, the human still, the human still, this is our guideline, our reason to act. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, on this day of March 8 you are trying to lure a debate on the fight against wage inequality by defending a motion for dismissal. Not a single amendment to our text. Not a single alternative proposal. No debates. No vote. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I do not even ask you to vote in favour of the text, even if I very much wish it. I simply ask you to respect the work of our group and above all to respect the women who are insecure by taking, not much, the time to give your opinion, explain your opposition and propose an alternative. But why bother with a debate when it is so much easier to support a referral motion? [[Vif applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] Colleagues, the total flexibilisation of the labour market and precarious jobs are incompatible with equal pay. We never saw March 8 as a commemoration, as the only day to talk about women, but as one day to fight for women's rights. That is the meaning of this bill, and we would be happy to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u36	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u37	We are led to vote on a bill which, by its title, sets itself the ambition to combat women's job insecurity. But the real purpose of the provisions of this text is to tackle part-time work, considering, in part, that it is imposed on women by enterprises and the world of work. The rapporteur, we fully share the fight for real equality between women and men, but on this bill we are particularly puzzled. Women are indeed much more affected by part-time work than men. At the birth of the first child, it is very common for women to stop working or reduce their hours. Cases where men make up their working hours are much less frequent. In the event of separation, women take far more time than men to return to their standard of living, in particular because they have accepted a more disjointed career path, which also results in a low level of their retirement pensions. [[Rires on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] If we find ourselves on the record of women's job insecurity, we are more dubious about the measures you propose: is part-time work freely chosen by some not induced by patriarchal and cultural reflexes, by a social obligation or by a sense of maternal or marital duty? In these circumstances, the shrinking access to part-time work that you are proposing would simply lead some women to give up the labour market even more.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u38	It's pathetic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u39	What, then, must be our fight, our responsibility as legislators and legislators in the fight against women's job insecurity, in order to achieve real equality between women and men, today in this symbolic 8 March?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u40	You live above ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u41	Candy's land!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u42	We consider that many women still suffer the weight of gender determinism whose conscious and unconscious foundations are shared by a large part of the population. We all need to work to deconstruct this habitus, the only way to hope for real equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u43	It's not a habitus problem, it's exploitation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u44	It goes, of course, through education, but not only. It is essential that we also focus our efforts on improving the place and representation of women in the public space. Madam rapporteur, in this area, I know the work that has been done by the people before us, and Mrs Buffet has actively contributed to it as a member of the government. I am of course thinking of the law on gender balance in elected office, whether national or territorial. Without it, it is likely that because of mental barriers, my candidacy would have seemed inappropriate, if not illegitimate, to some: I am the first female MP in the constituency that I represent and I think we are numerous in this case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u45	Yes. We're trying to honor it...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u46	Women, when they were on an equal footing in municipal councils and had access to executive functions, were able to feel much more legitimate to engage in politics, as public affairs no longer appeared as a matter of men. The political world must be exemplary on this issue and that is what we are trying to do: the government of the new majority is equal, like the one that preceded it, and real equality between women and men has been declared a major national cause for 2018. This fight for equality in politics has therefore been partly won, even though, I concede to you, there are still margins of progress, but it has been a long time because mentalities take time to evolve, despite the laws. Inequalities remain present everywhere: in higher education institutions, in the world of work, in sport, where wage inequality is striking... Anyway, we still have so much to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u47	More reason to start today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u48	The legislative arsenal that already exists in this area must prompt us to question the desirability of legislating at all costs. Rather, we must ask ourselves why the laws voted here are not being respected, especially in the world of work where inequalities are evident.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u49	Because they're not binding!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u50	Because there aren't enough labour inspectors!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u51	Because there are no sanctions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u52	Yesterday the Government brought together the social partners to encourage them to make strong commitments on this issue. There is a need for more and more women to have access to positions of responsibility in the business world and for equal pay to be real and concrete. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As you can see, we share with you a common fight on which we can have several points of agreement. However, we remain particularly reserved on the proposal you are submitting to us this morning. Let us not be mistaken about fighting: we will not reduce gender-based occupational inequalities by legislating on part-time work. We need to change attitudes in depth, both men and women, about their representation of their social role.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u53	Who can do the least!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u54	There won't have been one argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u55	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u56	What better symbol, on this international day of women's rights, than to consider a text designed to combat women's job insecurity?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u57	This must not remain a symbol!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u58	As a member of the delegation of the National Assembly to women's rights and equal opportunities between women and men, I consider this subject to be central, as it is for the Republican Group. As soon as he had the opportunity, my group put forward proposals to move forward in this fight for equality between women and men, as with the Copé-Zimmermann law of 2011.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u59	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u60	It is an essential subject for the proper functioning of our society. Women and men must be equal in all matters, including professional matters. The pursuit of this goal on all these benches has indeed resulted in abundant legislative production: the Roudy Act of 1983, the Genisson Act of 2001, reinforced by the 2006 Equal Pay Act, the 2008 Constitutional Act, the 2011 Act already mentioned, and the 2014 Equality Act. It must be noted that France has not been an efficient legislative authority for three decades in order to enshrine this constitutional principle of equality between women and men! What is the finding, after all these legislative developments? Inequalities continue. In France in 2018, there is still an average net wage gap of about 19% between women and men, 10% of whom remain totally unexplained. In France in 2018, while women are more likely to graduate, they are more likely to experience unemployment and part-time work: 28.4% of working women without children are part-time compared to 9% of men. That is the reality of the figures. While wage differentials tend to narrow, although they remain far too high, the use of part-time work has only increased over the last 30 years, from 8% in 1975 to 18% in 2012. Between 1982 and 2016, the share of women working part-time increased from 18 to 30.6 per cent. Finally, women now account for 80 per cent of part-time work, although this form of employment is not always experienced. Thus, 82% of part-time employees in the retail trade are satisfied with their working hours. This situation of persistent inequality despite our laws is unacceptable. Yet this is the sociological, economic and cultural reality of our labour market. The recent orderly reform of the Labour Code was necessary. I regret, however, that it has dealt very little with the issue of equality between women and men, and not always in the right direction. The provisions on part-time work and occupational equality will now be dealt with at the branch level. This is a clear and responsible answer to these questions. But two measures deserve special attention. The first concerns atypical working hours, a subject which no longer falls within the scope of the branch, even though it is the major defect in part-time work. The second concerns the economic and social database, which will now be able to ignore certain issues, including that of part-time female employees. We must remain vigilant and attentive on these two points and not hesitate to return to them if the need arises. The action of the Government seems paradoxical to me, Secretary of State. In the ordinances, you have in fact dropped the ballast with regard to the diagnosis of a comparative situation, by relegating all the indicators to the level of the supplementary provisions in the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u61	Right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u62	They are no longer of public order and companies can now pick up at their own discretion among a battery of indicators. However, today, several months later, in this forum, you are referring to the possibility of a fine equal to 1% of the wage bill in the event that wage inequalities are not eliminated after three years. I take note of this, but it leaves the feeling of a contradiction. How can inequalities be addressed if the diagnosis is wrong or not at all? I will remain very vigilant on this point. As you see, the rapporteur, we share your observation and your fight for equality between women and men. Despite this, we do not fully share your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u63	Disgust!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u64	We Republicans assume that we have fought against the introduction of a minimum threshold of 24 hours for part-time contracts. In view of the number of derogations that have been introduced, we can only note that we were right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u65	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u66	It is an ideological measure of a socialist government and majority, probably taken with the laudable intention of fighting against precarization but which is in fact inapplicable and increases the precariousness of the people concerned. For example, the professional branches, which have the right to negotiate their own minimum working hours, have mostly fixed periods well below 24 hours. Even Pôle Emploi negotiated a minimum duration of 3 hours 45 weekly! Through your bill, you want to impose a minimum threshold of 24 hours on businesses. We cannot follow this logic. It is necessary to tackle the root causes of the problem, the part-time nature of the problem, and not the consequences, otherwise the law may be detrimental to employment. You also wish, Madam rapporteur, to introduce penalties, by reducing the general reduction of social security contributions on low wages. Our group is not opposed to financial sanctions. It is often by attacking the wallet that we manage to move the lines. Thus, the Woerth Act of 9 November 2010 provides for a penalty of up to 1% of the wage bill, applicable to companies with less than fifty employees not covered by an agreement or an action plan on occupational equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u67	No one can apply that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u68	However, even if we agree with this principle, the consequences of the proposed measure seem disproportionate to us, in particular because of the lack of distinction between the sectors of activity and their related constraints. Part-time work sometimes meets organizational requirements specific to certain sectors, such as cleanliness or retail trade. In other sectors, increasing the cost of work will encourage illegal work, as you yourself have pointed out, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u69	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u70	We therefore support a change in the scope of the proposed penalties, which would exempt certain sectors in which part-time work is unfortunately unavoidable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u71	He's on the right...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u72	Members of the Republicans group prefer to approach the subject in the other direction. We want to introduce an urgent tax and social exemption from overtime and overtime, which will not only create purchasing power for employees, especially those who work part-time, but also strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises. We will also need to be able to make proposals in the context of the examination of the future law on vocational training. This must be thought of for all audiences, especially women whose part-time work is under way. We must help those who are in job fragility to stabilize and consolidate their employability and their employment situation. Your bill, the rapporteur, is entitled "Combating women's job insecurity". It mainly deals with part-time work. Yes, combating forced, forced, part-time work is a matter of social justice and citizen equity. However, I am not convinced that it is by tackling the competitiveness of our economy that we will achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u73	It's about getting women's skills recognized!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u74	Your bill allows for debate. We share the message of your parliamentary initiative, but not the answers. As you have been able to measure in the light of today's topicality, ladies and gentlemen, civil society is mobilizing widely and in its diversity on the subject of professional equality between women and men and is formulating ideas and proposals that feed into the debate. We must all work together, on all sides of this House, on a new and important law for the promotion of professional equality between women and men. We must bring together our skills and ideas, within the framework of our common values, in order to promote this essential fight for a more just society. The subject of equality between women and men does not belong to a particular camp. It is our role as parliamentarians to address this issue. The principle of equality between women and men has been enshrined in the Constitution since 1946 and is one of the priorities of the quinquennium. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam rapporteur, I have heard your call and share your enthusiasm. Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, I extend my hand to you so that the majority of whom you are a member and the opposition can meet around a table and propose, during the quinquennium, a great consensus law to put an end to this injustice that persists in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u75	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u76	First of all, I would ask the rapporteur to excuse my late submission of her report. On this international day of women's rights, it is opportune for our Assembly to debate the subject of women's job insecurity, as long as the path is still long to achieve full equality, especially economic, between women and men. The proposal for a law of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left is based on the fact that part-time work is usually a time spent, with reduced remuneration and therefore insufficient to cope with the burdens of everyday life. It also finds its justification in the fact that part-time work usually affects women. The reality of the figures confirms this context. Of the 4.6 million part-time employees, 3.7 million are women, or 82 per cent. And 31 per cent of employed women work part-time, compared to only 7 per cent of men. Finally, two thirds of the working poor are women. Of course, for several decades, society has evolved. The increased availability of childcare, contraception and the level of schooling of girls has allowed women to gradually take up their full place in working life. However, they continue to be a major contributor to household chores and are at the forefront of child-rearing. In most cases, women are employed in occupations which are not highly valued by men, in sectors of activity which are less well paid and which are characterised by increased job insecurity. I would like to point out that in France, according to data from the Conseil supérieur de l'égalité professionnelle entre les femmes et les hommes, a woman earns an average of 27% less than a man all contracts combined and receives, on an equal basis, a lower wage of almost 10%. Part-time work is not always a choice. This is due in particular to the characteristics of certain sectors of activity in which women are the majority. According to INSEE, 32% of women working part-time are part-time workers. In 2015, for example, 9.4 per cent of women were underemployed despite their desire to work more. In addition, even if a job for a few years is chosen for the care of children, it is not always in full knowledge of the consequences of this in terms of the creation of rights, the impairment of the career path and the difficulty of re-entering the world of work after a period of sometimes very long time devoted to the upbringing of children, especially if a divorce occurs in the meantime. It is therefore appropriate to recommend that within each employing structure, persons choosing to work part-time should be given a projection of the impact of this choice on their post-retirement entitlements, so that this decision can be taken with full knowledge of the facts. In addition, according to a study by DARES – the direction of the animation of research, studies and statistics – women in precarious jobs are less satisfied with their working lives than women in stable careers. On average, they report more that they will have to change trades or professions in the next three years. They also show less satisfaction with their jobs and report more unpredictable changes to which they are poorly prepared. The bill we are looking at is designed to discourage the use of part-time work by making its cost less attractive, in order to encourage employers to make more use of full-time work. While the objective and intent are laudable, the members of the Modem and related group believe that the proposed solutions will not bring significant improvements to the situation of the women concerned. Indeed, there is a risk that employers may choose to hire otherwise, with a preference for acting at the CDI, or not hiring at all, rather than hiring full-time, as expected. The provisions of the proposed legislation can therefore be counterproductive. It should also be borne in mind that part-time work, in some cases, is actually chosen. Consequently, excessive taxation would limit the opportunities for part-time employment, particularly useful for students. The Government has made equality between men and women a priority objective of the quinquennium, especially in the professional world. While wage inequality is partly due to part-time work, only a set of measures will reduce precarious work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u77	So make proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u78	Secretary of State Marlène Schippa and Minister Muriel Pénicaud have recently presented a good practice guide for the use of TPEs and SMEs, entitled "My company is committed". It helps to combat stereotypes, to promote the development of action plans for occupational equality and to equip PETs and SMEs wishing to engage in an approach of equality between men and women. The commitment of companies to greater equality must indeed continue. While 42 per cent of managers are women, less than half of them, they are only 17 per cent in managerial positions, and their salaries are often lower than those of their male counterparts. Similarly, while the Copé-Zimmerman Act obliges listed companies and companies with more than 500 permanent employees to have 40 per cent women on their boards of directors, this ceiling should be raised to 50 per cent and the threshold for the application of the law should be lowered. As long as women are not in a position to influence the conditions reserved for them, they will not be sufficiently protected. Access to training is also essential to enable women to be more in charge of their professional future. The measures relating to vocational training recently announced by the Minister of Labour take into account the difficulties faced by women working part-time, in particular by granting them the same training rights as full-time employees. For example, a part-time female employee will have her personal training account credited with 500 euros a year, like her colleagues working full-time. Combating precarious work is also a means of reducing the psychosocial risks faced by women, who are also more vulnerable than men when they feel less valued. Women in precarious employment are more complaining about hostile and degrading behaviour in their careers. The draft law to combat gender-based and sexual violence that will be introduced in the coming months will have to take into account what these women may suffer during their working lives. Any debate that might change the situation would be welcome. In particular, the proposal to include in the Labour Code the Law of 27 May 2008 on various provisions adapting to Community law in the field of combating discrimination deserves our attention, as it could help to equip the defence of victims of discrimination, especially indirect discrimination, who are insufficiently armed to defend their rights. However, the bill does not seem to us to be likely to produce the desired beneficial effects. Unless we can vote on it as it stands, we will support the referral of the text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u79	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u80	That's not good! We must work in the Chamber on 8 March, not in committee later!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u81	[[Applause on the MODEM benches and several REM benches]] Finally, as we are discussing women's job insecurity today, I would like to recall the words of Benoîte Groult: "To all those who live in the illusion that equality is acquired and that history does not go back, I would like to say that nothing is more precarious than women's rights".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u82	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u83	Words, words!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u84	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u85	Today, as part of the day reserved for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, we are considering a bill to combat women's job insecurity. I particularly thank the rapporteur, Huguette Bello, for her speech in the rostrum and, more generally, for her voluntarism on this essential subject, although we do not share all her conclusions, particularly with regard to the way forward. Members of our group are particularly committed to the cause of women and to improving their status. Let me cite, as an example, the work of our colleagues Sophie Auconie and Marie-Pierre Rixain, who, a few days ago, submitted a unfortunately instructive report on rape, as part of the work of the delegation on women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women. This report has highlighted a phenomenon whose exceptional gravity remains worryingly commonplace. More generally, it raises the question of the position of women in our democratic societies in the twenty-first century. One particular figure has to make us react: only 9% of victims file complaints. As such, we can only rejoice at the release of women's words observed in recent months, even though it is painfully ironic that the phenomenon of harassment, which has been experienced daily by all women, has been unsaid for so long and that it has been necessary to wait for an American film producer to be called into question before their voices can finally be heard. I say it with seriousness: I hope that this liberation of speech will be accompanied by an awareness of society as a whole so that attitudes change and that it is now unthinkable, in the strongest and first sense of the word, to import and harass a woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u87	Our democracy honours the tangible progress made in this direction over the past two centuries, but much remains to be done in order to achieve real equality, which must be embodied in all spheres of life in society. As representatives of the nation, it is our duty and responsibility to act and continue to do so. We'll be vigilant. On this International Women's Rights Day, I also wish to pay tribute to all those women and men who have fought for the recognition and advancement of women's rights. Let us mention in particular Olympe de Gouges, whose bust, on which appears his "Declaration of the Rights of Women and Citizens", is located at the entrance of the hall of the four columns of the National Assembly. It was the first to fight for gender equality. Since that founding declaration, many measures have made significant progress in the area of women's rights. Without claiming to be exhaustive, we can mention a few milestones such as women's right to vote in 1944, permission to work without her husband's consent in 1965, authorization of contraception in 1967 and the right to abortion in 1975. In the area of equality at work, the Roudy Act of 1983 laid down the constitutional principle of professional equality between women and men. Since then, no fewer than eight laws have been passed to make this equality effective at work. However, there is a long way to go from intentions to reality: in fact, women now earn 9% less than men in equivalent positions, and on average 25% less than men in all positions. Beyond these figures, inequality between women and men in the world of work is less visible: women are often discriminated against or even harassed. Even if this is not the subject here, it is important to stress that harassment at work is one of the most perverse causes of inequality; It can lead to stress and loss of self-confidence and a deterioration in the quality of life at work. More generally, in the occupational sector, inequalities affect the different sectors of activity. Women are destined for jobs that they believe they are made for them and sometimes turn away from occupations that they mistakenly feel they are not suitable for them. They are thus under-represented in financial, engineering and high-level positions – and, Mr. Secretary of State, this is very strongly the case in senior management. These inequalities also materialise in terms of access to stable jobs. The figures illustrate this again: 30 per cent of part-time employees are women, compared with only 8 per cent of men. The bill that you are defending, the rapporteur, intends to respond to these discriminations; We agree with his voluntarism and philosophy. However, we are much more reserved on the device you are proposing, which may have adverse effects that you have not anticipated. Although we understand the dissuasive logic that you defend, we believe that this method is not the right one and that this text ignores the complex realities of the labour market. Indeed, financially punishing companies that hire part-time in order to encourage them to hire more full-time would result in an increase in the cost of work, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. This could also lead, as you said, to an increase in hidden work. It is therefore not an appropriate answer to the question of whether part-time work is to be carried out by firms hiring part-time, especially since part-time work can be chosen and corresponds to a demand for flexibility and balance between family and working life. It is true, however, that when a child arrives, it is most often women who have to adjust their working hours. Along with ambitious public policies for the development of childcare and parental leave arrangements, we believe that it is necessary to raise awareness of these issues among businesses themselves, in order to encourage the establishment of childcare services and working time arrangements. Combating women's job insecurity is also, of course, a matter of law. This has already been done in part by the Woerth Act, punishing companies that do not enter into collective bargaining, or that do not put in place an action plan for equality between their employees. These measures allow for dialogue and an opportunity for women to be heard, including on the issues of remuneration, vocational training and contract renewal. Moreover, although they involve sanctions for non-compliance, they do not directly affect the economic management of companies and their hiring needs. However, the effectiveness of this scheme must be improved, since it does not affect all enterprises and only 39% of the enterprises concerned are covered by an enterprise agreement or an action plan on occupational equality between men and women. It is therefore undeniably necessary to continue to work on the existing arrangements, with a view to extending them to a wider range of enterprises, and to introduce new measures that are effective in combating women's job insecurity without hindering the competitiveness of our enterprises. In addition, the Government has announced measures to promote transparency on inequalities within the enterprise, stressing the need for the latter to take responsibility through a system of valuing or stigmatizing behaviour. We will judge the content of this reform in detail, but we are convinced that the real response to inequalities between women and men in the world of work is a profound change in attitudes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u88	That's what you say when you don't want to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u89	It will take time and determination to ensure that women in all spheres of life have the same opportunities as men and that they are no longer subject to gender determinism. The answers that this bill brings to this just fight that you are leading, that we are leading, are not adapted; They would have a negative impact on the level of employment, particularly on women's employment. Combating part-time work is a duty: we agree with you on this point. But penalizing the chosen part time would not be constructive. That is why our group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u90	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u91	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u92	On this 8 March, Women's Rights Day, let me have a special thought for all those who, all over the world and especially in the Third World, still have to struggle to see their human rights recognized. This bill tackles an evil experienced by too many of our compatriots: the precariousness at work, suffered not only by women, affected by part-time work or short contracts, but beyond all employees. On behalf of the New Left Group, I would therefore like to thank our colleagues in the GDR Group for allowing us to discuss effective mechanisms to combat this scourge, which is a veritable breeding ground for social inequalities in our country. Given the characteristics of the ultramarine labour market that you all know, you will understand the resonance that this text can have, in our country, in the overseas. It is thus a symbol for us that our colleague Huguette Bello has been appointed rapporteur, in particular because of his long-standing commitment to the fight against this phenomenon which is increasingly present in our society. At a time when the Government has embarked on a major liberalization of the labour market, consideration of this text can, I believe, only be beneficial. It gives us the opportunity to talk about the daily lives of millions of our fellow citizens, and even more so of our fellow citizens: part-time work, career breaks, the deterioration of working conditions, the social and financial precariousness of employees, the questioning of the quality of work. All these questions, all these experiences, I think it was essential to present them, and I recommend that we all read the report. But I also believe that it would have been wise, and even respectful, for us to be able to discuss it in this House. Instead, once again, the majority decided to truncate this debate by tabling a motion for reference. Undoubtedly, in the area of occupational equality and the fight against job insecurity, the unity of positions within the majority is not guaranteed, and it is probably better to avoid any debate! In any case, our support for this text follows the strong measures taken during the previous quinquennium in favour of equality between women and men, but also in favour of improving the value of work and enhancing the safety of employees. Examining this text to combat job insecurity on 8 March, International Women's Rights Day, is a beautiful symbol. One must remember a cruel reality: in the world of work, women are the first victims of precariousness. For example, 30 per cent of women workers are part-time, compared to only 8 per cent of men. When a man receives 2000 euros net at the end of the month, a woman receives only 1630 euros. The poverty rate of women is 1.3 percentage points higher than that of men, and 23 per cent of the poorest households are single-parent families, 85 per cent of whom are single women with children. In the face of these unsatisfactory figures, urgent action would therefore be required, as we began to do in the previous quinquennium. Naturally, we would have liked the self-regulation of companies to put an end to the abuse of precarious jobs. But it is now clear that only binding measures can deter companies that perpetuate this infernal cycle of labour flexibilisation to the detriment of the well-being and well-being of employees. On the question of the excessive use of part-time work, which is structural in certain sectors, particularly in the areas of large-scale distribution or cleanliness, we are naturally in favour of increasing the penalties imposed on undertakings. Unfortunately, this bill may not come to an end, and I reiterate to our committee chair our call for a flash mission to be set up as soon as possible on this issue in order to have precise data and thus to ensure that legislation is in place. While zero-hour contracts appeal to a large part of Europe, we are in favour of a framework of minimum working hours. That is why we are also in favour of increasing the hours for contracts of less than one day per week. We are extremely in favour of the 20% increase in the precariousness premium for part-time CSDs, especially since the ongoing negotiations between the social partners on unemployment insurance are precisely aimed at taxing short contracts. Finally, let me say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the tabling of a motion for referral to committee on a text aimed at strengthening equality between women and men on this international day of women's rights is particularly disappointing. The President of the Republic stated that he wanted to make equality between women and men the main national cause of his quinquennium. But what is the Government doing in practice to bring this cause to bear? We are witnessing a real government duplicity on this theme: on the one hand, the words, and on the other hand, the acts that do not reflect the commitments made, as evidenced by the decrease in the budget of the department concerned. [[Vif applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] You have understood that we will vote against this motion to refer it back to committee, which constitutes a new one of these misappropriations in due form of the parliamentary procedure, of which this majority is sadly becoming customary in order not to have to debate the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u93	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u94	The La France insubmissive group supports this proposal for a law of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left aimed at regulating the imposed part-time work which remains, as the explanatory memorandum indicates, "an important cause of the persistence of wage inequalities between women and men, and a source of occupational precariousness for employed women". These wage inequalities are not justified by a difference in skills or by a difference in diplomas. They find their raison d'être only in the existence of the system of domination and oppression of women by men, the political, economic, social and cultural system called patriarchy. In the world of work, women's precariousness is reflected at several levels: in terms of employment contracts, wage levels, but also working conditions – in implicit and explicit relationships of domination based on a male habit that women would disturb. The latter thus have to comply with many prescriptions and injunctions – on their way of dressing, hairdressing, standing, speaking... The whole, it is thought and even said openly, so as not to "disturb" their male colleagues. Their words are systematically disqualified by mechanisms of presupposing their incompetence, questioning all the proposals they dare to make, or even overstepping them. Finally, they are, we are, often, assigned to certain types of trades which would by nature be adapted to our supposed women's provisions and which are mainly by culture, i.e. by social construction, more devalued and devalued, notwithstanding their undeniable social and even economic value. And when jobs are occupied predominantly by women, there is often a sense of impunity that leads employers to exploit and flexibilize employees even more, especially if they are women who are already suffering from aggravating factors of insecurity – age, social origin, education level, skin colour, national origin... [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I would like to illustrate my point with two quick examples. Firstly, that of the employees of the company Reinier, of the group Onet, a SNCF provider whose employees work in part-time contracts to clean the stations. After 45 days of fighting against a clause in their contract that allowed them to reassign to a new station at the last minute, they and they won. During this strike, the company tried everything to break the determination of the strikers, going so far as to hire temporary workers protected by the national police, in complete violation of the right to strike. This strike ended with the earned victory of the workers. I would like once again, on behalf of my group, to welcome the struggle waged by these workers, all the more so since this victory is now being called into question. Indeed, the company is trying to return to the memorandum of understanding; it refuses to take over employees in CSDs; problems on the payroll were noted and the equipment was not renewed. The employees had to work at the stations, from four o'clock in the morning, in the cold temperatures we have known, for 9.98 euros per hour. These conditions are unworthy. We must put an end to these situations, which are not isolated, and the bill presented by our colleague is in the right direction. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] However, employees of private subcontractors are not the only ones who suffer from job insecurity. I would also like to refer to the situation of parliamentary attachés or collaborators, whose status is only on the margins of the National Assembly's modernization project. Parliamentary collaborators are in a situation of excessive legal dependence on Members of Parliament. They are engaged directly by the latter, their employment contract depends on them. Their working conditions also give rise to abuses that can go as far as harassment. Mediation and training should be provided, which the institution is not proposing today. We need to move things forward. These examples must lead us to change our view of the place of women, and to revolutionize their role in the labour market. In our view, this bill must not only be debated but adopted by the National Assembly. We cannot believe that on this day, which everyone welcomes the importance, the majority will not be convinced by the serious and reasonable arguments put forward by our colleagues to pass this bill. The arguments for referring this text back to committee are not convincing because they have no substance. We will see if we have the opportunity to review the articles. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR and NG]] I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this bill, on behalf of La France insoumée.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u95	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u96	First of all, I am particularly proud to address this forum on this international day devoted to women's rights. The fight for equality is not a fight between men and women but a daily fight for men and women. It is not only for the present but also for the future, for future generations, so that our daughters, the women of tomorrow, have the same rights as their male counterparts. It is to blow up the psychological barriers and all the cultural obstacles still present in our society. In that capacity, I would like to return to an episode that took place yesterday during questions to the Government. Mrs Obono, you have, with rare force, called into question the custody of the seals, Mrs Belloubet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u97	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u98	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] ...by accusing him of acting on behalf of other ministers, on behalf of men. This is symptomatic of the difficulties faced by women, including in their workplaces. When they are in charge, they are accused of acting on behalf of others and of not being competent! It's unbearable. On this ground, you will always find us on your way to work for the recognition of equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u99	She was able to defend herself!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u100	All this to reject a women's bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u101	Mrs Huguette Bello, I thank you for your work, which has the merit of focusing on the job insecurity experienced by some women. When we know that the participation rate of women is 67 per cent, about 8 percentage points lower than that of men, that 42 per cent of managers are women but that they are only 17 per cent in managerial positions, that women represent eight out of ten part-time workers, that there is a 25 per cent wage gap between a man and a woman, we cannot be content with a status quo: it would be unbearable. As Françoise Giroud said, the woman will truly be equal to the man on the day when, in an important position, a woman will be appointed incompetent! Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore the inequalities that persist at work despite our legislative arsenal. I would like to recall the Roudy Act, which imposes equal treatment for women and men in access to employment, adopted here in 1983; The Act to Promote Equal Access for Women and Men to Electoral Mandates and Elective Functions, passed in 2000; The Gender Equality Act, passed in 2001; The Law on Equal Pay for Women and Men, passed in 2006; Cope-Zimmermann law imposing quotas for women on boards of directors and supervisory bodies, passed in 2011; Sauvadet law imposing quotas for women in the civil service, passed in 2012; and finally the law for real equality between women and men, passed in March 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, it may legitimately be unbearable for us, as members of the national representation, to note that despite such a great legislative effort to combat inequalities between women and men, these inequalities still exist in our society. I know that our Minister, Muriel Pénicaud and our Secretary of State, Marlène Schiappa, are working on this and I am convinced of their determination and political will on this subject. I would also like to commend the mobilization of civil society. I am thinking in particular of the action of the Glorious and their movement of November 3, 11:44 a.m., the date from which, in comparison with men's wages, women work on a voluntary basis. More than fifty days a year to work without being paid! This is unacceptable! Madam rapporteur, I understand your intention, but to force companies by reducing the burden reduction measures is a false solution in the fight against women's job insecurity. The main challenge lies in the fight against women's unemployment and the reconciliation of their private and working lives. I note this in the context of the parliamentary fact-finding mission on family policy, which I have the honour of being rapporteur with my colleague Gilles Lurton. You are aware that one in two women decide to work part-time or to stop working after their first child. The challenge, therefore, is to give all female employees the possibility of a perfect combination between their commitments, their personal lives and their professional lives. This is now the number one expectation of the Y and Z generations. We have to answer that. We have begun to do so, with the right to disconnect and the reform of the labour code. We will continue, this has just been announced, as part of the reform of vocational training: all part-time employees will enjoy the same rights as full-time employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u102	Instead, continue with the division of tasks! Parental leave!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u103	We have made the fight against gender inequalities one of the four priorities of the labour inspectorate. The removal of these inequalities is one of our compasses for this quinquennium. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I have only one thing to add: in every place and at all times, ladies, be convinced that you have the right to everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u104	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u105	You're playing great lord!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u106	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u107	This morning, we tapped at the door of my room office at 101 University Street. I was still in bed, I didn't react. The door opened, I groaned "I'm here" and the door closed with a "Oh, sorry! " As I was awake, I went downstairs for breakfast. When I got up, the shower mats weren't hanging in the bathroom anymore, the toilet bowl was covered, the towels changed, the garbage emptied. The same miracle happens every day. It's not the work of a fairy, it's of women. I talked to them, quickly, in the hallways. They arrive at six o'clock and leave at ten o'clock, early enough not to disturb the work of Members. From Monday to Friday, they work a total of 20 hours a week. At a rate of 9 euros per hour, they pay about 600 euros per month. Do they benefit from meal tickets? No. Are they a thirteenth month old? No. Basket or dirt bonuses? No. They only have a 50% discount on the Navigo pass, and fortunately, because they have a small hour of transport on the way and another on the way back. That waxed desk here, it's them. The glossy coppers, they're all over again. Shining marbles, always them. They are everywhere and, yet, they are absent. It is clean: it leaves no traces. The work of these women is invisible, especially since they too are being made invisible: they come here early in the morning, I said, in staggered hours to avoid us crossing them – and perhaps to spare us the shame. For how could we not be ashamed, ashamed of this ditch? Under the same roof, in the same house, they are paid ten times less than us! All are experiencing forced part-time work, all earn less than the minimum wage, all are below the poverty line! Our Parliament, full of reasoning and good feelings, accommodates this injustice of proximity very well. I mention it because it's under our feet, under our noses. I also mention it because it is in the image of France. All companies, all institutions, universities, regions, high schools, colleges, hospitals, stations outsource the maintenance of their premises. It makes modern, outsource. That makes savings, above all. Thus, silently, over the decades, across the country, thousands of women, indeed hundreds of thousands of women, have been pushed to precariousness, to cut-off schedules, to low-cost pay. Finally, I mention it, because what applies to the household also applies to social workers and school assistants, to child-care workers, to home-based jobs of all kinds, to all those – because they are women most often – who care for our children, the elderly or the disabled, when this work is not purely and simply free, in the family sphere, counted as zero in a blind GDP. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In this House and elsewhere, I hear about a service society that is glamorously praised as a promise of happiness. For sure, since we're on the side of the service! Served here, to the assembly, and to the little onions; served in hotels; served in the supermarkets; Served at home by nannies. Let us beware that this service society is not a society of servitude, with the return of serfs and maids, of the monks, but under a new face, another name, more modern, more acceptable, and which leaves to us the conscience at peace with the ironed shirt and the aspirated carpet, and as a bonus the defiscalized job service cheques! Our comfort sits on this cheap workforce. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Since this week, the presidential ambition has been hammered everywhere: for equal work, equal pay. All right! But that is not enough. You must, we must, revalue the trades that are largely carried out by women, build them real statuses and guarantee them income, especially since these trades are often the most useful ones. Get the advertisers out of here, get the traders out of here, get the pests out of here, but pay the health workers, the nurses, the child care workers! Before we legislate for the country, let me start more modestly, here, with the beam we have in our eye. Since, we are told, a great reform of this House is taking place, let us not neglect them, these housekeepers: let us integrate them into the staff, let them enjoy full time, bonuses and thirteenth months! Let them not, no doubt, receive our salaries as parliamentarians – let us forget equality – but let them have a decent income, worthy of them and of us! Let them pass above the SMIC and the poverty line! [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR and NG]] Mr Secretary of State, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I really hope that, for once, my wish will be fulfilled. I'm counting on you. Or I see another option. In the film Evening outfit, Jean-Pierre Marielle asks what one recognizes a rich person: it is someone who does not clean his toilets himself! The alternative would therefore be for Members and their teams to clean their own toilets. With such a measure, this task would no longer be attached to a gender and we would include men of household and men pee...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u108	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u109	Who knows the meaning of November 3 at 11:44? This is the symbolic moment when, at the same work and function, women could stop working if they were paid as men. Almost two months of work without being paid! 75 per cent of the French population, 88 per cent of whom are women and 60 per cent of the men surveyed, believe that women are still penalized in their careers compared to men, according to a survey published on 1 March. And because, as you recall in the explanatory memorandum to this bill, under equal contracts, diplomas, experience and responsibilities, a woman earns in France an average of 9 to 10% less than a man. Even more telling, all working hours combined, women earn almost 25% less than men! Definitely unglorious: France ranks 129th out of 144 in terms of equal pay, according to the latest report of the World Economic Forum, which also explains that gender inequalities have deepened again in 2017, undermining the progress made over a decade. According to the OECD, it will even take 2234 to achieve equality between men and women in France. We're dreaming, or we're nightmares! So how can we change and, in this case, speed things up? You explain in the bill that one of the main causes of these inequalities is the excessive use of imposed part-time, "first factor in wage inequality" and "most common form of underemployment" in your opinion. Of course, your figures are revealing: 78 per cent of part-time employees are women and 31 per cent of female employees are part-time, compared to only 7 per cent of men. According to INSEE, 32% of women working part-time were part-time and 9.4% of women were underemployed in 2015, despite their desire to work more. You come to the conclusion that it is necessary to penalise, financially speaking, companies using part-time work excessively. However, if we look more closely at the wishes of the French in this area, 74% of them are calling for, for example, more flexible working hours for employees-parents in companies, in order to be able to reconcile private and professional life more easily. It can be inferred from this that, for three quarters of the French, part-time work may not be experienced but rather desired. Therefore, rather than imposing binding measures on the company, why not draw on examples put in place by our neighbours, who seem to be working and who would have the merit of leaving the choice to employees to organise their working time as they wish, rather than, once again, passing by the sanction and purse of entrepreneurs? I would mention two measures, which would not cost much, but could be particularly effective, it seems to me. Firstly, 67% of respondents were in favour of each employee being able to obtain from her management the salaries of six male colleagues in positions similar to her own, as was the case in Germany, where a law to that effect had just been enacted on 6 January. In the United Kingdom, a similar law has been in force for two years. It also obliges large companies to publish the salaries of its employees. It's not so stupid after all, and probably very effective! My second proposal concerns telework. Why don't you extend it a little more? It can be a chance for our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u110	Oh, here! As if telework was the solution!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u111	Indeed, 87% of those who practice it consider that they create a balance between private and professional life, and 83% consider that it is an opportunity for savings. However, only 6% have contracted this practice as part of an amendment to their employment contract, even though 19% say they regularly use it informally. Here's a lead to dig seriously.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u112	All right! Good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u113	Finally, allow me to involve men in this fight for equal pay.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u114	Thank you, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u115	This is not a question of opposing men and women.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u116	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u117	In fact, it is obviously not a question of lowering the wages of men, but of increasing those of women when they are undervalued. I would like to make a final appeal for economics enthusiasts. In a report published on 30 October 2017, the Concorde Foundation calculated what would be the economic consequences of strict pay equity between men and women: €168.7 billion in a quinquennium, this is the impressive amount of tax revenue that the state could earn through rising savings and consumption, job creation and investment in the short and medium term! What if the future of men was nothing but women's success? That, after all, is a good moral!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u118	Well done.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u119	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u120	The purpose of this bill is to combat the precarious work situation of women, an objective of course commendable. However, in view of the measures envisaged, there is legitimate doubt as to its ability to achieve this objective. By reducing the burden reduction schemes and increasing the precariousness premium on part-time contracts, this bill aims to "dissuade employers from excessive use of part-time work". However, it does not take into account the second-round effects of such measures. Indeed, if part-time work is now experienced by 30% of part-time employees, this means that 70% choose to use it for a variety of reasons: family choice, willingness to pursue another professional or artistic activity or to take training, medical reason... However, the increased burden on part-time contracts would be detrimental to the competitiveness of enterprises. In the long run, this loss of competitiveness would result in a decrease in part-time hiring, without any guarantee that companies would turn their future hirings into full-time jobs. Thus, down from the original intention of the authors of the bill, the proposed measures would only result in the long-term removal of the employment of part-time workers, 80 per cent of whom are women.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u121	It's amazing to say that! Stunning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u122	The Government, my colleagues in the majority and I are lucid about the perverse effects of such legislation. Since last July, therefore, we have been fully engaged in implementing an action plan aimed at strengthening both the competitiveness of our companies and the professional and financial protection of employees. The increase in the activity premium and the reduction in wage social contributions, endorsed by the vote on the Finance Act and the Social Security Financing Act last December, have been a concrete translation of this. In the long run, the total exemption of social contributions from overtime will make it possible to increase this effort in favour of purchasing power and growth, contrary to binding measures, which would be unfavourable to economic activity. In addition, this proposal for a law does not take account of the method and timetable set out in consultation with the social partners. At present, legislation on minimum weekly working time and remuneration for overtime covers the use of part-time contracts; It establishes a general protective framework for the employee and guarantees genuine organisational flexibility through the use of a branch agreement or a collective agreement. Rather than a decision imposed unilaterally and without prior consultation, the Government has made the choice to involve the social partners...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u123	Let's see! With the prescriptions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u124	...to empower them with a view to limiting the abuses that have been found. As the Minister for Labour pointed out last week, it was agreed that the professional branches should have a period of time until the end of December to propose measures to combat the abuse of short-term employment contracts. Therefore, to legislate today would be to ignore and ignore the timetable set out in close consultation with the social partners. Finally, while we are celebrating International Women's Rights Day today, this bill does not effectively address occupational inequalities, including wage inequalities, between women and men. Indeed, much of the wage gap between women and men is due to the persistence of sexist stereotypes. The distribution of women and men by sector of activity, for example, reflects the power of prejudices and stereotypes, assimilated from childhood onwards, which influence career choices. To remedy this, concrete actions to change attitudes are needed. The institutions of the Republic here have a duty of exemplaryness. Schools, in particular, must ensure that both fathers and mothers are mobilized. By soliciting mothers too systematically, while they are more often in precarious work situations than their male counterparts, they expose them to more frequent absences from work, often poorly perceived by the company, which fuel a vicious circle of discrimination and precarisation. That's all at stake over the next five years; This is the fight for the great cause of the quinquennium to ensure equality between women and men. A powerful legislative system has been built over the past thirty years. It is in practice, through the strengthening of controls, and in mentalities that change must now take place. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Because it does not take into account the perverse effects of the measures it entails, nor the timetable established with the social partners, and because it lacks the main levers that would reduce the occupational inequalities between women and men, this bill does not seem to us to be able to effectively combat women's job insecurity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u125	Then we had to amend it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u126	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u127	On this 8 March, International Women's Rights Day, I would like to commend first of all the initiative taken by our colleagues in the GDR Group in tabling this bill to combat women's job insecurity, as the subject is indeed important. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remind ourselves once again today, unfortunately, that, in France at the beginning of the 21st century, it is not acceptable that wage differentials are so large and that the distribution of domestic tasks is so unbalanced. It is not acceptable that there should be so many sexual and gender-based violence against women, both in the family and in the professional and public spheres. It is not acceptable that we are still so far from parity in political and public life, in the boards of directors of companies, in trade union representation. It is not acceptable that, in terms of employment, women are much more affected by precariousness, part-time work, low wages and staggered hours. When we read this bill, the subject that will be before us this morning...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u128	He's gonna keep us busy longer than that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u129	...is a social reality that affects millions of women wage earners in our country. It also concerns men, of course, but let us not lose sight of the fact that 80% of part-time employees are currently women. We are talking about women employees who have a precarious employment contract because of their limited duration and low wage levels, but, above all, because of the uncertainty about the future: this work often does not cover the fixed costs of living – housing, food, clothing, transport – nor does it allow them to build their plans for life in a free and independent way. Like you, ladies and gentlemen, every week I meet fellow citizens who experience this unbearable precariousness while working, often hard – because it is, moreover, physically and psychologically usable jobs, it has been recalled, or which involve getting up early, going through much of his department, or even his region, to go to the site. For example, in Île-de-France, my region, thousands of workers leave their homes at four or five o'clock in the morning to go to the other end of Paris, hire at six o'clock and finish at nine o'clock, then resume at seven o'clock and finish at twenty o'clock. You are right, Mrs Buffet, there is indeed a reflection to be made on the staggered timetables! They do this for a gross hourly wage of between 10 and 13 euros per hour, depending on the occupational agreement and the level of wages. It's a life of effort and sacrifice, it's true. Moreover, we must not forget that these sacrifices are often borne by women raising their children alone. It is therefore imperative that we ask ourselves what measures should be taken to better protect these female employees, to strengthen their rights, to give them the tools to give them opportunities for career development. Part of this is the increase in the right to vocational training, which must be directed more towards low-skilled workers. This is the work we are going to do in the coming months; It actually consists in reversing the functioning of vocational training in France. This also involves the recognition of the same rights to vocational training for part-time employees and for full-time employees. Here, too, the Government made a commitment a few days ago to move in that direction. This also involves strengthening the purchasing power of these employees, a project that has already been started, as Catherine Osson has just pointed out. Finally, this involves strengthening professional bargaining within the company, as well as increasing the vigilance of the labour inspectorate. Ladies and gentlemen of the GDR Group, while I welcome the fact that we are dealing with this subject today, I cannot hide my scepticism about the tools and method you are proposing, about the tools largely geared towards the strengthening of the rules of the contract of employment and a method characterized by the absence of social dialogue and of taking into account the various realities of the professional branches. On the other hand, we must rethink the relationship between CDI and CSD, that is true, in particular by asking the question of the recognition of the social cost of the CSD in relation to the CDI, but this must be done by promoting social dialogue with all actors and within the framework of the reform of unemployment insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u130	It's 300 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u131	Finally, and this is certainly my strongest reservation, I think that this bill, contrary to what its explanatory statement suggests, does not deal with equal pay for women and men. It even contributes to a common confusion between two major, possibly complementary but distinct, subjects: the fight for equal pay and the fight to strengthen the protection of precarious women workers. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Within the majority, we are working on these two issues in order to improve the daily lives of precarious female wage earners. For, contrary to the cartoons that can be read or heard, these subjects are already at the heart of the transformations of our social model that we promote since our arrival to responsibilities. And we won't let go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u132	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u133	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République group a motion for referral to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Claire Pitollat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u134	Dear colleague, you could almost not support her!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u135	What a gap between yesterday's postures and today's speeches!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u136	That's how they want to talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u137	Madam rapporteur, before addressing the spirit and substance of the bill before us, I would like to thank you for seeing in the Chamber this 8 March, a day devoted to the fight for women's rights, the persistence of inequalities between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u138	Thank you Huguette!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u139	It should be said every day that the differences in treatment are perfectly unjustified, but to denounce them today can only have the greatest impact. We regret, like you, the 25 per cent difference in pay between women and men in all positions, and the 9 per cent difference in pay for equivalent positions. We regret, like you, the exposure of women to precarious work, including part-time work. It is no longer tolerable that the founding of a family is used as a pretext to restrain women in their career, and that a hiring policy or wage policy can be based on the gender criterion. However, even more than incentives or sanctions, we need to change our mindsets. Occupational equality requires that the worker be considered for his or her skills and knowledge, whether he or she is a woman or a man. The reasons for the persistence of a wage gap between women and men are subjective. They reside in the prejudices and stereotypes conveyed by a society that is reluctant to allow women to hold certain positions and engage in certain occupations. To consider the occupational inequalities between women and men through the only prism of the overexposure of women to part-time work is to examine the problem through the little bit of the lorgnette, at the risk of occulting the main aspects of it, without seeing that the method chosen is likely to be at best inefficient, at worst counterproductive. Inequality between women and men, and job insecurity, even if they are linked, are two distinct problems, requiring separate solutions, if one wants to be effective. We will fight for the professional equality of women by targeting one by one the grounds for the wage and career gaps. In that connection, the draft law to combat violence against women, defended by Ms. Schiappa, would oblige society to question the manner in which women were considered. I also have every confidence in Mrs Pénicaud's plan to resolutely tackle the 9% wage gap between women and men, which there is no justification for. The plan, the implementation of which will be entrusted to the social partners, should help to reduce and then eliminate this gap through social dialogue. In order to be permanently rooted in attitudes, such changes must come from the ground, not from the mere sanction of the law. By means of more feminised social dialogue bodies, companies will gradually have to regularise the remuneration of women under the watchful eye of the regional business, competition, consumption, labour and employment directorates, the DIRECCTE. This trust must be combined with the responsibility of companies: as our Prime Minister announced last night, checks on compliance with the law by the labour inspectorate will be strengthened. In the long run, after giving companies time to adapt their human resources policies, we will financially sanction unjustified wage differentials, because our goal is to eliminate any wage differentials at the end of the quinquennium. Your bill is blindly attacking part-time, mistakenly considering that part-time work is being systematically dealt with.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u140	82% of part-time jobs are filled by women!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u141	There are part-timers who are voluntary, and are synonymous with social progress...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u142	You can't say that! That's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u143	... because they make it possible to better reconcile work and personal life. Other part-time work is inherent in the nature of the continuing professional activity. This is the case for certain services to the person or in the areas of recreation or catering. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] Your proposals, which are aimed at financially penalising companies offering part-time jobs, are likely to constitute a social decline and endanger entire sectors of the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u144	As in their time the introduction of the eight-hour day or the prohibition of child labour! It's not possible to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u145	They are likely to increase the company's burden, amputating its margin of competitiveness to the detriment of wage growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u146	In your opinion, therefore, precariousness is an element of competitiveness?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u147	Colleagues, listen to the person who speaks!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u148	Some sectors would have no choice but to propose full-time, precarious CSDs because they are instable, instead of part-time CDI – at best.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u149	All this is very condescending...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u150	Many firms, whose activity is inadequate for full-time employment, may be forced to no longer hire or even eliminate jobs. Therefore, your measures do not provide any guarantees for the creation of stable jobs. But, of course, they will aggravate the precariousness that you intend to fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u151	It's Radio MEDEF!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u152	However, you are right on one point: part-time work, although already regulated, is a reality of precarious employment. Our majority, in support of the Government, has, moreover, largely begun to combat it. The strengthening of the social dialogue, which we have endorsed by ratifying the ordinances, leaves it to the branch and the company to define the working conditions which are most suitable for both employees and the sector of activity. The plan to reduce wage inequalities initiated by Mrs Pénicaud will only be more effective. Conversely, by rigidizing and multiplying the hourly employment thresholds and increasing the financial pressure on businesses, your measures would interfere with social dialogue, due to the lack of room for manoeuvre. Unnecessary tensions will radicalize positions, to the detriment of working conditions and activity. Combating part-time work requires ensuring equal access to skills development for all. The transformation of vocational training presented by the Minister of Labour on Monday is fully in line with this. The social partners have come to a new definition of vocational training which will make the employee the main player in his training and his career by providing him with the means to seize the opportunities offered by the challenges of mobility: training which is more easily accessible, a personal training account credited in euros and which takes account of the vulnerability of employees. Investment in competence is the best guarantee of professional equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u153	Part time has nothing to do with skills!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u154	This is why part-time workers will enjoy the same rights of access to training as full-time employees, including the same credit in the personal training account. The reduction of occupational inequalities between women and men must also be achieved through the evolution of maternity, paternity and parental leave, so that parenting is not an obstacle to the professional career, nor is it based on women in an unequal manner. The Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs is currently conducting a mission on the subject. Finally, we need to build on professional stability by empowering employers. The imminent reform of unemployment insurance will have to encourage them to remain stable and sustainable in employment, in particular by combating the abuse of short-term jobs. Together we pursue the same objectives: equality between women and men, proclaimed by the President of the Republic as a great national cause of the quinquennium; in particular, equality of work and pay between women and men, based solely on competence, free from prejudice; creating and sustaining stable jobs, with adequate working conditions, in viable and competitive enterprises. But rather than acting by coercion and indiscriminate sanction, we must promote employment, equality and competence through trust in our actors on the ground, employed as employers, by giving them the means and responsibility for their projects. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The bill pursues an objective that is visible, necessary and understood by all, but it does so by inefficient and dangerous means, which, unfortunately, justifies its referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u155	That's all for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u156	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that on this 8th March, International Women's Rights Day, you were simply sweeping away a text that proposes to combat women's job insecurity. March 8 is a day of action, a day of combat, a day of debate! This is not just a review of findings. To vote on this motion for referral to committee is to close the debate. This is to prevent national representation from addressing issues as important as the lowest increase in overtime and additional hours per year. It is to give free rein to these two practices which constitute indirect discrimination against women, of all those women who rely on us. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] Are you aware that by voting on the motion for referral back to committee, you deprive us of the opportunity to improve the lives of millions of part-time women, even though a part-time labour market is emerging before our eyes, with less, if not more, hours of work, and a process of precariousness? [[Vif applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] Neither the forthcoming reform of vocational training, nor the reform of unemployment insurance, nor the plans announced by Mrs Pénicaud and Mrs Schiappa, go back to these crucial issues contained in section 3 of our bill. What additional exchanges do you wish to have in the Commission, when our debates have been marked by the silence of the majority and the absence of any alternative proposals? [[Applause on the same benches]] It is because times are difficult that fundamental rights must be the legislator's priority. If this motion for referral is passed, discrimination against women will continue to flourish and we will have no chance of eliminating them before the end of the quinquennium. [[Members of the GDR, FI and NG groups stand up and applaud at length]] On behalf of both women and society, I regret and deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u158	The rapporteur has supported where it hurts!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u159	Who says no word consent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u160	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u161	I am speaking under Rule 6(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yesterday, the deputies of the majority followed the microphone, during the question-and-answer session of the Government, to tell us how unbearable the inequalities between women and men seemed. Yesterday, the Government stressed the urgent need to combat wage inequalities between women and men. He presented a plan to put pressure on businesses. We know how sensitive they are to the pressures of a government, especially this one! It is enough to convince ourselves to count the number of jobs created by the CICE's Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit! On this international day of women's rights, the majority have just explained to us for long minutes that this was not the time to discuss wage inequalities. Isn't this the time? By adopting or rejecting the motion for referral to committee, our House is about to make a serious decision. In view of the small number of Members present this morning, I would ask that the quorum be checked in accordance with the provisions of Rule 61(2) of our Rules of Procedure. If this quorum were not reached, we would regret it bitterly, because we believe that the referral of the text to the committee can only be voted on by an absolute majority of Members. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] It goes without saying that we would not be discouraged. We would continue to fight differently for concrete measures against wage inequalities between women and men. We won't let go. We will defend with the same enthusiasm, the same determination, our other bills that come under discussion today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u162	The chairman of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left asked for a quorum check, in accordance with Rule 61 of the Rules of Procedure, before a vote was taken on the motion to refer the matter back to committee. In accordance with the provisions of Article 61(3), it is for me first of all to verify that the application is admissible, namely that the majority of the Members of the group which made the request are actually present in the Chamber. Eleven out of sixteen members of the GDR group are present: the majority is thus reached. It is then up to me to check whether the quorum is reached, namely that an absolute majority of the number of Members is present. I note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u163	You have the compass in your eye!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u164	In accordance with Rule 61 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote will take place in 15 minutes, at 11.45 a.m.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u165	The meeting was suspended for a quarter of an hour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u166	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, before the sitting was suspended, the vote on the motion for referral to committee was postponed pursuant to Rule 61(4) of the Rules of Procedure. We resume the regular course of our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u167	Mr Andre Chassaigne has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u168	It seems that my point of order is based on Rule 57(2) of our Rules of Procedure. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups as well as on several benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on several benches of the REM group]] [[Same movements]] Frankly, Mr. President, I thought at this moment, the Speaker of the National Assembly would have replaced you for a few minutes. I know, indeed, that we all know here how much the President of Rugy is committed to the presence of Members, in numbers, in the Chamber. He has often denounced absenteeism. He made it a battlehorse! How many times has he told us that Members should be present and that, especially when important texts are debated, the Members of the Republic on the move should set an example! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no Of course, yesterday afternoon, in front of the cameras, during questions to the Government, the interventions followed as well as the professions of faith: the issue of gender equality was going to be taken in arms!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u169	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u170	[[Vif applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] Today, while an extremely important debate is taking place, absenteeism is particularly massive on the benches of a majority who often arrogates the right to give lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u171	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u172	[[Vif applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group. – Protests on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mr President, perhaps you are able to let us know exactly how many people are present in each group so that we can inform the public about this extremely important situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u173	At the moment, no member of your group was present in committee to discuss the text on asylum! Aren't you ashamed to do primary anti-parliamentarianism? It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u174	Thank you for concluding, Mr. President Chassaigne. I have before me other requests for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u175	[[Long protests on the benches of the REM group. – Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] Some, on these benches, remind me of those little dogs who, in the farms, take your calf and don't let it go! Let them therefore show a little more courage to resolve the great questions that arise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u176	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u177	On the basis of what article?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Mr. President Chassaigne, I know your intellectual honesty. It is not an abuse of language, but there, however, come to regret our absence while, to be a member of the Defence Commission, you know better than anyone that it is currently sitting in the context of the upcoming review of the military programming bill and that other commissions also sit... I hope we meet again, Mr. Chassaigne...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u179	So, vote on the motion to refer it back to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u180	Colleagues, we're listening to Mr. Fesneau!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u181	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] ... with the same will to reflect on the reform of the regulation so that we can work in better conditions! Don't do anti-parliamentarianism like you did! I really regret that you're willing to play this game! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u182	A committee meeting can be suspended!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u183	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u184	I assure the speaker who has just spoken at the moment of all my esteem, but I do not understand it. He agreed with us that it is enough of this mode of operation where committees sit at the same time as the public meeting, which forces us to the great gap at all times. We protested and, in response, we received the harshest words from the President of Rugy who is not here today! Accept that, after suffering a lot from the lesson of the President of Rugy –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u185	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u186	...the first to make anti-parliamentary propaganda in our country is him! (Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and NG groups) –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u187	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u188	... our colleague André Chassaigne points out his absence! It is also part of the parliamentary jousts and it is nothing scandalous! I beg you, let us not carry to the paroxysm what does not deserve to be! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] A second lesson could be learned. We have heard here a strong enough plea for gender equality, and so on, again yesterday, but where have the ministers who should speak on this occasion gone? Of course, there's one this morning! It's his job! But one feels crucified, more than argumentative. He comes here because he has to do the job and he has to be there anyway! And the others, so they're not interested? Yet these are poignant subjects!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u189	We're here! We don't need lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u190	[[Protests on the benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] You're getting your fingers caught in the door! It happens sometimes! Well, it's your turn! There are not many of you and that is not acceptable, especially after yesterday's question-and-answer session in the Government! We can now count you and we want to do it. Otherwise, you can also applause me standing, it would be very good for me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u191	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u192	Call to order and call to order!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u193	We're not upset!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u194	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] I hear what you're saying and I'm joining Marc Fesneau's. A little calm! As usual, we are observed and I don't think we're giving a great show! [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We are discussing an important text. Counting, drawing up a list, it's very interesting but it's not the object right now. We are present on these benches, men and women together. The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament is here, with us, the ministers are working, so a little less demagogy, especially on this day of women's rights! Let's get to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u195	You're the one who's teaching demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u196	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u197	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to President Mélenchon's inquiry expressing concern about the absence of members of the Government. As I said in my opening speech – Mr Mélenchon was not there – ministers are mobilized around the Prime Minister on an inter-ministerial committee on gender equality. Otherwise, of course, Mrs Pénicaud and Mrs Schiappa would have been present with you this morning to discuss this subject, which must mobilise us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u198	They should be here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u199	It is therefore a contempt of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u200	I repeat briefly and simply, ladies and gentlemen, that we are all mobilized on this issue of professional equality...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u201	You chose to hold this meeting at the same time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u202	[[Protests on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. –Exclaims on the benches of the FI group]] ... but which we consider – please excuse us – that this text would not only have liberticide consequences for those who choose part-time... You may disagree, it is perfectly legitimate, but I will not let anyone say that the Government would be against equal pay and the fight against precarious contracts – we have tried to demonstrate this – even though this bill would not achieve the desired objectives but would lead to the exclusion of women from the labour market and would change working conditions for those who choose part-time – it must be accepted that this is a choice for some. We know very well that, for those who suffer it, the proposed financial penalisation would have an immediate effect of eviction of the labour market and of substitution, in particular via temporary work, which I believe is not defended by anyone here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u203	He doesn't know anything about the file!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the course of our work. In the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee, the floor is for Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u205	This motion to refer the majority group back to committee is a new humiliation for the opposition's parliamentary initiatives. On this international day of women's rights, the deputies of the Republic are refusing to discuss a bill aimed at combating the job insecurity of women who work part-time. You claim to be actors in the new world, but with your lack of consideration for parliamentary work, you recycle old political strings to camouflage the debate within the national representation. However, yesterday's question-and-answer session in the Government turned into fine declarations of intent by the majority and the Government to combat wage inequalities between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u206	Movie!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u207	Would you be afraid to argue? If you are so sure of your arguments, do us the honor of presenting them! With this motion to refer to committee, you are showing both your sectarianism and your weakness in the debate of ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u208	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u209	There was indeed room for debate in order to find solutions in favour of professional equality! Last night, the Government presented a plan to combat wage inequality but without tackling part-time work, the first factor of inequality, as my colleagues have shown. You want to increase the controls on labour inspection in companies but you do not say that you voted for a drastic reduction in the means of this administration in the appropriations of the "Work and employment" mission: abolition of 239 posts, reduction of the budget by 7%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u210	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u211	In addition to this, your harmful work orders, which weaken the compulsory negotiations on professional equality in the enterprise and in the first place harm the employment of women. What contradictions between words and deeds! You could have explained this to yourself by opening the debate on our bill. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The Communist and ultramarine deputies of the Democratic and Republican Left Group will obviously vote against this motion for dismissal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u212	On the motion for referral back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Delphine Bagarry, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u213	I'm angry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u214	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u215	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u216	[[Protests on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I am angry today because you accuse us of wanting to close the debate on the issue of gender equality when it is quite the opposite. We have proved and will prove that this fight for equality between women and men is our daily struggle, as it is that of all the women who are on these benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u217	So, start today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u218	It's gone wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u219	The La République en marche group has proved that it has been able to make equality between women and men a reality...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u220	Really? When?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u221	... since there is almost perfect parity within our group. I am also angry because this bill links the issue of working time arrangements with that of equality between women and men. But I've always fought so that we don't tie the two questions. Work-time arrangements and child care arrangements are only discussed when it comes to equality between women and men. As long as we address these issues only under the prism of equality between women and men, we will not make progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u222	You can amend the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u223	In order to promote equality between women and men in the professional world, we will have to reorganise professional channels and combat gender stereotypes and stereotypes. We will have to tackle wage inequality and make paternity leave compulsory. Then, yes, we may have succeeded in achieving professional equality. As for issues of job insecurity and part-time work, we must deal with them in a comprehensive manner, not just under the prism of equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u224	It's amazing to hear that! You don't know that 80% of part-time work is for women?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u225	Of course, but I still think that we should not approach it under that prism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u226	Who is involved in part-time work?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u227	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] We will vote on this motion to refer it back to committee. We need to choose whether we are talking about equality between women and men or job insecurity. But we will not bind both.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u228	Mr Gilles Lurton, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u229	First of all, I would like to associate myself with the thanks extended to the rapporteur for the work she has done, although, as my colleague Stéphane Viry has explained, we do not share all the proposals contained in this text. It is still a symbol that on this day, dedicated internationally to women, we started this day of work by examining a bill dedicated to women. It is true that today, inequalities at work between women and men persist outrageously. I will only recall a few figures to illustrate my point. The wage gap between women and men is 24% – when a man earns a euro, a woman earns 76 cents – and, with regard to pension rights, the gap is 42%. Nevertheless, the complexity of labour law makes us fear that your proposals will have an effect contrary to what you are looking for. In our view, the measures that you propose are likely to seriously undermine the competitiveness of companies: this is therefore a dangerous bet for employment, and particularly for the employment of women. Yes, Mrs Bello, we all want to move towards equality between women and men, but we believe that your proposal can also be counterproductive and move away from our objective. However, we do not see how the hypothetical referral of this text to committee will allow the majority to change its position on a text emanating from one of the oppositions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u231	[[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR and NG]] That is why, in tribute to all the women on the day today, we would like to discuss this text with you, article after article, argument after argument. And, at the end of this discussion, each and every one of us will be able to take his or her responsibilities and vote, depending on what he or she thinks of these proposals. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI, GDR and NG groups]] That is why we will not vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u232	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u233	Because the proposals in this text seem counterproductive in that they may limit employment opportunities; because only a comprehensive approach seems likely to combat women's job insecurity; because the work undertaken by the Government opens up real opportunities for improvement; because beyond the measures proposed by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and those proposed by the Government, there are many avenues for improvement and a broad debate would no doubt allow us to agree on concrete measures capable of producing change; ...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u234	So why not argue today?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u235	... because my experience as a professional integration consultant in an intermediate association allows me to say that part time is sometimes an indispensable step in the construction of women's professional project...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u236	As long as it doesn't last too long!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u237	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] ...we will vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u238	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u239	[[Exclaims on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I had planned, on behalf of my group, to vote against this motion for referral to committee, but your attitude, ladies and gentlemen, has changed my mind. I had planned to vote against this motion, I said, because I believe that the debates should take place in this House. Nevertheless, even if the symbol is beautiful, we must guard against any demagogy on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u240	These words don't grow up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u241	[[Same movements]] Asking to count the number of Members present, as you have done, when you know very well that several of our colleagues are currently working in a committee or committee of inquiry, this is not quite correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u242	Talk to the President of the Assembly about the organisation of our work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u243	The image we thus give of parliamentary work is not worthy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u244	Assume!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u245	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] We're taking over! And it is everyone's turn: we too could have counted how many of you were present on the day of our parliamentary niches.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mrs Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u247	I think that the proposals for legislation put forward by the opposition should be discussed in the House, and this may be one of the ways of improving our House's reform. Nevertheless, I will abstain, because your attitude has changed my mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u248	Hence the interest of the parliamentary debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u249	You don't take your responsibilities, it's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u250	Tartuffe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u251	The next speaker is Mr Boris Vallaud, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u252	My colleague Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe argued on the merits. For my part, I would just like to note, since the Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament is present, that our Assembly is clearly neither plethora nor slow, but weak. Our Parliament is weak, because its resources are too modest and its initiative is reduced to little. It is weak, because the opposition is not the place that pluralism would require. It is weak, owing to the crisis of confidence that affects all liberal democracies, but also to legislative instability, institutional practice and the hyperconcentration of powers in the hands of the President of the Republic. Our Parliament is weak because of the absolutely aberrant organisation of our work. Finally, it is weak because of the practices of the majority. Indeed, this majority, which claimed to change everything, has become, so to speak, the opposition of its opposition. Basically, it is less the opposition that obstructs the majority, than the majority that obstructs the opposition. A weak Parliament, in a great democracy, must question us this morning, but also in the weeks to come. This is not the disillusioned finding of a novice in Parliament: it is that of a parliamentarian who is anxious to be useful to the public good. I urge you, instead of parliamentary frugality, the democratic debate. Prefer the defense of your convictions, which we accept, and which we even sometimes wish not to be the same as ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u253	Thank you for your moral lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u254	They're not moral lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u255	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] Defend your amendments, argue, propose alternative wording! Defend the debate! Sending back to committee a bill that will never be on the agenda is a denial of democracy. I therefore ask you, in the name of the aspiration that we all have for a living democracy, to continue the debate on the substance by not voting on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u256	Mr Adrien Quatennens, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u257	France has officially celebrated 8 March since 1982. This day isn't a party, it's a fight. A fight that we must fight under all circumstances. Recent campaigns against violence against women have, of course, alerted public opinion on the issue of violence and physical and sexual assault. However, physical and sexual assaults are not the only violence against women. Social violence is also dangerous. Despite the law of 4 August 2014 on real equality between women and men, France remains ranked 129th out of 144 in terms of equal pay. In France, women earn on average 25.7% less than men. This difference is primarily due to the fact that they are involved in part-time work. Women account for 48 per cent of the working population, but 82 per cent of part-time employees. With equivalent qualifications and jobs, women earn 10 per cent less than men, but there is no justification for this. It is because we are in favour of regulating the use of part-time work that we absolutely support this bill put forward by our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and we will vote against this motion for referral. Since the atmosphere is at an increasing weakening of Parliament, in particular by restricting the right of amendment according to the composition of the opposition groups, I would like to say that we are denouncing with you the absurd organisation of our work, which obliges us to be at the same time in committee and in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u258	On this point, we agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u259	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] On a text like this, on this day, we must be here. Since there are enough of you now, let's debate! Be exemplary, do not prevent debate on this text, do not vote on this motion for referral to committee. Vote against it, with us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u260	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u261	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u262	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to propose the conditions for further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u263	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u264	Mr Andre Chassaigne has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u265	I do not want to launch another controversy, but only respond quietly to President Fesneau, because I think he was wrong when he attacked my behaviour. Article 61 provides that a quorum shall be established "in the premises of the Palace". This means that the Members present in the Chamber are counted, but also those who are working in committee. I wanted to make that point, since several speakers referred to the work in committee. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Finally, I invite those who accuse me of being demagogue to show a little more humility. I want to give lessons, but I think it's over time, and through his work, that we can deserve respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chassaigne. This is no longer a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u267	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] If I say that, it is because the one who gives us lessons is the President of the House. I wanted to show today that when you give lessons, you have to be able to deliver on your commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u268	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Pierre Dharréville and others for the social recognition of carers (No. 589, 682).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u269	Mr Pierre Dharréville, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u270	Mr President, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, there are probably around 10 million caregivers in our country, 57% of whom are women. In silence, these people help a loved one to cope with everyday life when he suffers from disability, disability, illness, loss of autonomy. This work is precious to society, but we are not here to exaggerate ourselves on this tremendous generosity, this formidable solidarity. We are here to take measures to match this free and informal work, which amounts to between 12 and 16 billion euros each year. We are here to meet the expectations of these women and men on whom we place an immense burden without really recognizing them and without even doing what is possible to make life easier for them. Everyone knows the virtues of lemon. You can make lemonades and use it in the kitchen. But it is also recommended to whiten laundry and remove stains, cure sore throats, make mirrors and windows shine, disinfect cutting boards or refresh breath. It is known for its positive effects on health and its preventive role in the occurrence of several diseases. Caregivers often feel that society thinks they are lemons. While many of them are proud of their work, they often suffer from it in their professional, social and family life, not to mention the consequences for their own health. There are multiple accounts of caregivers suffering from isolation, exhaustion and sometimes collapse. For if they come to forget themselves in order to accomplish their task, it is also because the need for help of their loved ones, coupled with the weakness of the social response and sometimes the total absence of a solution, nourishes a phenomenon of guilt on which one cannot build healthy and lasting solutions. What caregivers invest in tasks that should not be their responsibility is so much less that they can give in such a decisive human relationship. It is not surprising, therefore, that caregivers first and foremost demand real rights for assisted persons, which will require a high-level social security system as well as a powerful public service, with many professionals, trained and recognized. The challenge of autonomy cannot be abandoned to the proper care of interpersonal relations and even less to the invisible hand of the market: it is a social issue to which the necessary resources must be devoted. On this great field of inequality, it is only time to organize the solidarity that society already practices in the raw state, to give way to law, equality, justice, dignity. Without abandoning anything of this global ambition, it has become urgent to give rights to the carers on whom is based a whole part of the care of disability and loss of autonomy. To give them rights is to recognize their dignity and their work. It is clear from the flash mission I have conducted in the Committee on Social Affairs in recent weeks that the helpers need time, resources and accompaniment. There would be a lot to do, and this bill does not go around the issue, but we must, without delay, begin to act. This proposal, which concerns the helpers in a professional activity, whom they wish to retain in their vast majority, tends to open up a new right, in a gesture of social progress, by indemnifying the carer's leave of absence. Today, this right, which does not give rise to any compensation, even if it is sometimes paid in a few large companies, remains theoretical. Indemnifying such leave would allow a person who ceases to work to look after a relative to continue to earn income, without affecting the assistance plan of the assisted person. It could, for example, be modelled on the daily parental attendance allowance. In any event, the fixing of the amount of this compensation is referred to a decree, in order to take the time to accurately assess the scheme and to identify the necessary means, even if it is to organize a gradual increase in charge. On this central issue, we must first ask ourselves whether recognition of the work of caregivers is essential. If the answer is yes, we will find it all the less difficult to find the necessary resources because it is not a cost but an investment to better preserve the health of caregivers and caregivers. According to the same logic, the lack of compensation is now a cost factor, otherwise higher, for social security and departments. Without wishing to argue, I would add that the Government has been able to decree urgency on other matters: why would it not deserve it? Article 2 of the bill now grants a total of one year's leave, for all, to the assisting person, for each person whom he or she will have to support during his or her working life. This duration remains insufficient as it stands, but it is already a matter of proposing a progress that is difficult to question. Article 3, on the other hand, tends to facilitate the use of part-time leave or its splitting by removing the employer's authorization, which is an additional reason for limiting otherwise imposed and unjustified part-time work. Indeed, facilitating access to the part time chosen for women and men, in addition with compensation, will make it possible to better adapt the presence of the helper to the needs of the helper and to better accompany him/her. Finally, Article 4 provides that the recognition of the status of permanent caregiver may give rise to an increase in pension rights up to one quarter per period of thirty months, up to the limit of eight quarters. This system already exists for caregivers of persons with disabilities. A bill, initiated by our colleague Paul Christophe, was tabled a few months ago, co-signed by parliamentarians from all the groups represented in our House. Taking your time to help a loved one who needs it and paying for it after retirement is double the penalty! To the helpers, so numerous in our country, we want to send the signal of national solidarity and social recognition. We want to pay tribute to the exceptional gesture that they do and help them to take on this task because they also accept it on behalf of all of us. This bill is intended to be just a start, but it is prepared for urgency. Colleagues, I have not heard any arguments to date not to strengthen the social recognition of carers, and to reject the measures expected of carers, but also the associations that have spoken out in recent days, publicly and unambiguously, and whose action I wish to welcome: the Association française des carers, the Fédération nationale des carers et hospitables familiales, the Union nationale des associations de parents et amis de personnes handicapées mentales – UNAPEI, the Fédération nationale des accidentés de la vie – FNATH, the Association des paralysées de France, the association France Alzheimer, the Union nationale des associations familiales, the Mutuelles de France, the Ligue des droits de l'homme... As our society becomes more and more aware of the challenge to be met, not content to be late on the real, we would choose to be too on the social consciousness? I can't imagine. The purpose of this bill is not to demonstrate anything, but to respond to an issue which the Committee on Social Affairs itself has identified in the diversity of its composition. And if she were to come back, it would be against our will and our efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u271	He's not wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u272	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] I encourage you not to make this day a day of disdain, of procrastination – it will be on March 25 – of "yes but no", of the kicking in touch, of "I would like well but I can point" because I know that many of us know these necessary measures. We're here to make the law, it's our part in common. We don't have to wait for anyone's permission to do it. Few, too rare, are the spaces that national representation can invest to take legislative initiative. Let us give these proposals the scope of the debate and the chance to continue their legislative process. Let us show, together, this modest audacity, let us open the door to an expected social advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u273	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u274	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Government attaches particular importance to the issue of close caregivers. It is explicitly included in the ministerial road map entrusted to me by the Prime Minister upon my arrival, as well as in that of the Secretary of State for the Disabled, Sophie Cluzel. I therefore welcome the will of this House, which is reflected today in the bill proposed by Mr Pierre Dharréville, after expressing itself a few weeks ago through the bill proposed by Mr Paul Christophe. I would also like to acknowledge the fundamental role, the remarkable dedication of the 8 to 11 million of our fellow citizens – let us recall on this international day of women's rights, that the vast majority are women – who help elderly, disabled or sick relatives on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u275	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u276	The care they provide, the solidarity they show, on a daily basis, and anonymously, are all too often forgotten. You stress very well that our recognition is insufficient and gives rise to only symbolic rights. These people are facing the challenge of an aging and increasingly dependent population: that is why the recognition of our caregivers is a major social and societal issue, to which we must respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u278	With Sophie Cluzel, I want to carry a comprehensive strategy to support caregivers, which can solve their problems in a systemic way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u279	It's like farm retreats! It's global!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u280	We must recognize their full place in the support of the most fragile, in order to respond to the difficulties they face and to prevent their exhaustion, loneliness and even disarray. Mr Dharréville, your proposal for a law tends to better recognize caregivers socially, through compensation and the provision of caregiving leave, as well as by extending their pension rights. Certainly, I can only follow and salute the spirit of your proposal, although we had to think together about its feasibility. That being said, Mr President, your proposal concentrates only on salaried carers, and I fear that it does not take into account those who do not work but who, as you know, represent half of the carers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u281	It's a start.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u282	As a result, I want to propose an approach that does not abandon any of our caregivers and that meets all their needs, at every stage of their journey, from information on their rights, access to health, to respite solutions, passing, as you have rightly pointed out, through support in their professional lives. Let us work together on this strategy to encourage innovative initiatives, while guaranteeing effective rights for all caregivers, regardless of the reason for the loss of autonomy of the assisted person. Thus, it is not only the helper that we will reassure, but also the helper. As you know, Mrs. Dominique Gillot was given a mission to facilitate the hiring and retention of persons with disabilities, as well as their caregivers. This mission is expected to deliver its findings in the coming weeks. On this basis, building on the discussions we have had with you in Parliament and on the technical work that my services are doing at the moment, we will present a set of measures by the summer, after consulting all the stakeholders involved, including the social partners – as long as measures are concerned with employment and business. These measures will have to serve five objectives. First of all, we will have to better inform and communicate about the rights of the carers: I can only note the lack of awareness by the carers of their rights and of the arrangements put in place to accompany them. I also have in mind the reluctance, the guilt, sometimes the shame, that some people feel at the idea of claiming their rights. Let us never forget that the Republic is not a place of charity, but of justice. We will have to support and support the helpers on a daily basis, by mobilising all the actors: peers, social and medico-social institutions, or services at home. We will also need to better identify and prevent the risks to carers: of course this concerns the spouses of the elderly, to whom special attention must be paid, but also the salaried carers exposed to the risk of fatigue, or illness. This also applies to young caregivers with disabled or sick parents, who may be particularly exposed or vulnerable. We will have to develop respite solutions, to allow caregivers to blow without fear, and without guilt, by maintaining a suitable accompaniment of the aided person. Finally, we will need to improve the professional inclusion of carers by facilitating their retention or return to employment, particularly by mobilizing employers to better address these issues. Member of Parliament, when I read your proposal, I remembered the character of Pauline, this grabatary grandmother painted realistically, and even rawly, Jean Giono in his novel Death of a character. His grandson, Angelo, understands what it is to love the day he helps him on a daily basis, where he assists him in his most intimate and unspeakable care. Let me read an excerpt from it: "For years, I can say until his death, I have been on the lookout for his eyes. [...] Every time it was to look at my forehead and my eyes. Later, I looked for her look like Orpheus Eurydice. » Your proposal, honourable Member, is salutary, and you know that I share the intention that inspires you and is very much in your honour. However, I cannot support your text immediately, which, moreover, leaves the financing of certain measures uncertain. The Government therefore proposes a referral to the committee. At the same time, the Government is committed, Mr. Member of Parliament, to making proposals addressing the issue of family caregivers as a whole and to having your Assembly consider legislative measures in the coming months. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Together, let us restore our trust in the most fragile of our fellow citizens and their loved ones, these voiceless heroes who assist them on a daily basis. To this end, honourable Member, let us certainly demonstrate a resolution, but let us also take the time for consultation. If the caregivers expect us to take action, it is above all a thoughtful and effective action. I count on you to give our common thinking the time it takes, so that it is worthy of our responsibilities and expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u283	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u284	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank warmly and sincerely Pierre Dharréville, our rapporteur, and to congratulate him on the work he has done. In his speech, I felt a real disappointment at the possible non-adoption of this bill. If I understand this feeling, I believe that this work needs to be put back into a longer-term perspective. At the beginning of the legislature, several groups asked to work on the theme of carers, a subject that had long remained "under radar," if you would allow me to do so. The board of the commission unanimously decided to create a flash mission which the commission entrusted to Pierre Dharréville. This bill is in line with the mission's conclusions, an illustration of the desirable link between supervisory work and legislative work. At the same time, the IUD, Acting and Independent Group has tabled and requested the inclusion on the agenda of a bill on the donation of days of rest for caregivers, a proposal adopted by our Assembly. We have moved from silence on the situation of the caregivers to a unanimous awareness and the beginning of solutions: the caregivers come out of the shadows thanks to this work. We can only be satisfied with that. The work won't have been useless! Why, then, don't go any further today, will you tell me?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u285	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u286	I totally refute the explanation, put forward by some, based on the origin of the text. The Social Affairs Committee has chosen to entrust a task to the GDR Group. Our assembly passed a bill from an opposition group a few weeks ago. These are two proofs that we have no state of mind to move forward on this issue with all groups, including those of opposition. We have referred in committee to the potential cost of the scheme: it cannot justify our rejection of the text alone. In fact, it was very clever, since it referred to the regulatory power and allowed it to remain a symbolic measure, if necessary. I believe, like Pierre Dharréville, that we must not be afraid to invest for the future: the cost of paying for the leave of absence will be far less than what caregivers bring not only to their loved ones but also to the community. There's only one real reason to be careful this morning. We can't stay in the symbols. We must not create false hopes. I, for my part, will not vote for a carers' law which I will not be sure will apply. It is important to ensure that open rights do not remain a dead letter. We often talk about the non-use of social rights: how can we ensure that caregivers who sometimes do not even realize that they belong to this category, because what they do is natural and duty-bound, exercise the rights enshrined in the bill? How can I do that? We still have work to do, despite the work we have done – a work that I am considering, for my part, in a collective way, not in a systematic opposition – in order to give real support to the carers. I solemnly ask the Minister to entrust her services with the task of assessing the conditions for implementation and the financial cost of the measures proposed in the text. In the spirit of the 2010 protocol on the consultation of the social partners, adopted by the Conference of Presidents of our Assembly but which we are unable to implement in view of the deadlines for examining the texts, I also hope that we will consult the social partners to put in place rights that employees can exercise because they have been negotiated. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] If the motion referred to the committee were to be adopted, it would not be in order to avoid the matter. With the elements I have just mentioned and the Gillot report, which we are waiting for, we will return to the subject. I am making an appointment, Mr Dharréville: when we have these elements, in a few weeks' time, I propose that you put your bill back on the agenda of our committee, possibly for joint consideration with other initiatives. The helpers came out of the shadows thanks to our work: we will not send them back.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u287	In the general debate, Mr Sébastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u288	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, I am somewhat confused by the quality of the debate which has just opened and which contrasts with the debate we had earlier this morning. The quality of the report presented by our colleague Pierre Dharréville demonstrates not only that the debate in Parliament can be useful, but even that the opposition's proposals can be intelligent. This observation should be largely inspired by the President of the National Assembly and the Government in their attempts to reform the Constitution. Moreover, the way in which Pierre Dharréville demonstrated in his report that the problem of caregivers is serious and urgent, demonstrates that it is necessary to resolve it. The crisis of EHPADs – housing facilities for dependent elderly people –, reinforced by territorial inequalities in access to care for dependent elderly people and persons with disabilities in the most remote areas of the metropolitan areas, leads, due to the lack of sufficient places, to mobilize the carers more, unfortunately under conditions where what they do, far from being recognised, is underestimated, if not often disqualified. Minister, you made commitments and set out a timetable. For your part, the chairman of the committee has asked you – this is one of the arguments put forward to push back the bill – to mobilise your services in order to quickly estimate the cost of the intelligent proposal put forward by the communist group: we therefore expect this figure to be achieved. I would also like to recall that we have put forward proposals under the Social Security Financing Bill to provide funding for new services that strengthen a public service for the care of the elderly, particularly those who are dependent on them. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, NG and LR groups]] I am pleased to see that the work of a Member of Parliament can be of benefit to 11 million of our citizens. Pending the fulfilment of the promises made this morning before the national representation – this should be done, you said, very quickly, before the summer, in the spring – I am making a final proposal: since the bill is smart, since the report is argued, since consensus seems to be emerging for a concrete step forward in addressing this societal situation, well, that Pierre Dharréville be proposed as rapporteur for the next bill! This would be the first demonstration of your ability to really consider the opposition's proposals. That is the meaning of my intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u289	He's a smart guy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u290	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u291	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting again to discuss family caregivers. This is the second time in four months, reflecting our Assembly's willingness to consider this subject, and more broadly that of dependence. We have collectively, and adopted in a single reading, the proposal for a law of day donations for close caregivers of persons who have lost their autonomy or are in a situation of disability of Mr. Paul Christophe. Today, Pierre Dharréville, after conducting a flash mission on caregivers – I thank him for all of his work – suggests, in this bill, that we recognize family caregivers socially. The Larousse dictionary defines recognition in these terms: "accept something, hold it true or real, admit it, see it". That's what this is about. Recognition is also "the feeling that encourages one to consider one to be accountable to the person from whom one has received a benefit. For these reasons, it seems to us desirable to include in the law not only the recognition of the work done every day by caregivers, but also the recognition of our society for the important participation of family caregivers in the care of dependent persons. I would remind you that family caregivers account for some 10 million people, almost half of whom are still in work. Recognition of this essential role can be achieved by establishing a family caregiver's status: it can also go further. This bill not only seeks compensation for caregiving leave, regardless of the profile of the helper, but also, as the caregivers' associations ask, compensation in quarters for the calculation of retirement. We support these requests a priori, provided they are fully visible and the most comprehensive financial estimate possible, in order to find the most appropriate financing solutions. That being said, I would like to stress the psychological impacts associated with the situation of caregiver. You don't choose to be a family caregiver, and in most cases you don't even have time to become one because you're not prepared for it: it's the situation that requires it. It is both the sense of duty, the emotional feelings and the natural family bond that guide the caregiver's actions. In addition to the innovative proposals of associations, such as self-training platforms, which we are ready to support, there are still many fields to explore in order to better accompany the new helper, in accepting both the situation of his loved one and the new positioning which consists of taking care of and accompanying a journey of life. Being a family caregiver is not necessarily natural. So, how do we prepare and protect these people? How can they facilitate their lives when they find themselves deprived of a situation they have not chosen? How can we rely more on our communal services to better accompany them? How to encourage companies to contribute to the recognition of the assisting employee so that he or she can combine professional and new privacy? A helping employee is an employee who knows how to organize, manage crises, juggle and adapt to several lives at a time. Most of them wish to continue their professional activity. When they can do so, it is at the cost of many efforts and renunciations, most often at the expense of their privacy. We must therefore also accompany them in this situation. Better support for family caregivers is not only to help them get out of their isolation in the face of their many obligations, but also to strengthen and reassure them in the care of the helper. Again, there is much to be done. Finally, on this International Women's Rights Day, I cannot help but recall this figure: 58% of family caregivers are women – women who take time on their private lives to look after their loved ones. I want to pay tribute to them today. As long as we accept these few observations, we must give ourselves time to broaden the reflection initiated by Mr Dharréville. The social recognition of family caregivers requires going beyond the compensation of family caregivers' leave. Some measures will go through the law, others will go beyond it. It is, in my view, a set of measures in various and varied fields that will contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of family caregivers and their social recognition. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] To this end, I fully trust the Committee on Social Affairs to pursue and collectively enrich this reflection aimed at better meeting the expectations of family caregivers. Be certain, Mr Dharréville, that we will be strongly mobilized to provide them with answers, as the minister committed herself to doing, within a short time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u292	Will Mr Dharréville be the rapporteur for the future bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u293	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u294	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the social recognition of carers is, as his name suggests, seeking new solutions to support the growing number of French people who are faced with the need to devote time to a person with a disability or with a loss of autonomy of particular gravity. In concrete terms, this bill intends to strengthen two existing schemes: the carer's leave for active carers, and the extension of the old-age insurance period for inactive carers. On the first part, this text proposes to pay the caregiver during his or her leave. We are in favour of this, as we are in favour of extending the duration of old-age insurance for inactive carers, as the Republican Group has shown by voting for these schemes in committee. However, our group had made it clear that this positive vote required the confirmation of a refined costing and a viable financing solution. Indeed, legible and sustainable public action requires some clarity in the use of the public funds we are responsible for. As regards the extension of the pension supplement to assistive parents of an adult with a disability, the impact assessment of the law of 20 January 2014 guaranteeing the future and justice of the pension system estimated the cost of this measure at €1.8 billion for 1,600 caregivers. What would be the situation with the extension provided for in this text? I now come to the financing of the compensation for the leave. It is proposed, for example, to introduce a daily allowance based on the daily parental attendance allowance, which would be financed by the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government, CNSA. At present, however, this fund does not have the EUR 250 million of resources that our rapporteur, Pierre Dharréville, proposes to move directly towards compensation for the leave. New resources must therefore be found. To this end, it is not desirable to increase the contributions of enterprises, as this would mean a lasting increase in the cost of labour to finance a system that can only increase in power in the medium term. Perhaps it would be more effective to think about an adjustment of the contribution of solidarity for autonomy. This contribution of 0.3%, paid by the employer and allocated to the CNSA to finance actions to promote the autonomy of the elderly or disabled, is due in the framework of the solidarity day established by Jean-Pierre Raffarin in 2004. In response to this measure, why not think about new avenues such as the introduction of a second day or a half-day of solidarity for caregivers? The EHPAD crisis and the financial difficulties encountered by the entire medical and social sector act as a call to reflect on the creation of new resources. Let us understand well: the financial reserves expressed are not intended to minimize the quality and importance of this text. They must be understood as a call to intensify our exchanges and to make our different sensitivities a force for strengthening solidarity in our country. In our view, this solidarity cannot be translated into an opposition between employers and employees. By voting in committee against Article 3, which provided for the employer's agreement to dispense with the transformation of the leave into part-time work or the splitting of the leave, the Republicans Group wished to recall the importance it attached to maintaining the quality of social relations in the company. The abolition of the employer's agreement sends a bad signal on an issue which cannot be without a dialogue in good intelligence between employers and employees. Moreover, the Labour Code provides that the employer's time limits for requesting and replying on the splitting of the leave or its conversion into part-time work are part of the elements negotiated by agreement. Braking employers on such a subject would be to send a signal all the worse since the company will be at the heart of the cultural revolution that our country must engage in in favour of the carers. Indeed, a large part of them – exactly 46% – are engaged in a professional activity. More than reconciling the lives of caregivers with working life, it is necessary to encourage companies to take account of the constraints and contributions of caregivers. Just as companies have been able to integrate maternity into their human resources management, they will have to adapt to the increase in the number of caregivers. This change in attitude implies that they first develop a benevolent attitude towards the employees facing this situation, which naturally involves the implementation of proactive policies, both with the employees as a whole and with the support of the staff concerned, and the maintenance of a social dialogue. The stakes are great, especially for all those French working in SMEs and TPEs, who do not currently have the funds to internalize a service to monitor and support their assisting employees, unlike the large groups in which we can already see the existence of internalised accompanying solutions to inform and advise the assisting employee in his or her efforts. This point allows me to introduce an essential and even fundamental variable: information. In fact, beyond the size and means of the companies concerned by the issue of carers, it is the difficulty encountered by the human resources services in identifying the existing aid schemes that seems to be the greatest obstacle to the support of carers. This is, in any case, the result of a study of several hundred human resources directorates of various sizes. According to this study, while 84% of HRDs believe that supportive solutions for carers will develop in the years to come and 93% believe that these solutions will improve the well-being of employees and thus the performance of their company, they are only 11% to recognize that they do not develop internal policies to assist carers. Social protection actors such as mutuals and for-profit and non-profit complementary workers now offer employees all the levers they need to support them when they are helping. But the French do not know, for lack of awareness. It is our duty to ensure the dissemination of this information on the rights of caregivers and, more broadly, the dissemination of a culture of care in our country. What we are working on here, through our desire to improve the social recognition of caregivers, is the recognition of the close ties that give society its overall cohesion. We thus formulate a true philosophy, a vision for the future of our country. What we defend, in essence, is an ethic of solicitude towards our neighbour in the face of the hazards of life inherent in the intrinsic vulnerability of the human condition. Without the networks and links that they allow to develop, the sense of social worthlessness and isolation are intensifying, favouring the ill-being of the most vulnerable such as the elderly, sick and disabled. Ladies and gentlemen, let us extend the inspirations of this text and give meaning to our society! The culture of the welfare state in France all too often leads to doing in place of the other, to attend it or even to infantilize it. On the other hand, the concept of caregiver, which involves cooperation between people, allows us to refocus our bureaucratized health system around the values of altruism that the caregivers so well embody. Clearly, while it is necessary to consolidate the existing and the right role of the State, we must not forget the companies where employees work. I am sure that the GDR Group will be in favour of capitalising on our exchanges to move forward in this direction. "For the great collective tasks," said General de Gaulle, "it is not enough to have energy and skills. It requires dedication. There must be the virtue of sacrificing to the common purpose something of what we are, of what we have, of what we aim for. We need not erasure, but self-denial. » [[Applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Because this bill increases the recognition of the dedication and self-denial of caregivers, we will vote for the mechanisms it promotes and for all measures that will complement or strengthen its content and sustainability. Like the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I stress that we must not only have a costing of these provisions, but also start a new reflection on their financing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u295	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1155.u296	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the bill for social recognition of carers; Discussion of the proposal for a law on free school transport; Discussion of the bill creating a French list of tax havens; Discussion of the bill to combat sleep merchants. The meeting is adjourned.
