ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the bill for a new railway pact (No. 764, 851, 842).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u2	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u3	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, the rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, in opening this debate, I want to share with you the seriousness and the spirit of responsibility that drives me. Our common task is to look at a bill that seeks, no more or less, to bring our rail system into a new era. You were waiting for this debate, and I was looking forward to it. I am confident that we will be able, in the next few hours and throughout the discussion of this text, to share its spirit, enrich it, build consensus and a vision that will go far beyond this House. Yes, many say so, and they are right: SNCF belongs to the nation. That is why I look forward to discussing today its assets, its weaknesses, its future, for which we all have the highest ambitions. The history of SNCF is glorious and occupies a special place in the collective imagination, from the trains of the first paid holidays and the holiday colonies to the performances of high speed. Everyone has in himself a railway memory, attached to his childhood or to his intimate life. For all of us, the train combines technical fascination and affect. Because our collective commitment to SNCF is profound, our expectations for SNCF are important, and that is legitimate. Its legacy, after eighty years of existence, must make us optimistic, provided we measure the stakes that face us and the right decisions at the service of a single cause: the general interest. If we are to propose a new railway pact to the nation, it is because rail reform is imperative to give the nation the place that must now be its own, in favour of sustainable mobility. The diagnosis is as clear as it is alarmist: technical failures have multiplied not because of the incompetence of our engineers but because of insufficient maintenance of our network; the current economic model, threatened by dizzying debt, is no longer sustainable; cargo, on the other hand, moves back dangerously. The only objective of the railway pact we are proposing is to better meet the expectations of our fellow citizens, particularly with regard to daily transport. Improving the supply of public services quantitatively and qualitatively is a major challenge, but the openness to competition that we have subscribed to offers us a real opportunity to do so. It is up to us to accompany the SNCF so that it takes its full place, at the service of our fellow citizens and our territories! Before I get to the heart of this pact, let me make a few points. No, the Government never wanted to go into force, quite the contrary. This is not our conception of public action. From the beginning, the Government wanted to combine a twofold requirement: effectiveness and dialogue, as there could be no effectiveness without dialogue. The latter began with the national foundations of mobility launched last summer, following the speech of the President of the Republic in Rennes. It continued closely with all stakeholders – regions and other communities, SNCF, social partners, representatives of users, environmental associations – from the preparation to the submission of the Spinetta report. I myself continue to receive all the actors involved in this rail reform, in particular the social partners, by maintaining the same position of openness and listening as during the 45 meetings held since March. All points of view are legitimate and I want to believe that we will be able to find a solution of general interest together. In giving its place to the dialogue, the Government also wished to engage in a substantive debate in Parliament. The Prime Minister clearly presented our method on February 26th: whenever an element of discussion is sufficiently advanced, the corresponding provisions will be introduced into the law by way of an amendment instead of the orders, as I have already been obliged to do as soon as the text is examined in committee. I know that the strike, however, continues. I know how difficult it is for our citizens to travel on a daily basis. I am also thinking of the consequences for our rail freight business, once again weakened by the current and announced disturbances. I also do not want this movement to create a gap between railway operators and SNCF users. While I hear the questions and even the concerns that are expressed, I think it is imperative, however, to engage in a sincere and constructive dialogue that is unravelled by the fantasies and misconceptions that pollute it. We are not taking this reform against the railwaymen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u4	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u5	We lead it for the French and we will do it with the SNCF and the railwaymen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u6	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u7	This reform is not a challenge to their status.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u8	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u9	Those who benefit from it today will continue to benefit from it tomorrow. No one intends to deny this moral contract with the railwaymen, whose attachment to the public service speaks to all, especially to me, who was their colleague for several years. I know their know-how and their commitment. I know that some are father-to-son railwaymen and that these journeys are synonymous with professional and social pride. I want to say it forcefully, a force that will help me, I hope, to be heard by all, in this House and beyond: many of the reasons put forward to fuel the current social movement are based on inaccuracies. This reform would organize the breakdown of the public railway service and prepare for the rampant privatisation of the SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u10	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u11	I say this clearly and firmly: these two trials are false, strictly false. On the contrary, this reform is preparing the renewal of SNCF, a public enterprise yesterday, a public enterprise today, a public enterprise tomorrow. Better, this reform has only one goal: to increase and improve the supply of public services. Thanks to this pact, tomorrow will run more trains, more reliable, more modern, more comfortable, more punctual.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u12	Like in England?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u13	Who can, under these conditions, speak of a breakdown of public service?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u14	We!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u15	This reform is being carried out hand in hand with the regions, and I want to confirm the commitment of the state on their side to achieve this common ambition. Who can seriously talk about public disengagement? This reform must also be seen as part of a more comprehensive mobility policy. Here is a simple truth that should be remembered: mobility has always been historically linked to development and progress. There is no democracy without movement, no prosperity without exchange, no culture without openness. Mobility, more than ever, remains the best response to the growing risk of self-absorbing, provided that physical mobility is at the service of social and occupational mobility, because not all our citizens are equal in the face of this mobility. This reality obliges us. That is why I will shortly be presenting a bill that will set out a clear framework to strengthen this mobility society and ensure that it is embodied in concrete actions and objectives. This is the ambition of the national foundations of mobility. This broad and extensive work of pooling has made it possible to hear the voices of thousands of people – elected, professional, trade unions, experts, associations, citizens – in order to make a diagnosis as broad, rigorous and consensual as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u16	What a tongue of wood!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u17	The work entrusted to the Infrastructure Guidance Board took place at the same time, under the auspices of its President, Philippe Duron, whom I thank again for his involvement, and with the assistance of representatives of the National Assembly and the Senate, which I also welcome. This process of consultation and co-construction has been the most fruitful method of building common ground and clarity on the issues facing us. I am convinced that, in order to better meet the needs of our fellow citizens, we have a responsibility to meet a threefold requirement. A requirement of efficiency first. While our transport system is generally of quality, it is now dangerously threatened with ageing. During my many trips, I hear the resignation, sometimes tinged with despair, of these local elected officials who demand the upgrading, promised and constantly repelled, of their daily infrastructure. The second requirement is social justice. In many vulnerable rural and peri-urban areas, owning a private car is often the only solution. The absence of alternative modes of travel then becomes a real obstacle, to education first, to employment then. To give everyone the opportunity to move is to help them conquer their autonomy and contribute to shaping a more emancipatory society. Who can deny, in this situation, the relevance of a large public railway service as a vehicle for social and territorial cohesion? Finally, the third and final requirement, but not the least: the environmental requirement. At a time of climate emergency and recurrent pollution alerts, it is time to accelerate the transition to sustainable mobility. Who can challenge the relevance of rail in this situation as a response to the climate challenge? Keeping the commitments of the Paris Agreement is putting the train at the heart of this mobility society by facilitating its use by our fellow citizens as soon as it is the most sensible, as Nicolas Hulot strongly recalled. More than ever, to understand this triple requirement, the answer will be innovation. A new revolution is taking shape: digital technology, artificial intelligence and autonomous vehicles. These innovations are not threats to the railway; they are even assets – I am thinking of advances in multimodal information and ticketing, new signalling systems that allow for a very large increase in the frequency of passenger trains or innovations in the field of freight. The future is to amplify the logics of interconnection by increasingly playing the complementarities between road and rail. In these circumstances, it is up to us to reinvent the railway of the twenty-first century. For this, it is up to us to make a lucid and complete diagnosis. At the cost of a considerable collective effort, accelerated since the 1960s, France has built up a remarkable network of fast roads and railways which have made it possible to complete the unification of the national territory and to make our country one of the crossroads of Europe. We must claim the success of this priority given for thirty years to the high-speed rail network: this network, wanted by the public authorities, has been an essential part of our economic dynamism. Who can deny that the TGV – the high-speed train – has accompanied the renewal of our large regional capitals and the growth of our tourism activity? The development of high speed is an undeniable technical and commercial success, as the traffic figures for 2017 further illustrated. But let's also look at reality in the face! This policy has been expensive, very expensive. Worse, we have financed it on credit, at the price of debt that has swelled over the past decade. The TGV was the pride of the SNCF, but the debt accumulated in particular to secure its financing became the ball of the SNCF, and it did not even allow it to meet all its responsibilities, because this policy in favour of high speed took place at the expense of the daily transport. So what's at stake now? Let the SNCF be tomorrow, for these daily trains, the flagship it is today for the high speed. The challenge is both quantitative and qualitative. Our rail system runs 11,000 trains and 4 million people every day, and as we know, the demand for mobility of goods and people will continue to grow in the coming years. This is a major challenge because this demand for mobility, particularly in our large agglomerations, is increasing at a rate far greater than the capacity of our infrastructures. The challenge is therefore first of all quantitative. But it is also qualitative: the only delays in the traffic of our TERs and RERs – regional express trains and regional express networks – are now twice as long as in Germany or the Netherlands. Increasing and improving the supply of daily transport: it is no longer a question of choosing between one or the other of these options, but of embracing them both. As for the constant decline in freight, it must also mobilize us. The necessary rebalancing between road and rail modes is reflected, inter alia, in the Government's desire to restore fair competition and to wage a determined fight against social dumping in the transport of goods by road. Finally, the Government has set out a logistics policy, structured around the industries and major port platforms, served by rail and river, with significant investments in ports at the key. Rail and combined freight must engage in this renaissance, which will require new organisations to reconnect with performance. This reform is therefore essential, and it is urgent, because it must prepare us as much for opening up to competition as it will allow us to benefit collectively from it. Contrary to what I hear, this openness to competition is not a Brussels injunction; It is a deliberate choice to improve our service offering, maintaining the requirement of a high level of security. New entrants to the rail market will renew the services offered. This opening will, for SNCF itself, be a stimulating sting, which it must understand with confidence and determination. It is for this reason that the regions demand it ardently. It is also for this reason that France has made a commitment to implement it and has played a leading role in ensuring that its European partners do the same. I would therefore dare say to most of you, on the benches of this assembly: this reform, we have all, or almost all, wanted,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u18	Certainly not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u19	... and it corresponds to a decision taken in the previous quinquennium. Yes, politics is also sometimes a matter of continuity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u20	And sometimes breaking up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u21	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] But let us put the debate clearly. Openness to competition, despite the confusion that some seek to maintain, is definitely not privatization. Let's not mix it up! It signs the end of a monopoly without taking away anything from the prerogatives of the public authority to define the service rendered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u22	It's just the beginning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u23	This is also the French-language public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u24	What a mess! What a novlangue!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u25	So let's rest assured, and let's rejoice too! The opening to competition, most of our neighbours have already done so...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u26	With what consequences?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u27	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] ...and all of them have made clear profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u28	Colleagues, only the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u29	We're just responding to provocations, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u30	Mr Corbière, the debate is just beginning and I am sure we will have the opportunity to hear from you. Let the Minister complete her speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u31	I'm only reacting to fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u32	He's right! What about the anti-fake news law?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u33	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] We are systematically opposed to the case of England to discredit our approach. But I want to repeat here that England has made very different choices from ours for a very long time, that it is not our model.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u34	Thatcher to French!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u35	On the other hand, I would ask you to observe what our German, Swedish or Italian neighbours, to name but a few, have withdrawn from the competition of their rail system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u36	It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u37	The reduction in costs was between 20 and 25 per cent, and has been transformed into an increase in supply, i.e. the number of trains, by about 20 per cent. In Germany, for example, traffic has increased by almost 50% since 1996. Prices fell significantly, even though the quality of service was improved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u38	There were ten deaths in Germany in 2016!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u39	Moreover, in these countries, the end of the monopoly has not led to the weakening of large national operators. On the contrary, they came out of it energized and grown up, because the newcomers pushed them to do more and better. But, as I said and announced to our union interlocutors, this openness to competition, I want to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u40	That's what we understood.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u41	That is why I want it to be gradual first, in line with the will expressed by the regions. It will therefore run from 2019 to 2023, depending on regional decisions. I also want to protect it, so that it does not take place at the expense of SNCF in general and railway workers in particular. On the contrary, I want the SNCF to be ready to confront its competitors and the railway companies to take with them the bulk of the guarantees attached to their status.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u42	Everyone who enters the SNCF must have the same status!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u43	We could have simply decided to open up to competition without any other form of action. To do so would have meant weakening the SNCF and threatening railway workers. On the contrary, it is a genuine, lasting pact that we intend to pass between the State, the SNCF and its agents. The first actor of this railway pact, therefore, is the state, which is not content to show good intentions. The latter's commitment is not virtual and has a figure of 36 billion euros for the next ten years, i.e. 10 million euros a day and an increase of 50 % over the last decade.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u44	You announced 46 billion! That's 10 billion less!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u45	I am never saying that in the history of SNCF, such a sustained effort will have been made. This gesture will also have a concrete translation since it will make it possible to catch up with past underinvestment in ten years. More investment is less technical problems, more regularity and safety for trains, and more serenity for travellers. But the state is said to be preparing for the closure of the small lines, that part of the network which is least frequented by our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u46	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u47	Like the Le Tréport-Abbeville line!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u48	I have said it a hundred times, and I will redirect it a hundred times or more if it is necessary: there are no small lines. There is a public network and a public service, the purpose of which is to facilitate the mobility of our citizens, wherever they are. Land use planning, the fight against enclaving and the resulting sense of decommissioning are naturally based on this network. This is why the State will accompany the regions in their ambition to maintain the railway link wherever it is an essential vector of social link, especially in rural areas. Here again, the State joins the speech given, with a joint funding of EUR 1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u49	This is not in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u50	Finally, the Government has already announced that the State will take all its responsibilities, by the end of the quinquennium, to relieve SNCF of its debt ball, whose interests deprive it of 1.5 billion resources each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u51	Let's not pay the interest!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u52	To investigate the data of a 50 billion euro problem, while the state must work towards its own deleveraging, we are working hard with the SNCF to ensure that this debt cannot be restored tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u53	It is with the banks that the problem should be solved!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u54	The modalities will be determined shortly. We say what we will do and we will do what we have said.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u55	You didn't mention it during the campaign!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u56	It wasn't in your program!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u57	On such a basis, the railway pact that we propose to the nation will be a winning square: for the SNCF first, for the railway workers then, but also for the taxpayers and, last but not least, for the users. The aim of this pact is to build a new SNCF. Our fellow citizens often ignore this, but in reality today there are three SNCFs, three establishments with separate objects, whose articulation is a source of partitioning and inefficiency. The 2014 reform was a step forward for the organisation of the company, notably by reunifying the management of the infrastructure, but it left many problems unanswered. Station management provides a clear illustration of this, as noted in their report, Gilles Savary and Bertrand Pancher.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u58	They're references!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u59	It is therefore necessary to take a new step. The three establishments will be merged into a single national public-capital company, thus forming a fully integrated industrial group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u60	That's a bad idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u61	The law will provide that the securities of the latter will be fully held by the State and ineligible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u62	That's exactly what you're being blamed for!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u63	I would remind you that it is a matter of returning to the status which the SNCF enjoyed for forty-five years, from its creation in 1937 until 1983.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u64	That's not true! Things had been fixed by decree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u65	However, it does not seem to me that the Popular Front Government had made this choice to prepare for privatization, since it was, on the contrary, a nationalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u66	Do not mix tea towels and towels!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u67	So some of the trials that we're facing are almost smiling.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u68	It's not serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you will appreciate that the debate is taking place calmly when your turn comes to speak. I therefore ask you to respect the words of others, as you may wish for respect for yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u70	We're only reacting to fake news, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u71	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u72	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] This change in status and organization must be synonymous with greater accountability for the company and its managers. We fully count on the latter to launch this organizational and managerial revolution, which must illustrate the capacity of the public service to modernise for the benefit of its users. But we also want the railwaymen themselves to benefit from this development. First, because the expected gains from this reorganization will facilitate their work. Secondly, because we intend to honour the moral contract between SNCF and its agents as to their status. The railway workers in office will retain their status, and those who will evolve within the branch will benefit from most of their rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u73	What about retirement?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u74	With regard to the new hires, I would like to point out here a principle of fairness and coherence, which will lead to the conclusion of a high-level collective agreement, i.e. a base of common rights, from which all agents in the sector will benefit tomorrow, in return for the specific constraints of the railway trades. From the point of view of the taxpayer, finally, it is the guarantee that all actors will be subject to total financial discipline: the reform therefore creates a barrier to "re-indebtedness". French taxes cannot be mobilized to absorb a debt that would recover. The user, for his part, will be satisfied with his expectation of a public service offer increased in quality and quantity. With new service offers, but the same social rates as today, our reform does not aim to save money on the back of public rail service, on the contrary! It simply aims to ensure that every euro spent is spent in a fair, efficient and sustainable manner. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude with one word. Yes, the railway pact that we are submitting to you is intended to be a structural element of a renewed and strengthened social pact. By its ability to reduce congestion in metropolitan areas, to quickly connect territories with each other, by its undeniable contribution to the climate challenge, the rail system must be the backbone of the sustainable mobility of everyday life. Finally! And I want to reaffirm our ambition, with a mixture of gravity and enthusiasm: to accompany SNCF in the 21st century is, for me, to strengthen it in its founding role in the service of sustainable land-use planning. Because there will be no strong rail without strong SNCF, it must reinvent its own modernity. In doing so, it will be able to live up to the expectations and needs of our fellow citizens. With the involvement of railway workers, it will demonstrate the performance of public management and the relevance of a two-century-old but resolutely forward-looking mode of travel. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] SNCF has been and remains a beautiful company. To remain so, she must now write a new page of her beautiful story. Let us be aware of our past, of our present assets, and have confidence in our future! And let's go together!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u75	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u76	Mr President, the Minister responsible for transport, the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, "The SNCF is possible! Thirty years separate us from this slogan passed to posterity. More than just a promise, this exclamation affirmed a commitment: that of a serene company in its ability to innovate, confident in those who make up it; a company open to new ideas and the common will of the railway workers to be at the time of the challenges of their time. It is true that France and railways have linked history. SNCF has accompanied the country's transformations: industrialization, first paid leave, post-war reconstruction, urban development and mass recreation. The tremendous momentum of modernity initiated in 1988 was the vector of unquestionable successes – the world record of the hour, the development of the high-speed network, etc. –, of French excellence recognized in the eyes of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u77	Thanks to the monopoly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u78	It was also, despite everyone's efforts, a slow but inexorable deterioration of the network: three decades of one-way investment strategies, with all the TGV; Finally, the increase in debt, which has become unsustainable; and the emergence of competing mobilitys, the road or even the low cost air force. At the same time, rail Europe was patiently designed to lower the ticket prices of 500 million citizens, harmonise the social conditions of workers, improve passenger safety, connect networks between them and effectively combat global warming. This ambition was reflected in the adoption of four railway packages, all voted here and in the European Union's fora, by a majority of French representatives. We must now meet a twofold requirement: to rebuild our railway system, which honours railway workers and the pride of the French, and to improve passenger services by taking advantage of the liberalisation of rail. For openness to competition is neither the cardinal virtue nor the disproportionate risk; opening up to competition is what we will do collectively. Rather than sticking to a policy of the Maginot line, which is overburdened because we would not have wanted to anticipate the transformations, I suggest you look at the situation with a lucid eye so that we can build together the railway system of our time. Let's look at the difficulties in front of us! The first, not least, is its cost. SNCF needs €22 billion in funding, covered by €9 billion in commercial revenue and €10 billion in public funding, representing an annual deficit of €3 billion, which feeds an endemic debt of €46 billion. This debt is the legacy of thirty years of political blindness, of a planning of the electoral territory at the expense of a public enterprise, which in passing is charged with all the disabilities. This debt, let us not be deceived, is ours, and we will have to bear it collectively in order not to leave it indignantly to our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u79	Your words don't mean anything! It's a public investment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u80	I would like to take this opportunity to conclude a debate which is not appropriate, on the cost-effectiveness of the rail system. This one will always need a lot of public money. In its heart, the maintenance and regeneration of the national heritage: 30,000 kilometers of exploited lanes, 17,000 crossings, 1742 tunnels, 26700 bridges and viaducts. This common good must receive our collective attention: this is the subject of the €36 billion investment plan announced by the Government. Debt is not only financial, it is also technical. For SNCF Réseau, the value reaches the number of years: thirty years on average in France, sometimes much more on small lines, compared to seventeen in Germany! If the current situation were to continue, only one third of the national network would remain in 20 years' time. This technical debt is the main cause of the lack of regularity of trains and recent malfunctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u81	She's not the only one!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u82	Let's think about the accident at Brétigny-sur-Orge or the incidents this summer in the train stations! The financial difficulties and the outdated nature of the network have a detrimental effect on the quality of service. Delays, cancellations and deprogrammings are increasing, and the traveller suffers from this imperity. In 2016, 5 per cent of scheduled trains were discontinued and 11 per cent of trains travelled with delays of more than six minutes. More than half of the lost minutes are related to so-called "controllable" causes by SNCF Réseau and railway undertakings. The consequence? A smaller increase in the share of rail in France, while demand for rail transport is increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, this diagnosis alone is the basis for the need for reform. As far as competition is concerned, no one here can pretend that it has been built since the early 1990s by the Member States, that it was voted in these walls, under the previous legislature, by a large majority, and that it is a demand from the regions. Several models exist. Let us make it clear from the outset that we do not wish for Britain's. Britain has not liberalized its market; It privatized its railway system at the cost of the disappearance of its historical operator. In doing so, it has re-established regional monopolies. As a result, prices increased as a result of a shortage of driver labour, less public transport subsidies and a structurally saturated network. This model is not ours. On the other hand, other countries have been able to take advantage of the opening up to competition, which has led in particular to an increase in train supply: an additional 50% in Sweden and an additional 30% in Germany. It has also reduced the cost to public authorities: 20% less in Germany and 30% less in Sweden over the last 15 years. The liberalisation of rail has mainly improved the offer of service to passengers: the renewal of rolling stock, the increase of tariff offers, especially at low prices, the improvement of travel comfort and the regeneration of small lines. On this last point, I am thinking of a French operator who operates 7% of the TER traffic in Germany and who has demonstrated that it is possible to double the number of passengers thanks to an innovative offer and an adapted organisation, while stabilising the price of tickets for travellers. Competition, contrary to what can be put forward docly, is the consecration of public authorities as the organizing authority for transport. Tomorrow, as today, the state and the regions will set the schedule, schedules and fares for the tickets. Railway undertakings will offer the offer that will best meet the finely identified needs of passengers. With savings, the regions will be able to drive more trains under better conditions, and the future prospects for what is wrongly called "small lines" can be improved, as we have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u83	You don't know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u84	Finally, this reform will be successful if it ensures a high level of protection for employees in the rail sector. This is the meaning of the inclusion in the law of strong guarantees for railway workers holding status: the maintenance of lifetime employment in the railway industry, the maintenance of the pension system and the maintenance of remuneration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u85	It's not in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u86	The political postures of each other should not preempt the construction of an attractive social pact for current and future hired railway workers. The branch collective agreement, which has been discussed since 2014, will be able to enrich itself with new protections and protect us from predatory social practices that could pass through some decomplexed minds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u87	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCF is not a service like any other. It's a piece of history, part of ourselves. That is why, despite the structural difficulties, the French are so attached to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u89	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This necessary transformation is in no way a leap into the unknown. SNCF accounts for one third of its international turnover. The world of tomorrow, she already knows it. Reform is possible. The French want it and we will do it, so that we do not experience, in thirty years, the feeling of having failed. Anticipating the mobility and needs of everyone, being as close as possible to travellers and taking them further: as many challenges as we will meet together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u91	I call Mr Damien Adam, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u92	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mrs President of the Committee on Sustainable Development, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today is important for the future of our public rail service and its 4.5 million daily users. As the sector is in crisis, we have a collective responsibility to carry out its reorganization and modernization. While partial, sectoral and thematic reforms have taken place since the late 1990s, our public service no longer meets citizens' expectations and is not sufficient to meet their mobility needs. Vetusty of facilities and rolling stock, delays, deprogramming, lack of information, rising prices of tickets: there is no shortage of critics and many are well-founded. More than one in three Intercity trains arrive late in peak hours and 25% of delays are greater than 20 minutes. The observation is shared: a significant part of the incidents encountered by users are due to the deplorable state of the network.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u93	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u94	For decades, the state has not made the necessary investments – it's visible – and 20% of the network is slowing down. In my region, in Normandy, for example, it took one hour forty-five to make the trip Paris - Le Havre in 1973; Today it takes an average of two hours and seven minutes. Over the past 30 years, the State has committed itself to the massive financing of new high-speed TGV lines, to the detriment of daily mobility and maintenance of the existing network. Consequence? The public railway group is heavily indebted, to the tune of nearly 50 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u95	Who was responsible for the strategy at SNCF?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u96	This debt no longer allows it to invest in the renovation or modernization of its infrastructure, nor to halt the general deterioration. However, the State has not reduced its commitment to SNCF: every year we pay 14 billion for the proper functioning of the company, more than the budgets of the police and gendarmerie combined. As a result, traffic declines and the rail system is exposed to fierce competition: that of air transport – especially at low cost – but also that of transport by coach or carpool. This is all the more regrettable because these transports are polluting, less socially and environmentally virtuous. One observation is necessary: a situation so deteriorated is the sign that the system itself is flawed and that it is imperative to change it in depth for a public service to meet the expectations of the users, for a renewed regularity, modernised materials, with, at the same time, an organisation of the company SNCF rethought and a status of the safe railwaymen, able to face the challenges of tomorrow. The bill for a new railway pact proposes that and nothing else! In no way is it a question of pointing the finger at the railwaymen, who are extremely professional and have exceptional experience and know-how. On the contrary, the bill gives a great deal of attention to the various stakeholders and trade unions. Indeed, the method chosen to construct this reform is that of consultation. We are now halfway, and the results are already there: progress has been made in opening up to competition. Thus, this reform announced by ordinances leaves room, as negotiations progress, for...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u97	There are no negotiations!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u98	...to the hard entry of provisions in the law. The text thus contains measures relating in particular to the dates of opening up to competition of TERs and Intercity trains, derogations from opening up to competition, the transfer of employment contracts, social tariffs and general supervision of the railway system. As far as the transfer of employment contracts is concerned, for example, these amendments seem to me to be quite relevant. They take account of the progress made in consultation with trade union organisations and allow for the establishment of a protective mechanism to ensure the continuation of employees' employment contracts in the event of an operator change. These provisions will again be able to be discussed, possibly amended at the sitting, which is proof of the vivacity of our parliamentary democracy. I have no doubt that our debates will be rich, as they have already been in committee. Thus prepared, openness to competition is not a threat, but a formidable opportunity, ladies and gentlemen. This opening was not decided because liberalism would be an end in itself, but because it appeared to be necessary to revitalize the railway system, restore quality of service for the benefit of users, with more journeys and more price competition. It will improve the rate of use of our rail network and develop a denser offer, capable of opening up isolated areas – in Germany, for the past 20 years, rail transport has increased by 49%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u99	Do you really believe him?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u100	It will also improve the quality of service, as it is largely on this criterion that the difference between companies will be made – in Germany, the average age of rolling stock has thus increased from seventeen years to just under eight years. Operators will also be encouraged to innovate. In Italy, new entrants have introduced new services, including free wifi on high-speed trains. Thus, competition will allow the rail sector to reinvigorate its market share against other modes of transport – in Germany, the share of the train has increased by 1.5 percentage points. It will thus lead us towards a more environmentally virtuous system, in line with our climate commitments. Finally, it will enable our companies, in particular SNCF, to spread internationally, winning markets in its area of excellence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] More competition means more travel offers, better quality of service and more services, while maintaining a maximum level of safety and social rates guaranteeing everyone a right to effective mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u101	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u102	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of Economic Affairs, Mr rapporteur, Mr draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, we hear a lot about this new railway pact: a lot of concern, but also a lot of false information. That is why I think it is necessary to recall some background elements of the debate that brings us together. This bill is part of a broader approach than rail transport reform alone. It represents an essential step towards a deeper and extremely ambitious reform of mobility, based on consultation with all relevant actors, within the framework of the national mobility bases, and on the substantive work carried out by the Infrastructure Guidance Board. What were the main conclusions of this work? First of all, our fellow citizens are pressing for cleaner, safer and sustainable mobility. At the same time, the transport sector faces the major challenge of combating climate change. Daily transport must now be seen as a priority, which is important. Finally, the public mobility service is rightly regarded as a determining factor for cohesion and spatial planning. Following this period of study and broad consultation, the decision came. We will have to consider, in a few months' time, a mobility policy law, which should include a component on infrastructure programming. Today we are focusing on another part of the reform, examining the Government's proposals for a new railway pact. In the context that I have recalled, and not to mention the essential revival of rail freight, rail passenger transport deserves special attention in several ways. It is first and foremost a structural element of everyday mobility, which we consider essential to strengthen and strengthen. It is also an environmentally friendly mode of mass transport. It is a powerful tool for spatial planning, and the heated debate we have had in committee on the small lines of the capillary network bears witness to this. Finally, it is a mode of transport that began its transformation, with the 2014 rail reform, but whose economic model may raise questions about its financial sustainability, given the indebtedness of the incumbent operator. We must bear in mind, I think, the ultimate goal of the railway pact proposed to us: to transform our rail model to ensure a safe public service that meets the expectations of our citizens and the territories, while being concerned with taxpayers and therefore with the effectiveness of public spending. Iron must be the pivot of our mobility; We must organize ourselves accordingly. Our exchanges in committee have raised a number of concerns. The principle of opening up rail passenger transport to competition has given rise to debate. I would point out that this measure, which is the result of the European railway package, is a legal obligation which is necessary. It is now up to us to transpose it into domestic law within the time limits. The Government has taken on its responsibilities in a transparent manner: following the dialogue with stakeholders, our committee was able to discuss its amendments clarifying the modalities of this opening. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We wanted the market open to competition to have a strong and independent regulator. This is the meaning of the amendment which our committee adopted on the initiative of the rapporteur Jean-Baptiste Djebari, whose quality of work I would like to pay tribute to, in order to engrave in the marble the conformity of the opinion of the ARAFER – the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities – on the tariffs of tolls and thus guarantee the fairness of competition. Our discussions also focused heavily on the structure and future status of the public railway group, with some concerned about possible privatisation. The minister has given us assurances that the incumbent operator will remain public. Nothing in the bill, the work of the commission, or in the Government's amendments that we are about to discuss, is in the sense that they fear. Concern has also been expressed about the future of small lines, which are sometimes feared to be collateral victims of opening up to competition. On this point, too, the Minister gave assurances, recalling the central responsibility of the organizing authorities for transport in the choice of services and spatial planning. In any event, it seems to me essential that the decisions they take in this area give the territories perspectives and take account of the intermodal dimension of mobility. In addition, these decisions will obviously have to be discussed with the actors concerned, after an in-depth analysis and on a case-by-case basis of the situation of each line. Amendments on the subject have been tabled in committee and will, I am sure, be the subject of debate at the sitting. Finally, our discussions focused on the future status of railway workers. On this point, it seems to me that the central question is the conditions for the transfer of SNCF agents to competing companies, the concrete arrangements of which still need to be clarified. In general, I hope that our discussions will reassure the railwaymen, whose concerns we hear. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, our discussions in committee have been intensive and constructive. I hope they have been able to answer most of the questions. Our debates in this House will undoubtedly allow us to deepen the points which still require it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u103	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u104	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, "if you don't have a train today, it's to have one tomorrow" : this slogan printed on the coat of arms of a railwayman on strike has me as you have asked. It is precisely in order to have trains tomorrow, everywhere and for all, that this new pact must be signed. Rail transport has a considerable impact on economic development. Our work in the Committee on Economic Affairs, led by our draftsman, Damien Adam, led to a broad consensus on this subject. So far, much has been said about the weight of the past: the weight of debt, the weight of status, the weight of late trains. Now it's the future I'd like to talk to you about. It is no longer a matter of clinging to our legacy, but of planning for the future, and this reform is up to the challenge ahead, as it is first and foremost a rendezvous with history for the future of the European rail network. My experience in North America, where the passenger railway has been abandoned to the benefit of other, more expensive, polluting and individualistic modes of transportation, has strengthened my belief that the train is in the direction of history. It must have a privileged place in the acceleration of time and mobility that characterizes the twenty-first century. However, this place, while a movement which is dear to me is launching its great march for Europe, is precisely at the level of the continent that it must take place. If metropolises are very important places for economic development, there cannot be a metropolis without an efficient rail service, which will allow them to connect to the rest of the country and, beyond that, to Europe. The European train will take place with the Deutsche Bahn, Trenitalia, Keolis, and also with the SNCF, provided, of course, that it is strong. If SNCF is to be part of the European game and be able to conquer Europe, we must also leave room for Europe at home. We also need to take the lead on the road to innovation in the field of transport. Today, it is clear that innovation is accelerating in America: the Hyperloop, the SpaceX, the TransPod, the autonomous vehicle, unfortunately they were not born in Europe. If the SNCF is not to be reduced to a role of too heavy a manager of our national network and is to have a spirit of conquest and innovation, it is essential to transform its governance. A more responsible and accountable relationship between SNCF and its shareholder must be established. This reform is also a rendezvous with the history of the development of all the territories, from mega-cities to medium-sized towns and, of course, rural territories. To promote local economic development, it is necessary not only to remove white areas, but also to promote short circuits and organic farming, to reinvest our city centres, to develop local entrepreneurship and of course to redevelop local transport. In this sense, the reform gives the regions powers to pursue a genuine local mobility policy. They will have greater latitude to develop transport in the image of their territories. The law will allow them to set regularity or frequency requirements. They will have more power vis-à-vis operators, including to group profitable lines and less profitable lines or to determine their social rate policy. As has been pointed out on all the benches in our work, competition does not do everything. Let us acknowledge, however, that it has enabled all Europeans to make cheaper calls.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u105	That's not true! Not everywhere, not for everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u106	It allowed them to take planes at prices that defy any competition – that is the case – between Dublin and Biarritz, between Genoa and Stockholm, between Paris and Prague. Nevertheless, it is true that it is not an end in itself: it must not be the pretext for social dumping, but rather the opportunity to value those who make the business on a daily basis. In truth, I look forward to the adoption of this law, so that the real work will finally begin, that which will give every actor a well-defined role in the railway of tomorrow, a railway that we will all build together: Europe, by facilitating interconnections and supporting investment; the State, which must regulate, which must invest and which will eventually have to take back its share of the accumulated debt; the regions, which are relevant to the management of local infrastructure, which will have to organise competition according to their priorities; the company, which must be better governed and better managed to guarantee quality service and conquer new markets; the railwaymen, to whom we must demand the sustainability of the enterprise, but who must help us to do so; users, of course, who must be at the heart of the strategy and benefit from a service that meets contemporary challenges. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Because we are attached to our trains and need them, we owe them a future. This future will be played between Marseille and Rome, between Stuttgart and Paris, between Berlin and Prague. It will also be played between Arles and Avignon, between Strasbourg and Nancy, between Limoux and Carcassonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u107	And between Abbeville and Le Tréport!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u108	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u109	I have received from Mr Olivier Faure and members of the New Left Group a motion to reject beforehand pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u110	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Sustainable Development, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr rapporteur, Mr draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, we are not on the same line, neither on the broad lines, nor on the small lines. We are contesting the text and, no doubt, the context, as well as, of course, the pretext. We have differences. First of all, we do not agree at all on the method. In September 2017, we were mostly gathered at the Brongniart Palace for the launch of the mobility foundations. I must say, Minister, I applauded you when you launched this initiative, which was to provide us with a vision on mobility. You announced a great law of guidance on mobility, which would have been an opportunity for all of us to invest fully in writing the future for the French and for the territories on the essential issue of daily travel. You also confirmed what you had said a few months earlier, with regard to the priority given to daily transport and the effort to be made with regard to work on the existing network, for its regeneration. You were also setting up an Infrastructure Guidance Board to produce the necessary elements for the preparation of a major infrastructure planning law, which would set priorities in the rail and road sectors. Finally, you announced that Mr Spinetta would be given a report on the future of SNCF, particularly with regard to its organisation. All of these announcements seemed as useful as they were consistent with each of us and encouraged us to engage in this debate. Many of the Members present here have done so willingly. And then, without us being able to understand why, suddenly, last February, you put this beautiful architecture upside down, starting by addressing the topic of mobility with what was to remain a tool: this reform of the French railway system. I regret this because, in doing so, you have deprived us of a vision and coherence, that is, of the means of articulating your proposals with such essential issues as intermodality, modal reporting and the presence on each territory of a suitable means of transport. With regard to the method, I also regret the choice of orders. Often the pretext for their implementation is based on the argument of time. As you know, as I do, you have control over the agenda of the National Assembly: you therefore had the possibility, at the very end of the foundations of mobility, of placing rail reform on Parliament's agenda. Senators, thanks to Hervé Maurey's bill, have demonstrated that it is quite possible to have a rich and respectful debate on this subject, which is so important to all of us, with parliamentarians, allowing each of them and, through them, the French, to know all the elements of appreciation. I stress this because the method of ignoring a number of provisions is a source of concern and interpretation. It is not surprising then that the question of the future of small lines, or even the threat of privatisation, can be put on the table. It was precisely because we did not know all the elements that these questions appeared in broad daylight. I stress all the more that the National Assembly should not be regarded as the place where the deputies are asleep. The fact that we only have important amendments in committee prevents us from exercising our role as parliamentarians by depriving ourselves of our right to make proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u111	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u113	I repeat: finding such important amendments in committee prevents us from carrying out our work as parliamentarians. I'm sorry, believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u114	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u115	Our differences also concern the reading of openness to competition. On this subject, we were told one thing and its opposite. In particular, I heard that nothing had been done so far, and at the same time that everything had been decided before. The truth, as you know, is that opening up to competition comes from a long way: from the 1990s, since it was the famous Directive 91/440/EC that opened up the prospect of a single railway system. The opening was to take place gradually, in stages: first with international freight, then with national freight, then with international passenger transport, before the question of opening up to competition of national passenger transport was asked. It had to go through the adoption of successive railway packages – if we are in the fourth, it is good that there have been three others before. Each time, these packages have led, for our assemblies, to the need to amend a number of legislative provisions resulting from the so-called LOTI – Internal Transport Policy Act of 1982. There was first the 1997 law establishing RFF – Réseau ferré de France. There were then, in the 2000s, other texts that led to the creation of the Public Railway Safety Establishment and the regulator, ARAF – the Railway Regulatory Authority. In 2009, the ORTF Act on the organisation and regulation of rail transport introduced further amendments. Finally, the law of 4 August 2014 on railway reform was supposed to adapt our rail system to European requirements – we have not said enough, or we have said it wrong. In their report at the time, our colleagues Bertrand Pancher and Gilles Savary wrote black and white that this rail reform was probably one of the most important texts on the railway system since 1937. In recent years, therefore, there has been an important text preparing the opening to cover. I say it because, when we call for the status quo, some claim that nothing would have been done before. But the law of 2014 proves that things have been done. In fact, some are no longer defending the same positions as at the time. Thus, the Prime Minister had voted against the major rail reform of 2014, as well as the Minister of Economy and Finance. However, this text was in line with our vision of public service in the rail sector. I say this all the more because, if there is one subject on which the previous Parliament has left its leg, it is indeed the negotiation of the fourth railway package. This negotiation did not begin in August 2014 but a little after our assembly voted on the railway reform law. In this context, France defended its view of opening up the railway sector to competition by supporting the OSP regulation – public service obligations – which corresponds to our country's philosophy in this area: that of public service delegation. We are well aware of this mechanism because, in our agglomerations, in our communities of communes, wherever transport organizing authorities exist, it is this system of public service delegation that allows the authority to set the terms of the public service contract through which the inhabitants of these territories can benefit from a public transport service, which obviously does not prevent the authorities who wish to do so from prioritising the regime of governance. It is therefore this philosophy that was adopted in 2016 at European level, through the OSP regulation, and that should continue to inspire us today. Our differences also concern the future status of railway workers. The fourth railway package does not require the termination of this status, as it is written in black and white that the staff provisions fall within the scope of national legislation. The status of railway workers is more than a symbol: they are rights attached to particular working conditions. As you know, these conditions are also linked to the level of safety we expect from rail service in our country, about which nothing should be neglected, and which requires particular hardships, staggered schedules and a continuous presence of staff. Thus, many railway workers do their jobs under conditions which certainly have nothing to do with those of the last century but which remain difficult and of course call our attention. I repeat, there is no provision in the fourth railway package requiring that the status of railway operators be extinguished. Moreover, the famous law of 4 August 2014 provides for a social contract and the launch of a collective agreement at the railway branch level that will allow to discuss again the organisation of work, vocational training, maintenance and a number of essential topics. Of course, railway workers are not hostile to improving working conditions and looking for productivity gains – no one will say otherwise – but all this can be done perfectly without affecting their status, believe me! Evidence of this is the major advance of the railway industry's collective agreement. As far as the status is concerned, we are often opposed to the same argument: from the moment other railway operators use the French network, everyone should be treated fairly. This argument is a little specious or even dangerous. Why? Because other situations can be considered. For example, there are public hospitals and private clinics, which are in competition; Public hospital staff enjoy a special status, yet no one would have the idea of aligning, in the name of the principle of equity, the situations of the staff of these two types of institutions. Given the principle of job security, the special working conditions, but also the difficulties of recruitment which the SNCF sometimes experiences, particularly in the Île-de-France region, it is important to maintain this status at all costs, to avoid its extinction which neither Europe nor those who want to have an efficient and robust network demand. Nor do we agree on the issue of debt. On that, a lot has been said. I know, Madam Minister, that you are not responsible for this debt and that you obviously do not want it to continue. However, we have to say things to each other. You know, like me, that at the time of the creation of RFF in 1997, the debt amounted to EUR 20.9 billion: it was from the country's debt, which was the result of the creation of this network, which made it possible to irrigate the entire national territory without forgetting any region. Between 1997 and 2001, the increase in debt was, in all, reasonable: around 2 per cent. After an initial increase linked to the first phase of construction of the European East high-speed line, the Government decided in 2009 at the end of the Grenelle de l'Environnement and shortly before the launch, in 2011, of the railway bases, to achieve four LGVs at the same time: the extension of the European East line; the South Europe Atlantic line to Bordeaux; the Bretagne- Pays de la Loire line; the railway bypass of Nîmes and Montpellier. As you know, this 2009 decision resulted in a significant increase in debt. The State has begun the construction of 700 kilometres of new roads leaving the slate to the SNCF. As you said yourself, Madam Minister, as well as the rapporteur and the draftsman, as well as the various speakers in committee: the choice of favouring the "all-GMT" for years has led to a significant increase in SNCF's debt, to the point that it reaches the present level of almost EUR 47 billion. Again, in the area of debt, we must go back to what was decided in August 2014 in the law on railway reform. First, it was decided to apply what has been called the "golden rule", as a means of containing this famous debt which was constantly inflating and which weighs as a burden on the SNCF. The aim was to ensure that SNCF Réseau did not commit to new investments without having the means to do so, on the basis of a principle that could be summarized as "who decides to pay". When the State makes decisions, as it has done with regard to the creation of broad lines, it must bear the financial consequences. In addition, performance contracts have been established between the State and the various EPICs – public industrial and commercial establishments – including SNCF Network, providing for a fiscal trajectory and productivity efforts. As you said in committee, Madam Minister, in 2014 the Government was asked to submit a report on the issue of debt within two years, that is, in 2016. According to this report – it was written black and white – if the golden rule and the fiscal trajectory were to be respected, if productivity efforts were to be maintained, SNCF's debt would be manageable, but the situation would have to be reviewed three years later, at the time of the performance contract appointment, to answer this important question, which is sometimes a dead end in your proposals. SNCF Réseau now spends nearly €1.5 billion in financial costs for debt servicing. This money allocated to the debt is as much that is not spent on the maintenance or regeneration of the existing network. Since the opening to competition of the railway sector was decided in Germany in 1994, the German State has twice decided to take over Deutsche Bahn's debt. This example must inspire us today in France. Nor do we agree on the issue of investment. Others have said this before me, because we can all see in our territories, either through our experience as a user, or through the testimonies of our fellow citizens or the railwaymen themselves, that trains are slowing down and are increasingly late on the more than 5000 kilometres of track in our country. It is simply the aging of tracks, track equipment and trains – in short, the outdated network – that is at issue. We're not the only ones to say that. Moreover, this is not a new observation: as you said, Madam Minister, it was already done in 2005 following the work carried out by the École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne, under the direction of Professor Robert Rivier, who was in your direction. The need to allocate significant resources to the maintenance, regeneration and maintenance of the network was confirmed in 2012. It must be admitted that a catch-up process had been initiated with the major plan to modernise the network, which allowed 10 million euros to be injected to meet this requirement. But in 2014, the president of SNCF Réseau, Jacques Rapoport, himself said at a hearing in the Senate that the situation was dramatic and that the level of underinvestment could become dangerous. Unfortunately, this prediction has been confirmed recently, with dramatic repeated breakdowns at Montparnasse station or Saint-Lazare station. Some technical levels no longer correspond to each other. As you said, Madam Minister, there is a real job to be done. Moreover, it is no coincidence that, in the performance contract concluded in 2017 between the State and SNCF Réseau, 46 billion euros of investments were planned over ten years, i.e. between 2017 and 2026. For your part, Madam Minister, you have announced EUR 10 million of investments a day. This confirms your willingness to invest in the existing network, and I believe it is essential. Finally, Madam Minister, we do not agree on the future of the public railway group. Nothing, I repeat, in the fourth railway package indicates that it is necessary to transform the group, as it was designed in 2014 – that is, in the form of three EPICs – into a public limited company. Of course, I am aware of the judgment on La Poste delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which, with regard to State aid, examined this situation by trying to push France to change its shoulder rifle a bit. However, the integrated model of Deutsche Bahn, which seems to be the one which has the preference of the Government, is also not without some remarks from Europe. I would like to stress two points, which are of concern to us. The first of these concerns is that, as you know, when public institutions were transformed into public limited liability companies, it was often the beginning of privatisation – we see it today with ADP and with French gaming, and we have seen it before with GDF and EDF. This threat is obviously present. We can certainly be told – and we can vote – that it is a public limited company with incessible public capital, but history teaches us that statements and what is voted for can very quickly, over time, faint, evaporate and, so to speak, go to the trap. We have very serious concerns about this. Another important underlying question, which you know, is that telephony cannot be compared with rail. Indeed, the current network, Mr. President, is what economists and specialists call a "natural monopoly". This network of railway lines which innerve our country and connect, from one end to the other, all our spaces was built by the French, by the effort of all: this is what I would be tempted to call the "good debt" of the SNCF. This network and our heritage. By turning the EPIC SNCF Réseau into a public limited company, you do not sanctify it: you put what is an essential asset for us at the mercy of private predators, at the mercy of a form of privatisation which, if not considered today, is no less possible tomorrow. It is therefore important to maintain, at all costs, the network and rail in the form of a public establishment, i.e. as part of our heritage. Moreover, this is in line with what Europe is now thinking: the separation between the infrastructure manager and the operators obviously leads to the infrastructure manager, SNCF Réseau, being a kind of public emanation, an overtaking of the state by itself, which it is important to keep. So you see that many lines separate us. As one train can hide another, this reform can hide another. It is clear from the question of status that what is happening is unfortunately guided less by a desire to improve the service and the railway system than by a symbol and a totem. Many of us think that what is important to answer both the users and the French is to tackle the real problems that, as you see, are on the table and to which we collectively have to respond. In this area, I believe, it would have taken a little less ideology. I have been hearing many comments on competition for several weeks. Everywhere, everyone quotes their examples, sometimes forgetting some of the data that are on the table. The Boston Consulting Group, which many here probably know and which is not frankly a think tank or a left-wing firm, has had fun evaluating performance in twenty-four European countries, which have been sifted through an indicator created from scratch to verify the performance of the various companies in these countries: in 2012, France ranked second – it is true that in 2015, it was in the fourth place, then in 2017, in the seventh.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u116	That is why reform is needed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u117	Here is the interesting point clearly highlighted in this BCG report: what makes the difference in performance is not so much the degree of openness to competition, nor even the organisation of work,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u118	It's the investment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u119	...but public investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u120	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u121	What makes the massive difference, from one end to the other of the twenty-four situations compared across Europe, is the level of investment. If we are all looking with Chimène's eyes at the situation in Deutsche Bahn, it is not only because in Germany the state has taken over the debt, but also because public investment is also much higher than we have done so far, including in previous years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u122	That's what we're gonna do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u123	A number of questions are therefore on the table. Germany is cited as a rather successful model. At the same time, everyone can see that in England this has not been the case frankly. We're quoting surveys here and there. For example, the British, recently surveyed on their appreciation of their rail system, are 78% willing to return to a public system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u124	I read that 83% of them were satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u125	In this area, it is necessary to be both pragmatic and reasonable when comparing situations between them, in order to avoid falling into caricature. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] Minister, since the deadline for opening up to competition is December of this year, and since we have all the necessary data on the table, we have time to succeed in a reform that meets our requirement to design a major public service, with the primary objective of providing the service that we owe to users and the French. Between the status quo and the chamboule - everything, there is room for a reform that guarantees us to be able to rely, tomorrow, in France, on a major public railway service. That is all the users and the French expect today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u126	In the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor, in the case of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u127	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I wanted to express myself because, listening to what was said earlier, we sometimes think that a lie train can hide another one. We have heard incredible things that will make us vote with pleasure on this motion of rejection. You are claiming, Madam Minister, under the silent applause of our colleagues in the La République group on the move, that you are going to invest 36 billion euros in the next ten years, when it was planned, in April 2017, to invest 46 billion euros: you are subtilizing 10 billion euros and you dare to present this to us as a step forward!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u128	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u129	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Similarly, you dare to quote historical references by presenting yourself as the continuators of the Front populaire government, which, in 1937, had formed a national company, but you forget to specify that, on 31 August 1937, when SNCF became a national company, a derogation from the trade code precisely provided for avoiding its submission to competition, by creating a public monopoly. Again, you falsify the story to put a bad blow on the public service. We will not allow you to do so because your reform does not take into account any of the real problems our fellow citizens face when they take the train, caused by the deterioration of working conditions, because of the abolition of nearly 100,000 railway stations. Tension at work, delays: nothing will be solved by what you are doing. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Similarly, as our colleague from the New Left Group said, why should the status of railway workers be affected, even though you were not even asked to do so? You want to wear to the belt the scalps of employees who have always been in the front line to defend their work tool. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Yes, Madam Minister, you are continuing with the arrogant Juppé government, which in 1997 wanted to strike a bad blow, before the mobilization forced it to step back. That is why we will vote on the motion to reject beforehand, listening calmly to the same things as the so-called Juppé, who said he was right in his boots. We did, however, push him back. We'll put you back, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u130	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u131	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I will say this with a smile: we will, of course, vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u133	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u134	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u135	First of all, Madam Minister, because, contrary to what you say, it is indeed a step in the right direction, which you have engaged in on the basis of mobility by partitioning the political debate, prohibiting all the partners from deciding and discussing SNCF in line with all the questions relating to mobility in our country, and by using the liberal expert, Mr Spinetta, who of course served you on a set of elements of your orders – that you have also rushed to merge, in an anarchic way, into the common law, to the detriment of the work of parliamentarians. We will also vote on this motion of rejection because you are building a reform on misdeeds, which our colleague Christophe Bouillon has shown to you. You say that the status of the company and that of the employees are at the root of the situation which the SNCF is experiencing, by completely ignoring, in your reform, the question of restoring a sound financial situation for the company. [[Smile]] Finally, and this is the only thing that we agree with, you are certainly in continuity, but it is the one that our colleague Corbière has just recalled: that of the authoritarian liberals of Mr Juppé's temper, who are in fact very much present on your benches and whom I greet by the way, because I know them right in their boots.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u136	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u137	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] But we are, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u138	The next speaker is Mr Vincent Thiébaut, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u139	We will, of course, vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. Why? We have heard of the reform of the SNCF for more than twenty years, and no one has had the courage to do so. This economic model needs to be changed – I would remind you that in 20 years the debt has increased from €20 billion to €50 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u140	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u141	You're telling us we're dealing with the status. More than 10% of SNCF employees are not covered by the Staff Regulations, but are contracted,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u142	Titularize them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u143	... for the past two years, the social partners have been working on a collective agreement designed precisely to give them more benefit from conditions which are in line with the railway trades. On the other hand, you're talking about opening up to competition. In the British model, it took ten years to reach the standards. But Germany was able to save small lines by opening up to competition. With regard to opening up, Madam Minister, I welcome the application of the European directives which will allow SNCF and the French railway to open up to their European partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u144	What for?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u145	Just to save small lines and improve communications with other countries. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We are in a spirit of openness: it is because we love SNCF and want to save this company that we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u146	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Marie Sermier, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u147	Madam Minister, you can see that, in this Chamber, some cross-sectional lines have not been crossed, which we could have debated very extensively in committee. We have not had the debate we should have had on the reform of the SNCF and, more broadly, on the reform of the entire French rail system, asking ourselves who will be responsible for the small lines tomorrow and how the debt will be managed. We have indeed been seized of a sloppy text, with orders that, over the hours, have changed the nature of the parliamentary debate. A moment ago, Christophe Bouillon said quite rightly that this text was intended first of all to open up to competition. It comes from afar, as has been pointed out on all the benches of this assembly – and as for us, we assume it. Of course, this has not progressed as fast as we would have liked, but all the laws, texts and successive governments have never called into question openness to competition, simply because it probably makes it possible to be more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u148	So explain to us how competition improves service!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u149	However, it deserves to be seriously supervised and organized, after a debate worthy of that name. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] That is why, on the substance, we cannot vote on this motion of rejection beforehand: we will abstain. We believe, however, that it is important to return to committee: for this reason, Valérie Beauvais will defend a motion for referral to committee in a moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u150	Mr Bruno Millienne, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u151	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] This discussion of the future of SNCF is fun: if I believe our friends from the left side of the Chamber, they do not want to change much. If nothing changes, you will be the fosseurs of SNCF! The SNCF, which opens up to competition, cannot remain in this state: 3 billion euros more debt a year, admit that it is unbearable! It is therefore essential that the SNCF be reformed. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] You also accuse the Government of dogmatism, while, since the beginning of this discussion on SNCF, you are dogmatics. We, too, have met with trade unions: they are fully prepared to assist the Government in this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u152	Which ones? The MEDEF? The SMEC to the rigor, but that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u153	Give us one name!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u154	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] I met one not long ago, last Monday! He's okay with the reform, he said it on LCI!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u155	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u156	This reform is absolutely necessary because the SNCF must be transformed in order to open up to competition. You shouldn't fear her like this because she creates a healthy emulation and will allow the user to receive a service up to what he pays, which is not the case today, Mr Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u157	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u158	The interest of the user must pass first. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] As for the status, let's go! You keep saying that we must not change the status, but when we answer that it is a privilege, you say that it is not true. If it's not a privilege, why don't we change it, then? Why do you cling to status like that? You'd have to explain to me because I don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u159	Why don't you go ask the railwaymen?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u160	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] You have therefore understood that we will not vote on this motion to reject beforehand: we want to discuss this text in the Chamber in order to finally move forward and save the SNCF, while you are the fosseurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to be a little respectful of the words that would not be issued by the leaders of your group. On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr Guy Bricout, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u162	We are very surprised that this motion for a preliminary rejection was tabled by the New Left Group. I would remind you that the purpose of such a motion is to have the proposed text recognized as being contrary to the Constitution or to have it decided that there is no need to deliberate. We must transpose the fourth railway package before December. Adopting this motion of rejection would therefore mean taking even more time on schedule. All successive governments since the beginning of the 2000s have laid the groundwork for opening up to competition, including the socialist government, with its railway reform in 2014; If it had gone to the end of this logic, openness to competition could have been prepared further upstream, and we would not have had everything to do this year. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Contrary to what is understood on certain television sets, refusing this text would be tantamount to rejecting a provision laid down in European texts for the benefit of the consumer. It would also be a refusal to allow SNCF to have all the means to do its part and to be effective in a competitive environment. The IUD, Act and Independent Group will therefore not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u163	The next speaker is Mr Boris Vallaud, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u164	You will not be surprised if we vote on this motion to reject it beforehand. To return to the reasons given, it was the majority that made it clear to us that this bill contains a number of politically, economically and socially unfounded proposals. If this motion is not adopted, we will obviously participate in the debate on the substance, but, as Christophe Bouillon has said, we are challenging the text, the context and the pretext. It is unpleasant to hear that this majority, both on this subject and on many others, claims to repair thirty years of turpitude, incompetence and clientelism. I find this rather disrespectful for previous national representations, whose legitimacy was no less strong than the current one. If we propose a motion of rejection, it is because we do not share your diagnosis. In essence, you are not addressing any of the two real issues: the recovery of debt and the level of investment, which, according to the comments I have heard, will not meet the target and management contract signed a year ago, which provided for €46 billion of investment. So you will do less than what was agreed between the state and the SNCF in this document, yet signed by one of the ministers of your government. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u165	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u166	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u167	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development, Mr Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Rapporteur, Mr Draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Republicans Group has wished to table a motion for referral to committee concerning the bill for a new railway pact, which is before us. A few years ago, SNCF had the slogan: "It is up to us to make you prefer the train". Members of the Republicans Group, we love the train and we love SNCF, but we also love Parliament, the National Assembly and its discussions, which contribute to the public debate. This does not seem to be the case for this majority. In recent weeks, many statements were made by the majority aimed at stifling the right of amendment inherent in the parliamentary function – a limited deposit based on representativeness, a ban on resubmitting an amendment already presented in committee in public sittings, etc. –, not to mention the Minister of Justice, who allowed herself to make a judgment on the "quality" of the amendments tabled. So yes, Madam Minister, it is up to us, elected Republicans, to make you enjoy the parliamentary debate! With this bill, you intend to carry out an essential and important reform, not only for SNCF and railway operators, for French and French rail users, but also for many areas served by a railway station. However, on a project of such importance, what is your method? To table a written bill not on the edge of a table but as the situation evolves – strikes, demands and meetings with the social partners. In doing so, you have presented us with a text containing only eight articles, seven of which refer to government authorizations to use orders. You will retort me that, for several days, you have changed. However, this fact prompts me to think that either the reform you are announcing will be partial or limited, or the text has been tabled in haste, in the absence of any prior consultation, or you do not wish to reveal your intentions, thinking thus to avoid any conflict. I will not remind you of the Speech of the Method but, at least, of the method that you have assigned to yourself. You announced, at the opening of the foundations of mobility last September, first a law of orientation on mobility, then a law of programming on infrastructure and finally a law on railway. There was a real coherence and a logic of debate to respond to mobility issues and prospects, as well as to rail issues. The logic has been reversed since the bill for a new railway pact is the first piece of legislation you are submitting to our review, when it should have been the last. I believe, Madam Minister, that you are confusing speed with haste: wanting to reform quickly is one thing, acting in haste and flouting parliamentary debate is another. After the publication of the Duron and Spinetta reports, you had the time to think about it, leading you to engage in multilateral discussions with SNCF, trade unions, users and local authorities. You have not made this choice and it is regrettable. Therefore, in order to address the shortcomings of the text, you have introduced articles by way of amendment, already in committee and throughout this weekend – this is ironic in the current constitutional debate – thus depriving Members of the time they need to examine them. I would add that these new provisions, responding to certain claims, have not been the subject of serious impact studies, thus depriving national representation of objective and non-partisan elements of discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u168	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u169	On the form, the Republican Group had imagined a real discussion in committee, which would have fed the projects and thus contributed to a real parliamentary debate in open session. That is why we are asking for the text to be referred back to the committee for further consideration. The Republicans consider that this new examination should enable us, in accordance with the principles of the parliamentary debate, to enrich and supplement this text on the following aspects: the use of ordinances; the debt of SNCF, a central subject; the least frequented lines of the network. The procedure of orders is all the less justified since it is both a public service mission to be carried out for our fellow citizens and a strategic vision of the State, which is fundamental to the balance of the territories. How do you justify, Madam Minister, the conciseness of this text, if it is not the will to circumvent the parliamentary debate? The Republican Group believes that rail transport deserves better than eight articles, the purpose of which is to give guidance and open chapters. First of all, by means of the ordinances, then by means of amendments decided upon in the negotiations with the trade unions, the Government showed lightness, taking hostage the population blocked by massive strikes, robbing the trade unions and contempting the elected representatives of the nation. Finally, national representation will not be aware of the content of the orders until they are drafted. So you put the file on the table when it is not yet written and the essential issues related to rail transport are missing. But then, why didn't you start with the negotiations before you presented a text? SNCF's debt is a fundamental problem, I repeat: it reached 42 billion euros in 2016 and could exceed 62 billion euros in 2026. Should such a drift be seen in such a way as to be impassive? We don't believe that. That is why, Madam Minister, we would like you to have commitments and clarifications on this matter. It would appear that the Government is planning to resume SNCF Réseau's debt, amounting to €36 billion out of €46 billion, through an ad hoc structure, which would be housed within SNCF, not directly, so as not to burden public finances. Together with my colleagues, we regret that the Government remains very vague about the installation of this mechanism. We want a clear response to the debt problem and, in particular, to know the state of SNCF network's debt ratio. This was fixed, during the 2014 railway reform, by the adoption of a golden rule; the former majority made it fly, the majority to which then belonged a number of deputies of the present majority... We cannot avoid this debate because, if the debt weighs on SNCF, it is not entirely attributable to the company. In 2017, SNCF Mobilitys completed an excellent exercise: its activity grew by 4.7%, to 31.8 billion euros, thanks to the activity of the TGV, which saw an increase in its turnover by 8.7%, as well as an increase in its traffic by 10%. In addition, regional and Intercity train traffic has also seen an increase in activity. In addition, there are exceptional elements generated by so-called tax credits "to be claimed in the future", bringing the net result to EUR 1.13 billion. There are therefore reasons to hope, as Guillaume Pepy points out: "The group's recurring net result has been the best in many years. But it has to be relativized: it accounts for 2% of turnover, which is at the bottom of the range in public service companies. Our cash flow is also too low and we must not forget the structural debt of SNCF Réseau, which continues to grow. But, as the Chairman of the SNCF Executive Board also points out, the issue of structural debt is more important than ever and SNCF is not the only one responsible. The State also has its share of responsibility and must therefore assume it. So, minister, how can you justify the lack of consideration of this question? Is that indifference? I don't believe it. Is this a political choice to put the subject under control? I don't hope so. You will therefore allow us to question your real intentions in this regard. On this issue of debt, I will conclude with the notable lack of clarification on the future governance of SNCF. The only certainty we have is that of the negative impact of debt on SNCF Mobility and SNCF Network entities. Your answer to the problem is to create a national public-capital company. But again, in the absence of tangible elements, how do you want us to adopt and support such a proposal? Minister, at this stage of the discussion, the creation of this new structure raises more questions than it provides answers. What will become of the leading EPIC SNCF? How will the €36 billion debt recovery scheme work? Will you follow the example of Germany? Or, as you said in committee, "to resume debt today is to be confronted, in the future, with a new debt"? However, if competition is real and serious, it will be the concessionary companies that will have to assume this hypothetical debt, not the state. Depending on the legal structure chosen, what will become the status of the railway for new hires, and from when? What about the special pension scheme? In our view, these questions are far too numerous and cause too much uncertainty about the future of SNCF in general. As several colleagues have said, if we had had these debates in committee, I should not, at this moment, justify a motion for referral back to committee. Finally, the Republicans, but also several other colleagues in this House, I am sure, have concerns about the sustainability of the network's less frequented lines. Before I elaborate on my point, I am already wondering what "less frequented lines" might mean. From what threshold should a line be considered less frequented? How do you consider a line to be less frequented if it serves only a balanced village or a rural municipality with a limited number of inhabitants? Admit, Madam Minister, that the use of the stations of Bazancourt, in my constituency, of Fismes, in the Marne, and of many others in France cannot match those of the great metropolises. However, this rosary of services, which is the fruit of the SNCF's history and which contributes to the planning of the territory, is a real offer of mobility for a large number of our fellow citizens. You see well, Madam Minister, the whole point of respecting your departure method: first mobility and then rail transport through the capillary. To do the opposite is as if, to build a house, we started the walls before the foundations. These lines will be all the more useful and borrowed as France intends to be a model for reducing CO emissions. Reducing individual journeys via the road will be at the heart of tomorrow's mobility challenges. If these lines are deleted, how will people who reside near these stations travel to work, study or go to a cultural or sporting event? If these lines are transferred to the regions, which face real budgetary difficulties, they will be unable to maintain them. Again, you do not answer or, more precisely, you answer by a pirouette: lately, in committee, you have explained to us that everyone will have to take responsibility. The committee on this text is responsible for sustainable development, but also for spatial planning, which you seem to have forgotten. A new territorial divide is obviously not desirable. We, elected Republicans, consider that these lines must continue because they will tomorrow be alternatives to mobility for some of our fellow citizens who do not use them today. Instead of condemning them, let us make sure to develop them and adapt them to future needs! This is a real political choice, a real spatial planning policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u170	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u171	Madam Minister, I believe you have a schematic view of the mobility of everyday life, which would be based on a pendulum transport made of home-to-work journeys. But reality is more complex, more diverse. Keep in mind that the rationalization of university, judicial and hospital maps has forced citizens to travel more to access public services! Let's not have a restricted mobility offer! In the debate on mobility, which you have reversed, rail transport must take its full place. Let us not limit ourselves to an accounting vision, based on the ratios of the number of passengers transported! Will the railway pact maintain secondary lines, strengthen daily transport, improve intermodality? Minister, the French appreciate their train, they look kindly at the SNCF and they love their railwaymen. So do we! We know that the cost of the service is not appropriate, that the investments have not enabled the profitability of a number of lines, that the specifications of the installations are far too complicated, that the quality of the service has deteriorated over the years, and that the ageing of the network is extremely worrying. We are in favour of modernising and reorganising SNCF to adapt the incumbent, indebted and non-competitive operator to competition with other operators on the French network. To this end, it is necessary to prepare and organise the competition for passenger transport, by transposing into French law the final stage of a European process which was decided by four successive railway packages, of which the first date of the 1990s. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] But the method is not there, I repeat. We ask you to work conscientiously, with representatives of the company and especially with Parliament. That is why the bill must be re-examined in committee. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u172	In the explanations of vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee, Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor, in the case of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u173	I would like to return to the conditions of this discussion, which are absolutely deplorable. In committee, the Government tabled amendments in catini during the Easter weekend: Monday was a holiday and, as of Tuesday, we were examining them in committee. Rebel last weekend: it has been discovered that amendments to Article 1 of the text have been tabled, not least, since the aim was to increase the duration of the authorization from six to twelve months. If you need time, then let's go back to committee to discuss precisely the content of this text! One amendment, dealing with the status of public limited liability company, is extraordinarily vague. Now, as we often say, "When it's blurred, there's a wolf. What you draw there, in fact, is a holding company to commit a hold-up on the rail, our common good. What should also be noted is that, through these amendments, you are trying to make us believe that you are taking discussions into account. No reference to climate was foreseen. In these amendments, you have added twice the term "sustainable development" to the rush to mask the absence of this problem, which is not the least when it comes to land use planning and ecological transition. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the LR and GDR groups]] For the past two weeks, on all television sets, you and other members of the Government have accused all those involved in this reform, including railway workers, of refusing dialogue. In fact, the way you have built this discussion shows your contempt for Parliament. I would therefore be pleased if this motion for referral to committee were adopted, together with our colleagues in the Republican Group and all the Members of the House of Commons present here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u174	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u175	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the draftsman, your silence in the face of these motions is deafening. We will vote on the motion for referral back to committee, even if our analysis differs, first of all to enable us to obtain what European texts require: a first assessment of the openness to competition in the rail sector. Freight has been liberalized since 2006, and even 2003 for international freight, and you know the catastrophic balance of this opening to competition: absolute social break, reduction of freight from 17 to 10%, colossal environmental cost, increased indebtedness, increased truck traffic. We will vote in favour of referral back to committee also to allow anger to spread, to prosper, and to nurture the idea that those who defend public rail service are not attached to the status quo, contrary to what you claim. We have made concrete, demanding proposals to take into account the hard work of daily trains. We have put forward proposals to desend the SNCF. We have made concrete proposals to reserve the product of the TICEP – the domestic consumption tax on energy products – for transport infrastructure. Finally, Madam Minister, we will vote for referral to committee for a third reason. You say that you don't touch the small lines, that you're going to transfer them to the regions...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u176	I never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u177	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] ...and that you will ensure that they are preserved. However, a few days ago, when two regional presidents and three parliamentarians seized the case of the Abbeville line – Le Tréport – this line of life that brought together the fighting left – while Xavier Bertrand said he was willing to finance it at 50%, you answered them by silence, renouncing to take care of the territories of life, in accordance with what the Spinetta report recommends. Your reform will lead to the abandonment of the humiliations of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u178	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u179	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor for the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u180	Reforming means taking responsibility for the millions of users. We are doing so, with this new railway pact, so that this service remains a common good. It is not a question of opposing the railwaymen to the French, the old governments to the new ones, but rather of charting a path for a stronger SNCF, committed to its values and ready to face the future. Users want more security and reliability of the network, but also lower rates and better quality of service. The deterioration of the quality of service, the consequences that our fellow citizens suffer as a result of these shortcomings, we all know them. The situation can't last any longer. No one here imputes him to the railwaymen. This is largely the responsibility of the State, which has not been able to identify priorities and set itself as a strategist. We are surprised by this request for referral back to committee from our colleagues, the Republicans, who say we like SNCF. We love him too, but that's not the point. The current status of EPIC is too rigid. It has to be transformed. We need openness to competition, which is beneficial for the millions of French who take the train every day. We are concerned not only with providing them with a quality service, but also with considering the representation of rail transport users, as some amendments propose. Moreover, the State takes on its responsibilities by strengthening its participation and will invest more than it has ever done. The reform will develop the railway and train of the twenty-first century. Contrary to what is said, this reform does not involve the closure of small lines; Their future will be decided as closely as possible to the realities on the ground, as has often been requested. We did not vote for the opening up to competition, which is simply the transposition of the fourth railway package, negotiated in 2016. What is certain is that we will do everything possible to ensure that it is carried out in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u181	Thank you, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u182	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This reform, together with the text on mobility, which will be discussed this autumn, will enable measures to be taken to meet the expectations of our citizens. Let us therefore take the time for debate in this Chamber: let us debate calmly, without shortcuts, without demagogy and with responsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u183	On the motion for referral back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Valérie Lacroute, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u184	The Republican Group will, of course, vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee. As my colleague has just explained in detail, a reform of this magnitude deserves better than a bill of eight articles, a series of ordinances amended many times and amendments, some of which were only unveiled this morning. There is nothing in the text about debt, Madam Minister, even though I understand that you are going to prepare something on its resumption. It seems to me important that our group, together with all of our colleagues, be able to analyse this debt in detail, given its size, to understand its operation, to measure its ins and outs, and to understand the intentions of the State with regard to its recovery. You also mentioned – as we saw with the amendments tabled this morning – the change in the legal status of SNCF. On this point too, we need, together, to understand the stakes and to know your intentions. Should we imagine a leading EPIC, not deleted but integrated into a larger group? You also entrusted me, Madam Minister, with the chairing of the group on "more intermodal mobility" as part of the preparation of the mobility bill. We have worked hard to complete the synthesis in due course, i.e. in mid-December. I find it regrettable that this text is being examined after the reform of the SNCF and the opening up of the railway to competition. It would have seemed to me better to proceed in the opposite order. Finally, with this discussion, the French are taken hostage. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of this motion. We believe it is necessary, I repeat, to continue the discussions on this important text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u185	The next speaker is Mrs Florence Lasserre-David, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u186	Contrary to what our colleague from the LR Group said, we do not feel that we were forced to table the amendments. The method of working on this text had long been announced by the Minister. Of course, the deadlines for examining and tabling amendments have been forced, but we believe that we have done enough work on this text in committee, where there has been a broad consensus on several occasions. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For these reasons, we will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u187	The next speaker is Mr Guy Bricout, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u188	We hear the questions of the Republicans group, which focus on form. The way of ordinances cannot please us, but this is an option given to the Government by the 1958 Constitution. We were also reluctant at the beginning; But the Government has gradually fulfilled its commitment to include in the law the most important points: the status and legal form of the SNCF, the questions of transfer of personnel, the timetable for opening up to competition, the modalities of data transmission and the specific timetable applicable to the Île-de-France region. The provisions that remain within the scope of the authorization are technical, for the most part, or fall within the scope of the transposition of directives, an exercise which is far from unusual in this House. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] The debates in committee have been rich, and it is important to move forward. We will therefore not vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u190	[[Applause on a few benches of the NG group]] Mr Olivier Faure has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u191	[[Smile]] What enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u192	You can applause me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u193	If you abjure the directive, we will believe you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u194	I never abjure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u195	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u196	Our group will vote on the motion for referral to committee, for reasons that are quite simple to understand. The Government has initiated the parliamentary debate, although it has not taken up the negotiation with the social partners until the end. You alternate, Madam Minister, the carrot and the stick: it is sometimes the ordinances, sometimes amendments and a negotiation that is not one. The railwaymen and their unions, which I am listening to, all say the same thing, including those who are ready to change the SNCF. On all of our benches, I believe, we are all aware of the need for such a development, for a quality public service; But it must not be driven any way, or at any price. What we feel is that we have sought to use the argument of opening up to competition to change a statute, even though, under the terms of the negotiations initiated by the previous Government, the social framework had to remain national. There is therefore no link between the Statute you intend to amend and what was voted in the European Parliament in 2014.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u197	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u198	We would have liked to have made a clear reference to the debt, the necessary investments – in particular the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, AFITF – and the possible advances for the collective agreement and the real rights granted to employees, those of today and those of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u199	Thank you, Mr Faure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u200	We would have liked to see, I said, that convergence is possible on all these subjects. For now, you are refusing to negotiate, limiting yourself to a vision that you claim to be alone. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] That is why you will be confronted with the anger of the railwaymen, but also of the users and the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u201	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u202	In the general debate, Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u203	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, this text, wrongly entitled 'for a new railway pact', aims to reform the SNCF, but it is devoid of any future strategy for the French railway. He claims to lift the barriers that may prevent opening up to competition but, once again, he illustrates your unequal policy, which serves a few to the detriment of the large number. The competition is here. Multiple companies share the network, without communication or links. The incidents are numerous and the service deplorable. Debt is accumulating. It's 1937. To be modern, effective is not to reproduce the mistakes of the last century. It's thinking of another model.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u204	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u205	In 1997, twenty years ago, a reform had cut the SNCF into two. It was preparing the arrival of private companies on a network built and maintained by public money, to compete with SNCF on the most profitable lines, according to the old recipe: cost sharing and privatisation of profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u206	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u207	The pseudo-reform of 2014 has, in fact, accentuated the dismantling by creating three structures instead of two. Hello simplification! SNCF is in fact the toy of liberal policies that have blurred its functioning and effectiveness. Openness to competition, you have been preparing it for thirty years by methodically dismantling the public company. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In order to justify yourself, you explain that you are only implementing the European directives in a good way. In fact, you have applied successive railway packages with the utmost zeal, even though the French firmly rejected this savage liberalism by saying "no" to the European Treaty in 2005.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u208	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u209	In addition, you are lying by omission, Madam Minister. In 1997, then advisor to the Minister of Transport,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u210	Yes! It was her already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u211	... you had separated SNCF into two separate activities, between the railway operator and the network manager, with the creation of Réseau ferré de France. However, you have left out part of the directive, which called for the recovery of the debt by the State. You preferred to hide it under RFF's carpet. Germany, whose praise you are praising us, has already taken over the debt of its national operator since 1992. No, Madam Minister: you cannot hide behind European directives applied with variable geometry, or even choose the ones you like. Can you tell me, and with you your minister responsible, Mr Hulot, a few words from the European directive on air quality, which led France to be condemned? Although it has a direct connection to our transportation system,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u212	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u213	...she doesn't seem to force you very much. Everyone sees the string: the guidelines are when it suits you, to tap on the agents of the SNCF, who are the most combative against your unequal policies and those of your predecessors. These reforms have profoundly weakened the rail network by depriving it of the resources necessary for its maintenance and modernisation, resulting in all the dysfunctions that we are experiencing today. Even more sneaky, SNCF has organised internal competition by creating a thousand subsidiaries in freight, road and freight transport, passenger transport and maintenance companies. These entities have developed to compete front-end with SNCF on its own network and in the juiciest markets. As proof, for example, competition from Geodis trucks, which, a wholly owned subsidiary of SNCF, employs posted workers. The situation would be laughable if it were not so dramatic for the railwaymen, threatened with reclassification, and for our territory which is stifling under the traffic of trucks. All this has led to the desired effect: a company divided and delivered to finance, in order to justify its privatization and the opening up to competition. Speaking of finance, I'm coming up with the debt. This argument of the debt of 46 billion euros, waved by every "flying carrier" of the Government in all the media, allows public opinion to swallow the transition to a national company with public capital, first step towards privatization – the example of GDF in 2004 is there to remind us, despite your denials. This debt is the result of a concerted strategy between a company seeking market share and a State serving the "all-road". It is not the debt of the railwaymen. At the request of political leaders, SNCF invested heavily in TGVs. In order to do so, it was indebted by borrowing on the financial markets. In the last decade, €23 billion has been invested in the TGV. At the same time, government subsidies have been steadily declining. But it looks elsewhere and chooses to subsidize the road, above all, to the detriment of the rail, by investing seven times more and privatizing the motorways. Above all, Madam Minister, there is still one omission in your speech; because talking about debt also means talking about borrowing interest. And to whom have these interests benefited, in an amount of 10 billion euros since 2008? Who are they paid to? Not to the railwaymen, Madam Minister, but to the bankers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u214	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u215	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] And you don't say a word about it! These are the same bankers we saved from bankruptcy in 2008. Madam Minister, the French and French must know that if you do not want to deal with the debt problem, it is in order to continue to serve finance. But the most perverse thing is now that it happens, with your search for the scapegoat. Trains arrive late? It's the railwaymen's fault! The 46 billion debt? The fault of the railwaymen again! They're too expensive, you say. By removing the status for new entrants, you lift the last barrier on the arrival of private companies on the network, which will not have to align from the top with the status of railway workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u216	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u217	You are clearly organizing the social dumping of this branch. As a reminder, the life expectancy of railway workers is lower than the national average, and about 50 railway workers commit suicide each year. So, if there are privileged people at SNCF, that's not where we believe it. In 2017, members of the Executive Committee, MM. Pepy and Jeantet or Minister Parly shared a net remuneration of €2.5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u218	Here they are, the privileged ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u219	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u220	There is no justification for the salaries of these main leaders, given their balance sheet. This is in fact a total failure, with an unmanaged network debt, despite 49 billion euros of tolls collected for twenty years, the freight in trouble and blackouts repeatedly. How can these incompetent people still be stationed? Do they have a particular status?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u221	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u222	That's right, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u223	This is the same as the interest paid to bankers: the problem is the ones you're throwing away public money.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u224	Exactly: it's the oligarchy, the caste!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u225	For you, openness to competition is the magic remedy, which exempts you from taking on your wanderings. Competition, you only have that word in your mouth: it comes out of your eyes and comes back eighty-four times in your bill. You denounce the outdated lines and the lack of track maintenance, but opening up to competition will only worsen the situation. No private company will invest to rehabilitate infrastructure, nor to serve small regional lines. The public service is the only one capable of carrying out these missions, which by their essence are unprofitable. What do you intend to propose to the inhabitants of these territories, apart from the Macron buses? Accidents and delays will increase, as has been the case in the United Kingdom since the privatisation of rail. Private companies will seek to maximize their profits by pursuing a low-wage policy and keeping rolling stock to a minimum. Your vision of rail transport is so archaic that you don't even wonder about its role in spatial planning and the fight against global warming. We wonder whether we still have a ministry of ecological transition, or whether it has definitely taken another referral, putting all its skills at the service of private companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u226	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u227	For us, the public rail transport service is not a burden but a tool for ecological planning and territorial equality. This vision involves not only reinvesting in our network to rehabilitate and modernize it, but also reviewing taxation so that it affects the most polluting modes of transport. This requires reorienting public investment towards the railway, ten times less CO emitters than a car ride. These points, Minister, are not addressed in your project. Rail transport is a public service which must be driven by an integrated public undertaking. It's not a smoking ad from a "more unified company," whose contours you were unable to define when I asked you the question in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u228	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u229	Unless it is this kind of holding, designed by the amendments that the Government has tabled in catmini this weekend, to avoid parliamentary debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u230	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u231	At the financial level, the unified company, a common-sense measure, would also be able to leave with its own capital of EUR 3 billion, so as to restore air to the SNCF and stop the transaction costs between the entities now separated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u232	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u233	These costs are estimated at EUR 1.5 billion per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u234	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u235	In an integrated company, the most profitable lines make it possible to compensate for less frequented services. This is the constitutional principle of equality before the public service. The railway must therefore remain in the direction of the State. Our vision involves resuming the monopoly on rail freight...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u236	Exactly: monopoly! Down with the finance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u237	... and to put an end to the public-private partnerships, inaugurated on the Bordeaux-Tours line, where LISEA VINCI will collect all operating revenues, although the SNCF and the State have invested several billion euros. When you buy a train ticket, you don't pay a shareholder!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u239	SNCF is sick of the competition it has organised itself, sick of a state that has abandoned it for the benefit of the roadman and the airman. We are defending a policy of land-use planning, which will be based on public rail transport, which is central to the ecological transition. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] So, Madam Minister, we definitely say no to the holding-up against a common good, to the benefit of your friends and to the detriment of the users and the railwaymen and railwaymen; and we support unwaveringly those who struggle to prevent this hold-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u240	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u241	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u242	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman, last-minute news: in Germany, transport, hospitals, nurseries and garbagemen have entered into a major strike movement to demand wage increases. Let us come to the situation in France. Let us make it clear, Madam Minister: with your reform, there will be no improvement for the users of the train. First, to do good service, you have to have strong kidneys, and not make others pay for this service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u243	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u244	However, since the vast plan of achievements of the network and the TGV lines – which France must welcome – the governments have not borne the expense that this represented for the State budget but have passed it on to the public undertaking. Today, it is therefore EUR 47 billion that weighs on SNCF, to which must be added 1.7 billion a year of repayments of loans to banks. These billions also weigh on railway workers, as savings have been constantly made on their jobs, with the abolition of 20,000 jobs in ten years. Finally, they weigh on the users, because they pay at a high price the train ticket, through an opaque price maquis. Secondly, to do good service, it is simply necessary to repair and modernize the rails, the cars, the railway stations, which have been the victims of underinvestment for more than thirty years. Minister, you are announcing a financial effort of $36 billion over ten years. This much less ambitious resumption of the 2016 commitment is, of course, insufficient. Above all, this plan will lead to construction sites on and around the tracks for a long time. We must tell users the truth: slowing downs, delays, problems of waiting or correspondence, as they exist today, all these hazards due to the necessary work will last, regardless of the train running on the rails and not counting the day-to-day management of these chronic under-investments. A month ago, three centimetres of snow stopped many machines on the Paris-Rouen - Le Havre line. Traffic was disrupted for 15 days.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u245	Three weeks!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u246	That's the reality of maintenance. Madam Minister, while you were expected to receive a responsible response to the guilty negligence of successive governments, many of whose supporters sit on the benches of your majority today, you respond by applying, without blush, an order from Europe that dictates its solution: liberalise, liberalise and liberalise. Europe tells you to run trains from German or Italian private companies, which will go where there are many customers: even if the rails are sick and the stations uncomfortable, they have benefits to make. As far as small lines are concerned, the less profitable lines as they are said, that the regions manage and choose what they want.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u247	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u248	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u249	If they want to keep the little lines, they can subsidize them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u250	That's what they do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u251	It's the jurisdiction of the region!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u252	The state won't do it. And the French liberals to have a smile, whether they govern the country or lead the politics of a majority of regions. But why, Madam Minister, are you in this mess? It is because it responds to your ideological approach: SNCF, railwaymen, users, it is really the old world for you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u253	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u254	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u255	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] So think, it is a company that is not like others, which must allow everyone to be mobile regardless of their place of residence or social situation. Think, therefore, they are highly qualified employees, with high fees and demanding duties 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u256	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u257	So think, they are users who want to be treated fairly and not as customers offered to the mercantile world. In short, think, it is still a great public service, wounded certainly, but still very effective, that could really cure more the evils of our society – social and territorial inequalities, major damage to the environment. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It's forgetting that in these people, sir, we're talking, yes! – climate, biodiversity, modernity – but we don't. On the contrary, we're undoing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u258	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u259	National rail transport is being defeated for the benefit of the all-roader, a field of social dumping and the worst climatic and health consequences. But there, no one in your camp offends only the nation and the local authorities, therefore the taxpayers, pay the roads and that the effort is even more important than for the iron or the river. National rail transport is being dismantled in favour of its break-up by regions, and an increase in inequalities between rich and less rich territories. Elected representatives of all sensitivities, including on the benches of the majority, sound the alarm in the face of this planned disruption of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u260	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u261	National rail transport is being defeated for the benefit of private companies, with employees and customers considered to be in the private sector. The situation is already complex, with the famous dedicated establishments of the SNCF, these SMEs by lines as they are called, which spoil any mutualization and massification. Madam Minister, you are authorizing this to be used to cut our rail assets.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u262	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u263	In short, the nation is defeated of a property that belongs in solidarity to all the French, to make it a public limited company in the competitive market of rail transport – a public limited company, the SNCF, which you support as the rope supports the hanger.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u264	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u266	Then, you'll tell me, there's no other way. That's not true and you know it. To clean up the debt and completely renovate the railway network is largely possible, if we want to put a bit of political will and a bit of patience in it. First of all, we are going to look for new revenue, for example from motorway concessions or heavy-duty companies, which enjoy considerable privileges to the detriment of the French, whether motorists or not, and we are thus feeding the caisses de l'Etat and the SNCF, with a multiannual programme of debt reduction and investment in our networks and trains. We are improving the way in which we operate, by really changing the internal consumption tax on energy products, even if, I repeat, such heavy work, which will last so long, will continue to cause hazards for travellers. At the same time, it is said to Europe, as the minister says to the Île-de-France, that in France, the opening up to competition towards private railways is not playable because our country has characteristics regarding the distribution of its population – remember Paris and the French desert, the "diagonal of the vacuum", from the Ardennes to the Ariège, passing through the Cantal –, physical geography, size, history of its starry network towards Paris, and a lot of delay to catch up. That is what we say to Europe, as we said in Ile-de-France. He was told that it would be difficult to open up competition to France. However, as de Gaulle said, France loves modernity, but not anarchy. Then Europe is told that we will maintain its OSP regulation and that we will pursue directly with the SNCF and its highly qualified railway companies, indispensable as we undertake a major renovation, including for the small lines that we want to continue to subsidise. As far as we are concerned, we are not sweet dreamers. We know that road transport counts. Moreover, SNCF is very present on the road, in particular – it has been mentioned – with Geodis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u267	Of course, but it's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u268	We are also telling Europe that we are going to put the family in order because the 1200 subsidiaries are terrible children, who eat wool on the back of the parent company.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u269	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u271	We will therefore restore complementarity, where competition has been introduced, between the activities of the SNCF Group, for balanced spatial planning. Finally, we will take our part in the modal transport. To take this path, you have to be progressive. The current French exception in the field of rail transport must be recognised. But you are not, Madam Minister. Far from being the white knights you want to embody, there's at your house all the right Mr. Juppé in his 1995 boots. He is in this Prime Minister and in this authoritarian and liberal right-wing majority. It is a reform which aims, in the underhand, at anything other than improving service to users. It aims to capture the most beautiful hunting trophy the Liberals have long dreamed of: after EDF, GDF, France Télécom and others, it is the public service of SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u272	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u273	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We will therefore continue, alongside the French, the firm of conviction, to push you back and advance these public services to French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u274	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u275	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, this is a major, historic reform that we are considering today. History, because it is a matter of writing in this Chamber a new page in the history of a mode of transport that we all love deeply: the train. For both holidays and everyday life, the train embodies, for each of us, more than just a mode of transport. For almost 200 years, he has revolutionized our way of life, changed our notions of distance and time, and redesigned our territory. It has allowed the development of our cities. It has offered our fellow citizens more than a mode of transport, a way of life, and has given them so much joy, so much freedom – that of moving and enjoying the first paid holidays. Today, it is a matter of writing together, of offering a future to this Société nationale des chemins de fer français, which, while it has just celebrated its 80th anniversary, still has so many prowess to accomplish and so much pride to give to its users, to its employees and to the French. Created in 1938, let us recall, in the form of a public-owned company, the SNCF, has been and remains one of the spearheads of French industry, one of the flagships of the modernity of our country, symbol of a French genius and know-how always in search of innovation. We need to be proud of that. It is precisely because we love our public railway service, its 150,000 employees, its 30,000 kilometres of lines, its 15,000 trains, its 3000 stations, that we must now be able to have a lucid look at the state of its network and its organisation and a language of truth. This was the objective of the Spinetta report: to make an uncompromising diagnosis of the state of the network and the SNCF. For the facts are there: we have a public railway service which, let us recall, costs the taxpayer more and more – 800 euros per household and per year – and which still works less and less well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u276	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u277	Our rail system has been suffering and running out of steam for several decades. He suffers from a jacobinism that has led to political choices for which we are all responsible and for which we are paying the heavy price today;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u278	Leave the jacobinism alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u279	They don't even know what it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u280	...of an ageing and poorly maintained network which has continuously degraded the quality of service due to users;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u281	But who's running the SNCF?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u282	... of a rigid and too ineffective organization, which the previous reforms have failed to remedy; and of an unsustainable economic and financial trajectory, doomed to failure. It is therefore imperative to act, with courage and responsibility, in the interests of the SNCF and its employees, of which I am proud to have been a part,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u283	It's true, in management!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u284	... and for the future of their trades; in the interest of the French and for the quality of the public service they are entitled to expect; in the interests of our territories, urban as well as rural; in the interest of rail transport, which is a major lever of the mobility policy of our daily lives. This is the intention of the bill for a new railway pact, a pact by which our country complies with its Community obligations, namely to complete the opening to competition of the railway sector, whose progressive timetable, proposed by the Government, will be a guarantee of success, thanks to the time left to the organizing authorities to adapt to the changes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u285	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u286	As has happened in neighbouring countries – Germany, Sweden, Italy – or in the fields of telecommunications and energy, opening up to competition will benefit users. More offers, more services, more small prices, more innovations: so much progress that will allow our trains tomorrow to be full and satisfy today's users, who are out of control, discouraged, trapped in incidents, delays and repeated slowdowns. But putting our rail system in this new context of opening up to competition means giving it the assets necessary for its competitiveness. We need to give it the ability to cope with this new competition through a more readable, efficient, flexible and efficient organisation. This is the objective of the bill, which aims to transform the three current EPICs into a unified group of three publicly owned, fully state owned and ineligible companies – and some dare to call it privatization, the same ones that served, in the early 2000s, in a government that privatized more than any other! The conditions necessary for healthy and fair competition are guaranteed, while the service to our territories is preserved. The guarantees given to operators, railway operators, regulators and organising authorities are likely to put an end to all the fantasies and concerns surrounding the reform – a reform which I want to welcome the method, because it is indeed a pact, which respects the word given, through close consultation with all the actors and the introduction of many legislative provisions to the detriment of the ordinances, and which leaves its place in the parliamentary debate, contrary to what some on these benches try to let believe. I am convinced, like my group as a whole, that this crucial reform will enable SNCF, rail transport and all its players to enter a new era of performance and innovation. For, ladies and gentlemen, public service, or rather service to the public, must also comply with requirements: that of more innovative, more efficient, safer, more accessible and less expensive rail transport; cleaner and more sustainable transport. Some, on both sides of this House, would like, under the guise of supposedly untouchable symbols, to freeze the train and the SNCF in a futureless past, in a black and white postcard,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u287	Let's see! Why don't we also say that we want to go back to the coal train?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u288	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... so far away from the realities and challenges ahead. But, not to some of you, the character of Lantier leaving the Lison the face covered with soot only exists in Zola's work and in Renoir's filmography.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u289	We needed you to know!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u290	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The imperative for us is to save our rail service. That is why I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude this railway pact together with courage and responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u291	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u292	Mr President, Madam Minister, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the bill for a new railway pact is the text of all the mismatches: between the Government's speech, which boasts consultation, and the way in which parliamentary discussion is conducted; between the displayed objectives and the actual content of the text; between what is said to justify the strikes our compatriots are going through and what is really included in the bill. Madam Minister, your strategy, which was to give the information to the dropper when Members of Parliament of all political tendencies asked the Government to clearly state its vision of the future of the railway in our country, is incredible lightness. Now that the French are on the docks, trapped in the trap of strikers, you are leaving, in panic and under pressure, amendments that do not say any more about how to achieve your objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u293	What a courageous speech...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u294	We are thinking at this moment of all those who use the train every day for their work, for their studies, for their activities, or simply to travel. The Government has waited for some of our compatriots to be in trouble, our companies to start worrying, it has waited for a massive strike to give us its first leads. But, as I speak, still nothing about the debt of 50 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u295	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u296	Did you want this situation, Madam Minister? By respecting the institutions and debating with an open book, as we wished, you would have avoided this waste. MEPs The Republicans are in favour of opening up rail passenger transport to competition, which inevitably goes through the reform of the SNCF. Moreover – as I believe it has been said on all benches this afternoon – the opening has been prepared for several mandates and has never been called into question by successive governments. Our fellow citizens are also waiting for reform. They will be disappointed: they must know that beyond the announcement effects this text is far from resolving everything, because it is deadlocking on many key issues. I will start by going back to the method used to conduct the parliamentary discussion. Far from last spring's stance on the emergence of a new world, respect for Parliament and the taste for discussion, the Government first decided to legislate by ordinance. This process, which is quite shocking in the discussion on the substance, is tantamount to avoiding any specific democratic debate. The use of ordinances was already not glorious, but this time the Government went further in obstruction: it tabled amendments in the middle of Easter weekend, and a few more hours ago, just before the work in committee. This process, on the one hand, prevents any impact assessment and, on the other hand, deprives the 72 Members of the Committee on Sustainable Development of the debate to which they had prepared themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u297	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u298	The same applies to their colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs, who have received their opinions. In short, the method used by the Government is not up to the challenges. I come to the substance of the bill. Without wanting to play a bad word game, there's really a switch error. Indeed, many of our fellow citizens are convinced, given the scale of the strike, that the Government is launching a profound, courageous and painful reform. Well, you have to tell them, "Ladies, gentlemen, that's not true! Contrary to what you hear here and there, it is not intended to remove the status of all railway workers: it is a matter of stopping recruitment to this status. » To put it more clearly, anyone with the status of railway operator today will keep it. The strikers are therefore not personally affected by the provisions they denounce.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u299	Which makes their fight more noble!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u300	Perhaps, dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u301	This shows their generosity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u302	In 1996, when France Télécom was transformed into a public limited company,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u303	We saw the result!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u304	... all agents with civil servant status have retained it, so that today, twenty years later, half of Orange's agents still benefit from it. It must therefore be explained that the bill does not remove the status of railway operator, which is expected to last for a few more decades. The railway workers who are open to competition will have to work for another operator than the SNCF will arrive with their "social backpack": job guarantee, wage guarantee, benefits in terms of access to care and housing, special pension scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u305	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u306	This is known in technocratic language as the portability of rights. Furthermore, it is worth noting that, without having to wait until the adoption of this law, new staff recruited by SNCF are not systematically recruited as railway workers. All this to say that we are not going towards a revolution in the recruitment of SNCF agents: in this matter, we are rather in an old micheline than in a new TGV. A second accepted idea with which to break is to open up to competition. The Government does not show any particular voluntarism in this regard. He placed his work in a long process begun in the late 1990s. This journey began with the separation of the carrier and the system operator; It continued over key dates, including the competition of freight, in 2003 for international and in 2006 for the interior, and in 2009 the opening up of international passenger transport to competition. It continues today with the fourth railway package: the bill organizes this stage, no more or less. He comes to lay the key to the vault, no doubt; But the foundations have been established for a long time. The Republicans are in favour of new ways of recruiting rail workers, as well as opening up to competition. On the other hand, they stare at all the blind corners of the text. First, with regard to the crucial issue of debt. The SNCF is in debt of 47 to 50 billion euros – the figures are quite volatile – and this debt is growing every year. What was the Government's strategy to address that situation? We are talking about a partial recovery of the debt by the state. We are also talking about the creation of an ad hoc structure within the SNCF. We are waiting for answers; we have asked you in committee, Madam Minister; We still don't have them. We cannot seriously debate the future of the French rail network without having previously solved the debt problem. Another blind spot: the big investments. Several major projects are under way, others are under consideration; They are strategic for the future of our country, but commit huge sums. What are the guidelines of the President of the Republic in this regard? Which projects will be selected, which will be abandoned? What hierarchy? What calendar? Again, our debates do not bring anything because we do not have the beginning of an answer to these questions. From a more operational point of view, there are real shades in the organization of the future. For example, the text – it must be in its DNA – is supposed to open up to competition, but also to preserve fairness between territories. But if we do not take care of it, competition will be harsh on profitable lines, but the others will soon be abandoned. Without territorial solidarity shock absorbers, there is a real risk of allowing networks to deteriorate and weaken and losing the quality of the mesh. Finally, the question of the organisation of SNCF and the relations between SNCF Mobilitys and SNCF Network is essential. It has been known since this morning that an amendment by the Government will retain the system of a company with a head and two subsidiaries. If you had been respectful of the work of parliamentarians, minister, we could have had this amendment before the committee meeting. Don't tell me you've only been thinking about it this weekend!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u307	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u308	What a contempt for Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u309	This solution of a leading structure, whether it is an EPIC or a national company with public capital, we do not agree with it, because it will put SNCF in the critical position of being a judge and a party. We would have preferred, on the one hand, a commitment by the Government to support the infrastructure manager, SNCF Réseau – whose missions fall within the scope of the Regalian domain, as they relate to spatial planning – and, on the other hand, a genuine independence for the transport company, SNCF Mobilitys. Market opening will only work if it is accompanied by real transparency. Competition must lead to an improvement in the quality of service, a reduction in costs, but also to a growth in the rail mode and a modal shift from the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u310	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u311	Because we believe in SNCF Mobilitys and its staff, we believe that, freer, it can bring more to our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u312	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u313	In our view, the removal of the leading EPIC goes hand in hand with the independence of the regulatory authority. We would therefore have seen with a good mind that the role of the Authority for the regulation of railway and road activities is strengthened rather than weakened, as you had imagined in your original text. Lastly, with regard to the small lines, the Government's silence was deafening. We do not forget the letter of mission the Government had sent to Mr. Spinetta or the conclusions of his report. We note with concern your refusal, minister, that the keeping of the small lines be black and white in the bill. Your oral commitments are important, but their inclusion in the law would have made them stronger.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u314	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u315	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Whatever our respective political sensitivities, we hear and share all the concerns of the regions and forcefully reiterate that serving the territories by train is a major requirement. A balanced development of our country requires a balance between the cities and the rural world. All of France needs the train, in all its territories. Do, Madam Minister, that this railway pact – which we are not meant to reject – be that of all the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u316	Mrs Lasserre-David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u317	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, we see in the current debate on SNCF – a passionate debate – the sign of the deep commitment of French and French people to this public service undertaking that really participates in their daily lives. This commitment to the public rail service is strong and sincere, but it also carries counter-truths that must be dispelled. As the chairman of our group, Marc Fesneau, pointed out, in order to be fair and respectful of SNCF, users and railway workers, this debate would deserve to be dispassionate, allowing us to focus on the stakes that it covers – and that are great. The reform we are going to discuss must enable us to make the SNCF a pillar around which tomorrow's mobility will be organised. The opening up of the railway to competition, which is now being challenged to discover the current situation, has been moving forward in gradual stages for almost twenty years. It is therefore a long-term project to which SNCF has been preparing for many years. Our responsibility is to accompany our national company towards this objective, which must give it the agility necessary to be as efficient as possible in this new framework of opening up to the competition of passenger transport. We know that SNCF, with the framework and the possibilities offered by this text, is at the height of the challenge: I am against its excellent financial results obtained abroad, in countries such as Italy, Germany or Belgium, where it operates in markets open to competition, from which it withdraws a third of its turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u318	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u319	It is worth recalling these figures because it is somewhat inappropriate to think that our neighbours could not have a right – that of offering services in a partner country, when we ourselves have one. Moreover, SNCF has taken full advantage of this possibility and is now one of the best performing companies in the countries in which it operates. As the Italian, Swedish or German examples show, opening up to competition has been accompanied by an increase in supply, but also by demand, which has benefited from the increase in the number of services, the fall in prices and the improvement of facilities and services.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u320	Look at the price of the train in London!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u321	In Germany, for example, the average age of the Deutsche Bahn Park has been divided by two in less than 20 years. In Italy, the level of services offered has greatly improved, including wireless access, multimedia services and high-end catering. Furthermore, the operating costs per train-kilometre of railway undertakings have decreased from 20% to 30% in Germany and Sweden since the opening to competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u322	There's just no debt to pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u323	In this context, it seems to us that there is no concern about opening up to competition. On the contrary, these new opportunities for development must better ensure the position of SNCF in the European landscape and give it the means to provide a higher quality service for the benefit of, among other things, French users. In order to achieve these objectives and to establish the debate on a clear basis, a few points need to be clarified. First of all, it is not an English reform, in which the historical operator has disappeared. The model that has been chosen – called open access – is in concrete terms to allow SNCF to continue to offer the same services and to serve the same stations while allowing other operators to offer their own trains. Let us see this as a complementary offer for users and not just as a competition. Nor is this reform a privatisation: it aims at the transformation of the current structure, consisting of three EPICs, which could take the form of a public limited company with incessible public capital which would therefore be wholly owned by the State. Finally, it is not a law on the removal of territorial grid lines: these lines, necessary for the irrigation of the whole of our territory – and therefore to its vitality – are not threatened. On the contrary, the bill takes into account the service deficit situation of some of our territories and seeks to provide new responses. In this connection, we would like to thank the rapporteur for his amendment, adopted in committee, which seeks to draw up a complete list of these lines and the network in order, in particular, to enable the State and the regions to provide a responsible service consistent with our objectives of improving regional planning. The other objective of this reform is to improve service to users with a wider and more comprehensive service offer. It is a choice that we take, which also aims to give users access to simplified information and to facilitate multimodality; We will defend an amendment to that effect. With this in mind for the better integration of all users, we welcome the Government's amendment, adopted in committee, which aims to extend social tariffs to all railway operators. The opening up to competition will take place in conjunction with the SNCF and its agents; On the one hand, thanks to the transformation of its governance, it will have to give SNCF, at the national level, the agility it has in managing its subsidiaries abroad; On the other hand, it must protect the agents of the undertaking, in particular in the event of a change of operator following a call for tenders. As Mr Charles de Courson rightly pointed out, the principle of collective agreement, which is currently preferred, is generally praised by all trade unions because it allows real negotiation, whereas in the case of the Staff Regulations, even in the case of agreements between the social partners, the Minister responsible for transport may object to any change. The framework will thus be more virtuous and respectful of social democracy. The new railway pact must then, as I mentioned in the introduction, make SNCF one of the pillars of tomorrow's mobility, serving users and respecting the rights of employees of railway undertakings, ensuring both job security and a future in a European context. It will also have to resolve the debt issue in the long run – we know that the Government is currently working on it. Tomorrow's mobility must address our concern for spatial planning and the opening up of peripheral areas. The demand for transport exists, as the Macron buses have shown us, whose development has not been entirely achieved by replacing rail. We must therefore allow the various players, the SNCF in the lead, to develop the corresponding offer. It is with these objectives of improving the service to users and accompanying the SNCF and its agents that we will be able to build this new pact, which will be the first stone of the law of orientation of mobilitys, which will promote – the MODEM group hopes – the development and simplification of the interconnection and complementarity of the different modes of transport, and will equip us with efficient spatial planning tools. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] It is now up to us to find, in this law, the balance between the indispensable reform of the SNCF, which will make it the great railway carrier of tomorrow, the respect of its agents – who are the strength of this company – and the ambition that must make it the backbone of the mobility of tomorrow's French and French people. The reform is difficult, we agree, because it affects the whole company, but it is made necessary by a new context in which we believe that SNCF has every chance of success. It is a reform at the service of the SNCF, its agents and its users, and it is in this spirit that we will support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u324	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u325	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, committee presidents, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, in 2001 Europe approved the first rail package, which was preparing for the opening up of international freight to competition. Everyone knew then that this process would lead to the opening up of passenger transport to competition. That was seventeen years ago; No one was taken by surprise. The liberalisation of rail is in the direction of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u326	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u327	However, we are now taking time to transpose a directive before 25 December 2018, in a climate of strike that paralyses the French railways in a two-day period. Our thoughts go to users who are blocked in their daily travel and for whom the situation is uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u328	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u329	On behalf of the IDU Group, Action and Independents, I would therefore like to explain why we consider this reform necessary and recall certain truths about the future of SNCF. I'm a train user. As a customer, I am not fully satisfied with the Cambrai-Paris line, which I borrow every week. Delays are frequent; weather conditions have an excessive impact on service; information to users is more than perfectable. SNCF is an 80-year-old public company that should make our country proud. However, only 55 per cent of French people are satisfied with it and the proportion continues to decline. Its debt is colossal – 47 billion euros – and worsens year after year. She has made significant transformation efforts, but she is now at a turning point in her history. If it fails to modernise and re-examine its role to become an actor in mobility – and not just a player in the rail sector – it is threatened with extinction. This is our first conviction: opening up to competition is an opportunity for SNCF. I'm an elected member of the Republic. As such, I want to ensure that no territory is enclaved, that every citizen has access to as many affordable and quality mobility solutions as possible. I am fully aware that the policy of all-TGV and the construction of new lines to the detriment of the maintenance of the network is a fault which successive governments share and which must now be made up. I will be vigilant to ensure that future policy choices are balanced and that complementarity is ensured between TGV and TER lines, between large and small lines – we will come back to that when we defend the amendments. While 80 per cent of trains operate on 27 per cent of the rail network, rail must not be the only means of connecting cities. The State will become an organizing authority for transport and will have to make full use of this strategic role. Regions also have this function; Both will have to work together. The minister should not have the state dislodge in one way or another by gradually transferring the entire secondary network to the regions. With this reform, we can achieve an opening to competition in open access, to French, with a consideration of fine desserts. The role of the State is decisive in the allocation of capacity, the modulation of the cost of tolls and the maintenance of public service obligations. This is our second conviction: openness to competition is an opportunity for our territories. I am listening to the demands and concerns of the strikers. The change is worrying and normal, but it does not provide for privatisation. We reaffirmed and confirmed the public nature of SNCF; Government amendment No. 273 also makes this very clear. The transformation of the company into a national company will allow more flexibility, with the creation of subsidiaries, but also a control of the debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u330	And the shareholder entrance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u331	It should also be remembered that, at its creation, SNCF was a public limited company with a mixed economy. As far as the status is concerned, we do not see the point of making it a totem. The number of out-of-status recruitments has doubled in ten years, without affecting the SNCF. The cessation of recruitment to the Staff Regulations will lead to the gradual and smooth disintegration of the Staff Regulations. To put an end to it also means to put more trust in the social partners by favouring coverage by a collective agreement, which will undoubtedly be just as protective. Finally, with regard to debt, it is clear that it is not really the debt of SNCF; It is the state that has favoured all-TGV and increased investment. It is therefore clear that the Government must clarify its position and timetable before national representation. Things are not that simple, because from the moment the debt is taken up, it becomes the business of the taxpayers, and you know our commitment to controlling public spending. The golden rule was one of the battles of our colleague Bertrand Pancher under the former legislature; It's a nice idea that hasn't been applied. We must now finally have the courage to deal with this unsustainable debt. This is our third conviction: by clarifying the issues of its debt, the company's architecture and the recruitment of its employees, we will allow SNCF to enter fully into a competitive system. The company has all the capacity to achieve this liberalisation thanks to the energy of railway workers and the road map developed by management. We hope that the discussions at the meeting will really focus on the substance. To be sure, having a 99 per cent bill that allows us to legislate by order has a frustrating side for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u332	That's good to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u333	In a way, we are spectators of negotiations between the Government and trade union organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u334	The latter also have the feeling of being spectators!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u335	The use of prescriptions is not really a guarantee of speed. We must have completed this bill by the end of the year, but the Labour Code orders have shown that an ordinary bill is no less rapid.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u336	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u337	However, we were reassured to see, as you had committed yourself to it, a number of provisions that were included directly in the law from the time of the committee review, and things will still be moving in our debates in committee. The amendments adopted in committee are in line with the spirit of reform and our expectations on most of the issues. We would like to see the inclusion in the law of the provisions concerning the areas mentioned in article 1, namely governance and recruitment. That is what the Government will do in part by amendment. The transformation into a national society will mechanically reduce debt. It is, I repeat, a guarantee of flexibility: the possibility of creating subsidiaries was one of the shortcomings of the 2014 railway reform. Positioning of &amp; Stations Connections is very important, as my colleague Antoine Herth pointed out in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Its empowerment must make it possible to offer a better service. We hope that the stations will become – or become – places of life, that breweries and shops will be able to open and maintain themselves there, that they will become central centres of the modalities. It is not illogical that Stations &am p; Connections move from SNCF Mobilitys to SNCF Network, as proposed by the Government. However, beyond its place in architecture, it must have its own strategy. The current approach is relevant at large stations. Saint-Lazarus is an example often cited. However, should we not consider a system of delegation, which would allow communities to manage the building of the smallest stations? In any event, the current operation is not satisfactory and does not allow for the construction of the 21st century station. The possibility of modulating charges to irrigate territories, which will not apply to high-speed lines or to less attractive lines because they are less profitable, is quite positive. On open access, as on many points, we want the recommendations of Jean-Cyril Spinetta's report to be followed. In particular, it had advocated the use of framework agreements covering a coherent set of services. What is your position on this, minister? As regards the timetable for opening up to competition, there is also no surprise. In Île-de-France, the particular situation of the network and the role of RATP justify a more extended timetable than for the rest of the network. We must also, as you have done, respect the rhythm of the regions, while complying with the European directive. The most eager, such as the Hauts-de-France, will be able to open up to competition in 2019. For those who wish to take more time, the signing of a ten-year agreement with SNCF will remain possible before 2023. We fully trust the territories to organize public service as best we can. The public service is the rail system as a whole. SNCF, on the other hand, is a public company which will soon co-exist with other companies. It will be up to the transport organising authorities to choose the operator who will best respond to the specifications. I'm going to transfer the employees. We are aware that this issue is highly sensitive. You are moving away from the Spinetta report, which called for the principle of compulsory transfer to be included in the law. If priority is given to volunteering, care must be taken to ensure that the "social bag-to-dos" is filled enough to be attractive. This law is not another railway reform: it is the one that must define the French railway system of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u338	Thank you for your support!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u339	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u340	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, you are proposing, I believe, the most difficult rail reform in Parliament's history, both in terms of method and substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u341	Since the one in 2014, you mean!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u342	Regarding the method, you have tabled a text that included eight articles, and introduced new amendments after the deadline for tabling amendments, so that this bill now contains twenty articles, more than half of which have been introduced in catini,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u343	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u344	... even as they relate to the complex subject of tolls. Addressing such an important subject as the SNCF by introducing half of the articles of the text by way of amendment is unacceptable and unprecedented in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u345	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u346	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u347	We keep saying it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u348	I take it that you lack consideration for Members. You probably feel that they would be unable to understand the economic, budgetary, financial and human stakes of the railway. Secondly, there are many substantive issues. I shall first address the issue of tolls, on which the New Left Group, whose spokesman for this text is Mr Bouillon, has tabled several amendments. I would like to return to one of them, which has already been mentioned by several of our colleagues. Minister, if SNCF Réseau wants to get rid of a line, it will increase the toll.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u349	No! Read the transport code!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u350	Today, there is nothing in your bill that prevents SNCF Network from increasing tolls. The small lines serving our territory are therefore called into question: as long as there are no guarantees enshrined in the law...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u351	Stop fantasizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u352	I'm not fantasize, minister: I'm just reading your bill. As long as there are no guarantees regarding small lines, you cannot ask us to give you our trust. I come, then, to the status of the company, which you seem to want to transform into a public limited company – your proposal on the subject is not very clear. Apart from La Poste, all French public enterprises transformed into public limited liability companies have been privatized. Our group has taken over the provisions that existed for La Poste to preserve the capital of the new company, if, of course, you wished to transform it into a public limited company. I hope you will give us the benefit of this guarantee. As far as railway status is concerned, a lot has been read. It appears that this status would lead to the financial difficulties of SNCF. So we did a basic calculation, dividing the payroll of Deutsche Bahn by the number of agents, and we applied the same method to SNCF. It is a division that everyone will probably be able to make from the CE2, thanks to Mr Blanquer. The result is convincing: there is only 10 euros of difference. You cannot therefore say that the status of the railway operator results in the financial difficulties of the SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u353	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u354	It's demagogic!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u355	I leave it to you to explain to Mr Blanquer that making a division is demagogic. In addition, you propose that some companies take over the railway if, of adventure, they exploit certain lines. In that case, minister, how will you treat seniority? You mention wages and working conditions, but don't mention this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u356	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u357	So tell us where it is in the bill! I repeat, only the provisions introduced in the law provide guarantees. Finally, I come to two subjects which undermine the financial balance of SNCF: debt, which requires us to pay EUR 1.5 billion in interest each year, and investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u358	That's not the subject of the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u359	What were you doing during the previous quinquennium?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u360	Debt is not mentioned in your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u361	Not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u362	I understand that this was a drawer text and that you were going to table amendments. There is no need for the working group to launch working groups on amendments, if the Government shows such little consideration to Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] With regard to investment, during the discussion of the draft finance law, you refused all our amendments aimed at granting a higher share of the internal consumption tax on energy products – ICTPE – to the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – AFITF – to genuinely support infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u363	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u364	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, for nearly two hundred years, rail transport has been our country's pride: pride in its technology, which is based on the quality of the know-how of our engineers, its role in spatial planning combining territorial grid and high-speed lines, and for the major transformations carried out with railway operators over time. However, it is imperative that our rail model adapt to the challenges of the 21st century and change, otherwise we will no longer have a future. However, the current system is out of breath, and the French have turned away from the train in their choice of transport, year after year, since 2011. Financing is unsustainable, with production costs well above the European average. Who can understand that, every year, the debt increases by 3 billion euros, while 14 billion dollars are injected by the taxpayer? Who can understand that policy makers have allowed SNCF's debt to flow, at the risk of hypothecizing its future? The network has deteriorated due to a lack of investment, and the quality of service is no longer on the table. Who can accept that 20% of the furrows are idle? Who can tolerate 18% of TGVs being late, as was the case in 2016? The very organisation of SNCF has become illegible and inappropriate. Who can understand that the signalling and sign systems are not unified within the stations itself? Who can understand that there is no single manager at stations to make decisions? The Government and the majority have set themselves the task of reshaping our mobility policy. This is the meaning of the foundations of mobility, launched last September, and of the future mobility guidance law. At the heart of our project is the renovation of rail transport. Opening up to competition, under the auspices of this text, will help to reorganise the whole system, make it more efficient and readable, but also better meet the expectations of users by offering a cleaner, more connected and more intermodal transport offer. Let's put an end to cartoons and misinformation: No, there will be neither privatisation of the network nor privatization of the SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u365	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u366	We've heard such promises before!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u367	If you're telling the truth, put it clearly in the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u368	We only foresee the possibility, for new operators, of running trains on the national and regional network. For users, this means that there will be more trains, more offers and more services. On the broad lines, new players will be able to offer more TGVs. Regions may choose to retain or change the operator in relation to a specific specification. All European states that have opened their markets have seen a very significant increase in attendance. France has the second largest rail network in Europe and cannot be limited to being only the tenth country for the intensity of use of this network. For SNCF, it will be a powerful spur to innovate, be more efficient and become a major global player in mobility. This is our ambition and a chance for the group. SNCF is already playing the role of international competition and winning markets. Let us stop being schizophrenic and also assume the requirement of competitiveness in our national market. All other French mobility players, some of whom are already world leaders, will also be encouraged to offer attractive offers for the consumer. We also know that infrastructure is essential for our country's attractiveness to international investors. A quality network is more companies investing in our territory, and more jobs. For its part, the State will invest massively for the renovation of the network: 3.6 billion euros per year for ten years. In addition, the Government's negotiations over the past several weeks have made it possible to secure the railway workers who will choose to join a new railway undertaking. That's the whole meaning of the social backpack. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, our policy is neither to maintain the status quo nor to cut resources abruptly, as some have been able to do in the past. We are accompanying change and investing to be effective in the long term. We want a strong SNCF, whose quality of infrastructure and service is recognised by the transport organising authorities and by our international competitors. It is therefore the honour of this government and of this majority to defend such an ambitious project. In a few years, it will be considered a major turning point, as was the case for opening up to competition in telephony or the air sector. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] As a Member of Parliament for the fourth constituency of the Yvelines, in which, in 1837, between Paris and Saint-Germain-en-Laye, the first railway line of France, dedicated only to travellers, was inaugurated, I am proud to participate with my colleagues in this great transformation aimed at giving a future to our rail transport. Two hundred years later, we are all rail users.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u369	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u370	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Chairman of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have no doubt that France needs a powerful, renovated, economically balanced rail system with high-quality, reliable, secure and accessible transport, while responding to the growing demands for mobility in metropolitan areas and in urban areas, and at the same time ensuring that services are maintained in rural areas. In this respect, the Republicans Group shares the two objectives of this bill, namely to prepare and organize the opening up of passenger transport to competition. The European rail liberalisation process is to be launched in December 2020 for high-speed lines and by 2023 for TERs. In view of the current situation of SNCF, the incumbent operator, we are measuring the path that remains to be taken in order to achieve these objectives. Madam Minister, you have initiated a reform... But which one? And for what results? It is difficult for parliamentarians to say that we are in terms of the method used. Indeed, the use of orders deprives Parliament of a substantive debate. We will thus discuss the general principles of this reform, but without discussion of the substantive issues. The bill originally consisted of eight articles, but it was constantly amended, an amendment with an additional clause coming even this morning,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u371	No impact assessment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u372	... in addition to the paragraphs each replaced by ten paragraphs, and all this for a major reform. Members are thus reduced to asking a few questions about its general principles and to questioning the content of the ongoing negotiations without knowing the details and without having time to react.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u373	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u374	Yet many subjects would have deserved discussion! Article 1 and, since this morning, the article before article 1, give the Government the power to organize the governance and legal form of the public railway group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u375	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u376	This governance should allow for a framework to promote equal treatment between operators in order to ensure that the market is open to competition. However, the vertically integrated model that you propose – on the German model – is a source of conflict and even litigation. On the contrary, it is necessary to ensure the separation between SNCF Réseau and SNCF Mobilitys, and above all the independence of SNCF Réseau vis-à-vis the leading EPIC by abolishing it in order not to compromise success at openness. Therefore, this topic would have merited a substantive debate. The issue of SNCF's abyssal debt does not appear anywhere in this text, although it is one of the company's major problems. As a reminder, in 2016 it amounted to 42 billion euros. It would seem, Madam Minister, that you would prepare for the establishment of a new structure, which is still unclear, to take over SNCF Réseau's debt. In any case, the golden rule was not respected. Parliament must be able to seize this issue by asking, for example, for a report on the debt structure in order to know the state of the SNCF's debt ratio and other budgetary elements. Here too, this subject would have deserved a substantive debate. Our assembly also has little information about the status of railway workers, other than the end date of recruitment. There is no guideline in this bill on the special railway pension plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u377	Yes, the subject was rejected in 2019!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u378	Another subject that would have deserved a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u379	It will come!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u380	As for the small lines, which are so useful to our fellow citizens who live outside the metropolises and in rural areas, we do not know the fate you reserve for them. You have indicated that you would not follow the recommendations of the Spinetta report on these lines, but their future, at this stage, does not seem to be assured. It is not a report, decided by amendment, on the state of the least frequented lines that will reassure the elected ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u381	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u382	By refusing to include in the law the maintenance of small lines, you transfer to the regions the weight of their renovation without any financial compensation. If we can approve the overall draft contained in this text as well as the stated objectives, the method employed by the Government is very clumsy or even deliberately orchestrated by it: no substantive debate, amendments tabled at the last minute, angry unions, the elected members of the nation despised, a population taken hostage again this morning, and Parliament reduces to being a Chamber of Registration, according to the decisions taken between the trade unions and the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Should we once again see, Madam Minister, the demonstration of the aversion that the President of the Republic brings to parliamentarians and to their work?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u383	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u384	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u385	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur and the draftsman of the opinion, the SNCF has been presented to us by the Government for several weeks as a large body on the reverse side; It has been several weeks since the Government claimed to treat the patient with remedies that we doubt, a government that, as in all things and on all subjects, is necessarily the one that breaks with decades of turpitude, clientelism, courardism, incompetence – as if it all started with him. For ten years, however, the SNCF has been changing and the train has regained its status as a passenger. In 2017, the TGV earned 10% of passengers, the TER increased 5% and the francilian traffic increased 3.2%. For TER alone, this mode of daily transport, there are 20,000 more passengers every day. The French love the train, the French love the SNCF, which is served every day by qualified and experienced agents, often more than their foreign counterparts or their private colleagues, which explains in particular the differences in cost – often mentioned but which my colleague Valérie Rabault has just put into perspective by comparing with those of Germany – and also, as the Spinetta report itself points out, that trains arrive in France more often than in the average of European countries, including Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u386	So everything's fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u387	For ten years, the SNCF has been changing, I said, it has not started with you, Madam Minister, and it is developing both in France and abroad. In 2017, the great patient even made a profit of more than 1 billion euros. A renovation is under way, no matter what you say. The 2014 law implemented the modernisation of social dialogue in the railway branch and in the company SNCF by replacing social bargaining with administrative rules laid down by decree. This major change led to the successful negotiation of the first branch collective agreement in May 2016, which it seems appropriate today to recall. Other negotiations are at work and all trade unions are involved because none of them are by nature indifferent to the reform and even less to the future of the public service. However, the two-fold question of SNCF's debt and network maintenance remains. That is where the reform must take place. But neither the status of railway workers nor that of the company will resolve these two issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u388	You don't mind, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u389	The defence of the public service and the renaissance of the SNCF are not confined to the avanias made to railwaymen, nor to the creation of an SA, which can be feared to be the antechamber of privatisation. Does opening up to competition order it? No, I don't. This opening has been under way for a long time, and the negotiation of the fourth railway package has left many possibilities for the incumbent operator to operate lines and has placed the consideration of public service tasks at the top of the agenda. The subject is therefore elsewhere. It is in the 54 billion euros of debt. There is no doubt that the debt of SNCF is that of the nation; There is no doubt that it consists of the sum of the choices made by successive governments. For example, since 2010 SNCF Réseau has embarked on an investment programme of more than EUR 5 billion a year for the modernisation of the network and for the development of high-speed lines, such as the extension to Strasbourg of the LGV Est, the one to Brittany-Pays-de-la-Loire, the bypass of Nîmes and Montpellier or the LGV Sud-Est Atlantique towards Bordeaux – I am the weekly witness, which is very successful, which is why I am attached to its extension to Hendaye. The State was right to decide on these investments as it thus prepares for the future by developing the territory. Today, however, SNCF is in debt to repay a debt decided by the State. The question is old, no one disagrees, but with the return of growth, with the increase in tax revenues, with the reduction of the public deficit which has been under way for several years, the question now arises more serenely of a recovery of the debt by the State, as the German State did with that of the Deutsche Bundesbahn. This is one of the sine qua nons of a strong public enterprise. We must now answer that, Madam Minister, otherwise than by the squid. The same applies to the question of investment. This is a central issue, each of the speakers recalled – it has been at the heart of the negotiation of the latest performance contract signed between SNCF and the State, which foresees 46 billion investments over the next ten years. But to listen to you, minister, I am not sure that this commitment will be kept to that extent. In any case, if you need information on this, I would like to inform you that one of today's ministers has signed it on the SNCF side.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u390	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u391	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] Minister, these are the two unsurpassable conditions for a strong public enterprise and for a high-quality public service. This is what the public service users and their noble servants, the railwaymen, expect from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u392	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u393	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, how could the Government propose just solutions to the crisis in the French rail sector, since it invokes, at its origin, false causes, that it is the status of the SNCF which is supposedly inadequate, of allegedly privileged railway operators, of small unprofitable lines? This new railway pact, born from the conclusions of the Spinetta report, attacks the wrongdoers. It is hardly surprising, for while Mr. Spinetta is not an expert on rail, he knows very well about the breakdown of the public service: conductor of the privatization of Air France, initiator of the opening to competition for La Poste and GDF-Suez, he is the ideal man of hand of the Government whose privileged targets are from the beginning the civil servants and the public service. However, SNCF Réseau's huge debt was caused by the state. It has nothing to do with the status of railwaymen, but stems from the catastrophic decisions of all successive governments over the past thirty years. You yourself, Madam Minister, Technical Advisor in charge of transportation at Jospin's office and then, in 2002, Director of SNCF's strategy, certainly know something about it and have some responsibility for it. Since 2010, the State has committed SNCF Réseau to an investment programme in excess of EUR 5 billion annually for high-speed lines, to the detriment of the proximity networks essential to the vitality of the territories. At the same time, the state drastically reduces subsidies, forcing SNCF Réseau to resort massively to debt. The accumulated debt has become such that SNCF Réseau arrives at the absurd situation of being forced to debt to repay the debt created by the State. Between 2010 and 2017, according to the conclusions of the Degest report, counter-expertise of the Spinetta report, for 100 euros borrowed by SNCF Réseau, 59 euros were spent on debt repayment when 41 euros were spent on the network. The same report explains how much Mr Spinetta has charged the status and cost of work. The Government proposes the following blackmail: the great lord, the State would resume the debt on its own account in exchange for the abandonment of the status of railway workers and the adoption of the other modalities of the outright dismantling of the SNCF. It fails to make clear, of course, that he himself, particularly at the time of Alain Juppé, used the accounts of the SNCF in the late 1990s to house part of his debt there in order to return to the nails of Maastricht and thus be eligible for the single currency. The state would only take back what it had gotten rid of twenty years ago. There is therefore no reason to question the status of railway workers with regard to rolling staff. Special obligations, special conditions and special status. Nothing scandalous about that. If railway workers seem privileged because of a status allowing them, in particular, favourable retirement conditions, it is in compensation for special periodic payments, such as having to work at night, on Sundays and on public holidays. Moreover, it is absolutely necessary to retain workers for the least attractive jobs to which periodic penalty payments are attached: by what other means more effective than the status could be achieved? The question of the status of railway workers is all the less justified because the rise in labour costs is due to structural factors. Let us stop the false appearances: the ultimate objective of the reform of the SNCF is privatisation and therefore the disappearance of the public transport service for purely ideological reasons. Emmanuel Macron's entire reforms are inspired by a philosophy of deregulation, forced mobility, uprooting, at the service of the great financial powers. Whether it is Britain, where the price of the ticket has been multiplied by three, Italy or Germany, where the so-called private company is in fact held financially at arm's length by the State, no example abroad proves that competition and privatisation would be factors of progress in the railways. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the general interest that dictates this reform: it is imposed by a directive of the European Union, which also sets the timetable for it. Madam Minister, you did not say a word about this in your speech, as if you were a little ashamed of it and that you had to hide it from the French. The railway package was also voted on by Members of the Republican Group as well as those of the Socialist Group, who are now uncomfortable in this House. A flat stomach ahead of Brussels, our ruling elites are once again rushing to sacrifice the French model on the altar of European ideology. Because who will be left behind in this reform? Still the same: those who live in this rural France, affected by your policies and who will inevitably see the last railway lines that continued to irrigate it disappear – although the Government says so. I am talking about workers in peri-urban areas where road congestion makes any alternative to rail transport impossible, and who will see the cost of their travel double in rush hours. In the Hauts-de-France, for example, no less than twenty lines are threatened, as in my constituency, the Lourches-Valenciennes link. The struggle for the maintenance of public service is the business of every Frenchman. Of course, Madam Minister, your policy will make winners: the Vinci groups, or Eiffage, which you know well. They will benefit tomorrow from the concessions paid by the French. Dividends will then be paid to shareholders: you will not make anyone believe that the general interest will have been defended. Only the latter, that is to say, the general interest of the French, counts. Only this general interest guides our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u394	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u395	The general interest, for you, is the interest of Catholics!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u396	It must be said, however, that the same general interest has little to do with the Members of the La République Group who are apparently reluctant to support this text. As a result, members of the National Front will oppose this privatisation project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u397	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u398	The National Front has always insulted strikers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u399	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u400	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as he was elected, the President of the Republic expressed his willingness to reshape our transport policy, with a central objective: to improve the mobility of all French people in all territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u401	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u402	In the hyper-connected world in which we operate, physical mobility conditions all other social or professional mobilitys: our government's duty today is to ensure the freedom of movement of everyone – leaving no one behind – throughout the country. In this regard, the rail system has always been at the heart of our mobility policies and has historically played a leading role both in the development of our economy and in the planning of our territory. In order to maintain this leadership role and meet the challenge of the ecological transition, it is necessary to reform it in depth. The national foundations of mobility, a great cooperation implemented by this government, have made it possible to identify the priority needs and expectations of all our citizens in the field of transport, in particular rail transport. In addition, the report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board – including Barbara Pompili, Matthieu Orphelin, present here, and I myself were members – and the ensuing negotiations with stakeholders allowed the unions, as well as all the stakeholders involved, to be involved in the reflection on the recasting of our railway system, in an unprecedented process of consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u403	That's clear: it's new!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u404	My personal and professional journey makes me, like all the French, particularly attached to the public railway service, to the SNCF – which is part of our national heritage – as well as to the railwaymen who work there. It is precisely because we are deeply committed to this public good that we must act with courage and clarity to carry out a number of reforms. It must be noted that, for a long time, successive governments have not been able to meet the challenges they have faced: apart from high-speed lines, the national rail network, which has been the victim of decades of underinvestment, is deteriorating. In addition, while demand continues, the increase in the share of rail in French mobility remains low and the quality of service declines. At the same time, we are witnessing an increase of several billions a year in the stock of debt: it is expected to reach 62 billion euros by 2026. In any event, as Special Rapporteur for the appropriations of the "Transport Infrastructure and Services" mission, I can only welcome the bill that is now before us, because it will make four major advances possible. The first of these advances is the construction of a new SNCF, with a new governance and a unified organisation. The second step is the improvement, thanks to the implementation of a strategic enterprise project, the productivity and performance of the group. The third step is social modernization, with, among other things, the end of recruitment for new hires and the question of the transfer of staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u405	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u406	On this point, we, as parliamentarians, must ensure that the transition takes place under the best conditions for employees. I have also tabled an amendment, co-signed by a number of my colleagues, to this effect, as it seeks to establish a principle of industry solidarity that will, among other things, secure the transfer of training and skills. This bill must finally – this is the fourth step – allow us to prepare our country and its rail system as a whole for opening up to competition. It is a matter of complying with our European obligations, but also of meeting the expectations of the users, who expect a better service, and those of the regions, who will be able to choose their operator. On this last point, the timetable for gradual opening up to competition proposed by the Government is a guarantee of the success of our reform, since it gives the regions time to adapt.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u407	They're gonna be happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u408	The latter will indeed play a central role in the process: it is therefore essential to accompany them as best they can. That is why I will be defending amendments aimed in particular at improving their information, on the one hand, on the development of rail transport services in their territory and, on the other hand, on the execution of contracts awarded to operators. In order to ensure the success of the process of opening up to competition, we must also pay attention to preserving the role of the regulator, ARAFER: I will also propose an amendment to this effect. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a major challenge for the future of our country: the recasting of our rail system, which must allow every Frenchman to move freely, reliably, safely and at a reasonable cost. It is our duty to take responsibility and act for a better public rail service. Be assured, Madam Minister, that I will be with you, with the majority, to carry out this reform and to draw the SNCF of the future as well as the railway transport of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u409	It wasn't bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u410	The last speaker in the general discussion is Mr. Jean-Marc Zulesi.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u411	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a fundamental reform of the SNCF, a railway pact which aims at both preparing for the future of our territories, accompanying the ecological transition and putting the mobility of everyday life at the heart of our society. The railway pact first illustrates an ambition: that of no longer having to choose between public service and economic efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u412	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u413	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u414	Competition is useless! It's a waste!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u415	The railway pact is also means, a modernized SNCF, regulated competition and enhanced infrastructure. I emphasize: 10 million euros will be invested every day in the upgrading of our proximity lines,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u416	You know that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u417	...these forgotten lines of life, yet so dear to our territories. I would now like to recall some truths. No, the service provided by SNCF is not satisfactory and this failure is not the responsibility of the railway operators;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u418	So, why touch status?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u419	...this is a fact that we all share.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u420	[[Smile]] We love railwaymen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u421	Yes, we inherit, with regard to the management of our railway system, the mistakes of the past, which led us to forget our regional and local lines for the benefit of the all-GV, to accumulate an abyssal debt and, finally, to fail to make SNCF competitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u422	What a training!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u423	For decades, politicians...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u424	What about the women?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u425	...rejected to any ambitious reform. The old majorities, which are too flimsy, have often, rather than looking at the situation in the face, preferred inefficient half-measures and compromises. It is now our collective responsibility to put SNCF on sustainable tracks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u426	He's a cartoonist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u427	Mr Mélenchon, ladies and gentlemen, let us allow Mr Zulesi to speak, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u428	Let us express our opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u429	We applaud in front of so much measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u430	Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it is never too late to do well. Take your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u431	He understands us: he has Gaullian accents!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u432	[[Rites and exclamations on FI banks. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Stop the cartoons: this reform is neither the privatisation of the SNCF nor the breakdown of the public service; It was your postures that made SNCF so late. Together, let's reverse the steam!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u433	That's for sure, with you, everything's going back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u434	Steam? But it's the 19th century!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u435	Stop with coal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u436	Ladies and gentlemen, please, only Mr Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u437	The new world in which we want the French rail system to enter will be open to competition. I know that many of you are worried about it. To these timid and fearful people tempted by the retreat, I mean that in 2018 we can no longer hide behind Europe. Opening up to competition is not just the result of transposing a European directive: it is before a chance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u438	Don't be afraid of steam!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u439	Does he only believe in what he says?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u440	Competition, provided it is anticipated, organised and not affected, is a source of progress and innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u441	For rail freight too? Nice success!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u442	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] Competition will not cause SNCF to shrink from foreign companies: on the contrary, it will allow it to open up to new markets. Let us stop thinking that only the Deutsche Bahn can be competitive in Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u443	We favor it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u444	Mr Zulesi, I'm asking you for a second. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that we listened to you earlier, so I ask you to listen to the speaker, Mr Zulesi, and to show the same respect that has been shown to you by our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u445	We congratulate him, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u446	Only Mr Zulesi has the floor, and his time will be extended. Dear colleague, please continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u447	The SNCF will be conquering, as long as we give it the means. Finally, competition is also the promise of better service at a better cost to the user.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u448	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u449	My region, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, awaits him with serenity. The Regional Council has even one step ahead, since it has already launched a call for demonstration...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u450	[[Rires on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] There will be demonstrations, for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u451	...of interest in the operation of its lines. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe in SNCF, and it is because we believe in it and its railwaymen that we will enable them to look forward with confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u452	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u453	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is the whole meaning of this new railway pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u454	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u455	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u456	[[Laughs]] What a shame! You wouldn't have one like that again?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u457	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u458	The various interventions do require some clarification on my part. First of all, with regard to the method chosen, it aims to reconcile the urgency of action and the willingness to consult widely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u459	In haste!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u460	For the consultation, it's missed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u461	Yes, Mr Bouillon, there is an urgent need to act because, if it were to go in the right direction, which I do not dispute, the 2014 reform did not foresee anything with regard to the timetables for opening up to competition, the arrangements for the transfer of employees and the guarantees given to those same employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u462	That's not surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u463	Despite your efforts, Madam Minister, you will not succeed in destroying the SNCF!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u464	As you know, the deadline for transposing the fourth railway package directive – including the decrees – was set for December 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u465	You can only obey the guidelines!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u466	You have the opportunity to change this date!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u467	There is therefore an urgent need to act. This is not just a technocratic deadline: opening up to competition is planned in December 2019. There is therefore an urgent need to act. Moreover, the latest incidents, such as the difficulties experienced by travellers during their daily transport, confirm this urgency. For that reason, the Government had chosen a two-month and three-month parliamentary dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u468	They won't last much longer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u469	Indeed, in order to reconcile consultation and parliamentary debate, the bill that I introduced to the Council of Ministers on 14 March was an enabling bill authorizing, in accordance with the Constitution, the Government to take a number of measures by order. We had committed ourselves to replacing by amendment in the bill – whenever we have, in the process of consultation, sufficiently advanced on a subject – the enabling clauses affected by the hard-core provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u470	No impact assessment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u471	That is what I did before the debate in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u472	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u473	We need impact studies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u474	I tell you, Mrs Rabault: yes, the provisions on opening up to competition have been debated in committee. We will be able to debate, during the public debate on the bill, the amendments that have been tabled with respect to the organization. Mr Prud'homme, the amendments are not tabled in catini:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u475	Or out of time?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u476	A Sunday! What do you call that, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u477	... they are public and can then be debated. I am also replying to Mr Faure, although he has left the Chamber: yes, these amendments take account of consultation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u478	Why did you rule out any consultation with Members of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u479	... both the first amendment I tabled on opening up to competition – which takes into account certain proposals from trade unions which are not in principle opposed to opening up to competition – and a number of other amendments, tabled either by the rapporteur or by the Government to take account of the new proposals from these same trade unions. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] No, Mr. Sermier, it's not about acting in haste. It was strictly the method that had been announced:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u480	It's a bad method!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u481	...to reconcile the urgency of action and the desire for concerted action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u482	Why didn't you table your amendments when we examined the text in committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u483	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let the minister speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u484	I would also like to point out everything that this reform is not. First of all, Mr Sermier, it is not the reform of the small lines. The subject has already been debated during the discussion of a number of amendments in committee: I do not think that it is at national level that the fate of the regional lines should be decided. These regional lines, their future must be discussed at regional level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u485	Yet we must give them the means to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u486	And put it in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u487	But, ladies and gentlemen, this is the case in the context of the State-region plan contracts, which I would remind you will be respected!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u488	Without funding? It's called relaying the hot potato to the regions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u489	In addition, the amendment introduced by the rapporteur will allow us to have an update, with a view to preparing future plan contracts. I also want to say to Mrs Rabault – if, however, she would like to listen to me (Exclaims on the benches of the NG and LR groups) –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u490	But I'm listening to you, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u491	It would be better for the minister to listen to the MPs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u492	...that, with regard to tolls, the Transport Code provides for the opinion of ARAFER and the opinion of the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u493	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u494	Furthermore, on a proposal from the rapporteur, we have tabled an amendment to ensure that tolls do not impede the maintenance or development of lines in line with spatial planning objectives. I invite you to refer to this amendment, which was adopted in committee. Mr Bricout, I want to reassure you: no, the state will not be defeated, it will continue to accompany the regions in maintaining these small lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u495	Including the Abbeville line - Le Tréport?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u496	The mobility guidance bill will increase the use of these lines, thanks to the establishment of organizing authorities, which are now sorely lacking in 80 per cent of our territory. Nor is this reform the reform towards privatization. As regards the opening up of the TERs to competition, I repeat, it is a matter of maintaining the public service to French: it is the public community which organises the public service, defines the services, the services, the associations, the rates. Yes, Mr. Bouillon, the OSP regulation reflects this idea of French-language public service. No, Mr. Prud'homme – who is no longer here –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u497	Yes, he's here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u498	..., there will be no abandonment of the small lines. We need to get out of this debate on lines that would be profitable and others that would not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u499	That is what the Spinetta report says!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u500	I would point out that, at the national level, travellers finance an average of 25% of the cost of TER service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u501	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u502	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] The concept of profitability therefore does not apply to TER lines, which fall within the scope of the public service. These lines will remain managed by a public infrastructure manager as part of a public service delegation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] All this will be done under the responsibility of the regions, Mr Wulfranc. I am indeed committed to decentralization – as I think a number of parliamentarians are on these benches. The change of status is not a privatisation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u503	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u504	...let's stop inciting fear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u505	It's social dumping!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u506	It will be stipulated in the law that SNCF is a national company with public capital, held by the State and whose securities will be ineligible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u507	Like GDF?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u508	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] Let's not mix it up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u509	Ladies and gentlemen, you have already asked the Minister about your interventions. Let her speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u510	She thinks we're redfish!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u511	All railway undertakings in Europe are public companies. This is the case, for example, with the German railways.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u512	The German railways don't work, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u513	All, with the exception of companies in England, which I said was not our model, are public companies, mostly since the early 1990s.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u514	All this is not very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u515	If: the capital will be well!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u516	I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, as well as the rapporteur, for having pointed out that this rail reform was part of a global overhaul of our mobility policy, including the national foundations for mobility and the work of the Mobility Orientation Council – thank you, Mrs Pompili, Mr Orphelin, Mr Simian for bringing your light to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u517	And what lights!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u518	While iron must be the backbone of our sustainable mobility policy, we must also respond to the needs of all citizens in all territories. In this respect, there is a long way to go. The mobility policy bill will provide an opportunity to review governance and deal with the situation of the 80 per cent of the national territory in which there is no organizing authority, territories where neither rail transport nor even regular public transport can meet the needs of our fellow citizens. I would like to point out to Mr Prud'homme that the European Commission's notice on air quality concerns large agglomerations, in which we must resolutely...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u519	Disobey?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u520	... develop public transport and alternative modes of transport to the car. It is at the heart of the mobility policy that I pursue alongside Nicolas Hulot.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u521	You disobey European directives when it suits you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u522	Mr. Sermier, I'd like to reassure you... – but he's gone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u523	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u524	Everyone listens to you, Madam Minister. No one's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u525	The infrastructure programming bill will provide answers, with an intermodal approach, to the issue of infrastructure that has been promised for decades without funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u526	When?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u527	I will introduce this legislation in the coming weeks as part of the mobility policy bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u528	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u529	And when will you present the balance sheet of opening up freight to competition?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u530	I repeat: this rail reform is part of a global overhaul of our mobility policy. Moreover, I would like to stress that this is a comprehensive railway reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u531	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u532	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u533	Yes, we must open up to competition, because it is expected by travellers, who will benefit from new services, because it is expected by the regions, and because it is stimulating for SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u534	"Stimulant": that's the word!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u535	Mr Wulfranc, let us not let SNCF believe that the opening up to competition will not take place. Saying that is dangerous for SNCF, and it is dangerous for railway workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u536	It's your project that's dangerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u537	Mr Bouillon, the 2014 reform was certainly in the right direction, but it remained unfinished. The OSP regulation takes into account the French-language public service model. So let us stop saying that openness to competition is privatization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u538	And when did the balance sheet of opening up freight to competition?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u539	And no, we cannot simply open up to competition, because it would weaken the SNCF and the railway companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u540	Yes, the opening must be prepared!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u541	That is why we must at the same time provide for a common and equitable social framework. That is why we need to set up a more effective, unified organisation for the SNCF – I thank the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs for having stressed this. There will be guarantees of independence, Mr Sermier, and the role of ARAFER is to be the regulator of the whole sector; This role will be all the more important as the opening up to competition will now extend to passenger transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u542	And what about the balance sheet of opening up freight to competition?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u543	I repeat: this is not privatisation. All railway undertakings in Europe have the status of a public company. Mr Bricout, the situation of SNCF Stations Connections are indeed the subject of progress. It was time to reunite the various assets, those held by SNCF Mobilitys and those held by SNCF Réseau, in order to have a global vision of station management, with only one manager, a "station manager". It is not necessary to mix everything: the 46 billion euros in the performance contract between the State and SNCF Réseau include State-region plan contracts, which deal with subjects other than the renovation and modernisation of the network. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] With regard to the debt, on which we are urged to vote, I do not think it is arrogant to point out that no government has dealt with it so far! Let us not say in 2018 the opposite of what was said in 2017, Mr Bouillon. Ladies Lacroute, Beauvais, Rabault, Mister Sermier, we are working on it, and we are working very hard on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u544	With who? With Rothschild?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u545	In this regard, I do not confirm the information that has been given on the modalities. As I have had the opportunity to explain to the trade unions, it is no longer time to create a new ancillary debt amortization service, which would thus be consolidated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u546	It was a gabegie!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u547	But if we want to deal with this issue, it is important to bear in mind that between 2010 and 2016, the debt increased by EUR 15 billion, three quarters of which are not linked to the creation of new high-speed lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u548	And what is the share of financial costs?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u549	I'm not talking about financial costs either, Mrs. Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u550	And what is the share of excessive salaries of leaders?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u551	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Each year there is a deficit of EUR 3 billion, of which EUR 1.5 billion is financial: even if we remove these, we can see that the trajectory is not balanced. The challenge is therefore to deal with this debt, without having to return to it on a regular basis; This is the subject of ongoing work with SNCF. The status of a national company with public capital will make it possible to hold everyone accountable and to prevent debt from re-establishing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u552	It didn't work out with EDF!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u553	With regard to rail freight, Mr. Prud'homme, Mr. Wulfranc and Mr. Bouillon, the Government is dealing with it. There will be a meeting of all stakeholders on this subject tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u554	When's the result of opening up to competition?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u555	You know, you mustn't confuse everything; the country has deindustrialised, there was the crisis of 2008, at the same time, competition with the road has become much harsher, the price of fuels has fallen by some 40%, and 90% of the road transport market...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u556	Which you privileged!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u557	... is now owned by companies incorporated in third States. But yes, we are going to tackle this, and first of all by fighting unfair competition and social dumping.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u558	Is that why you accepted the status of posted worker? Don't tell us any stories!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u559	That is what I am fighting for in the context of the mobility package, in the wake of the fight led by the President of the Republic and the Government over the revision of the directive on posted workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u560	It hasn't changed anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u561	This is also the whole issue of financing the modernisation of railway infrastructure, service lines and yards. This is still the question of the trajectory of tolls and of aid for combined transport. However, it should not be imagined that all problems would be solved by massive increases in compulsory levies and that the road would pay nothing. I would remind you that the road, including light vehicles and heavy vehicles, pays 38 billion euros, of which three quarters via the internal consumption tax on energy products, the ICTPE. It's not nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u562	Yes, it's nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u563	No, it's not nothing. The minister is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u564	Please, let the minister answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u565	I think it's not nothing. Before concluding, I would like to reiterate solemnly that there is no question of the status of railway workers. All those who now enjoy this status at SNCF will keep it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u566	Let's just say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u567	Those who will be taken over by other companies will retain most of the guarantees linked to their former status: job security, retirement, remuneration. That seems to me to solve the question of seniority, Mrs Rabault: it is a real portability of the rights that we have organised!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u568	It's not written anywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u569	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In fact, the trade unions have not been wrong, since they have promoted an amendment aimed at extending this portability by providing benefits not only to SNCF Mobility employees, but also to SNCF Réseau employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u570	Yes! The "social backpack" is being expanded!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u571	It's not in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u572	I am telling you that an amendment has been tabled to that effect, Mrs Rabault. This is part of the parliamentary debate: a text is also being constructed by means of amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u573	We too have tabled amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u574	Mrs. Rabault, let the minister speak, please. You'll have plenty of time to express yourself later!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u575	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For new hires, we want to promote a principle of fairness, as part of a high-level collective agreement for the industry as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u576	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u577	We will also work with all the social partners to organise professional paths within the industry, because we are all well aware of the expectations of drivers who start their careers in the Transilien or in a TER and who, tomorrow, will want to continue their careers as TGV drivers. We have to deal with this at the branch level. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] In conclusion, there is a need for a comprehensive reform of the rail sector today. It is necessary to build this reform in concert, while leaving its place to the parliamentary debate – that is what we are doing. It is necessary to organise an opening to competition which is both progressive and protective. In doing so, it is essential to accompany the transformation of the SNCF so that it has all the advantages within the framework of competition, through a more efficient and unified organisation, and to prepare a fair and protective framework at the branch level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u578	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-09-O1181.u579	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the bill for a new railway pact. The meeting is adjourned.
