ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u1	The Assembly was informed of the request for the establishment of a special committee presented by the chairman of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for the consideration of the bill abolishing the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. An opposition from the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs came to the chair. The Assembly will therefore be called upon to decide on the request for the establishment of a special committee. It will be up to the Conference of Presidents to set the timetable for this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u2	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u3	Mr Thierry Solère, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 250, concerning the practice of medicine by doctors who did not support their thesis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u4	The Minister for Solidarity and Health, several dozen French doctors cannot practice in our territory, for lack of support for their thesis of completion of studies within the deadlines set. A decree of 2004 on the organization of the third cycle of medical studies imposed the defence of this thesis at the latest three years after graduation, in order to validate the state diploma of doctor in medicine, which is indispensable for exercising. It also provides that "students engaged in residency have until the end of the 2011-2012 academic year to validate the entire theoretical and practical training and support their thesis". This deadline has been imposed on professionals who, in most cases, already exercise, either as replacements for general practitioners or as interns in hospitals. Those who, for personal reasons, for lack of availability or even information have not defended their thesis in time are now forced to no longer exercise. They do, however, have the skills and experience indicated. Bernard Cazeneuve's government had planned to relax these provisions in order to allow doctors who had not completed their doctorates to work again. The 2016 Law on Modernisation, Development and Protection of Mountain Territories has thus authorized those who have not supported their thesis to register at the university, following the advice of a commission placed with the ministers of higher education and health, and provided that they undertake to practise in an under-funded area. Unfortunately, the decree in the Council of State, which was to define the modalities for the implementation of these provisions, has not yet been published. With regard to the investment, both economic and human, that their nine years of training at our universities have represented, it is aberrant to see doctors thus prevented from exercising. Indeed, if they are not doctors, they are doctors. In view of the medical desertification that can be observed in an increasing part of our territories, we cannot do without such a pool of skills. So what does the Government intend to do to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u5	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u6	Mr President, I am pleased to announce that, following the opinion given by the Council of State in March, the publication in the Official Gazette of the decree to apply the provisions added to article L. 632-4 of the Education Code by the Act of 28 December 2016 on the modernization, development and protection of mountain areas is now imminent. The aim was to deal with the situation of former medical residents who, having failed to present their thesis within the required eight-year period, were unable to practise medicine, despite their previous years of study. The decree thus determines the conditions under which former residents may be allowed to enrol in the university in order to support their thesis and thus obtain the diploma necessary for the practice of medicine. Of course, it is necessary to ensure that they have the required skills and knowledge. To this end, we are setting up a national commission composed of professionals concerned and chaired by the Directorate-General for the Provision of Care. It may authorise applicants to enrol in the university to support their thesis, if necessary after completing a further training course, on or off the internship. On the other hand, applicants will have to commit themselves to the honour of exercising, once the doctorate is obtained, in an under-funded area. An installation certificate issued by the regional health agency – ARS – of the region concerned will certify that this condition is met. Those concerned will have to file their files before the end of May if they want to register for the 2018-2019 university year. For subsequent years, the file must be filed before the end of February of the registration year. I hope, honourable Member, that I have answered your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u7	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u8	Mr José Évrard, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 262, on the health situation in Pas-de-Calais.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u9	The Minister of Solidarity and Health, according to a poll published in Le Figaro on 26 March, the French see a significant deterioration in their health system. The population of the former mining basin of the Pas-de-Calais region, particularly of the Lansois territory, is particularly affected by this negative development. This collapse of the health system takes place in a context of the collapse of a territory where employment is scarce, the population is transformed and weakened, both physically and psychologically, and where the old class solidarity is dilute. The former mining basin, home to 1.2 million people, has experienced a decline since the late 1980s, which seems to be inexorable. The unemployment rate, above the national average, is 13 per cent, reaching even 20 per cent in some of its areas, while the poverty rate is 23.1 per cent, compared with 18.2 per cent at the regional level and 14.5 per cent at the national level. From 1945 on, the struggles of the miners and their elected representatives led to the establishment of an original health model, consisting of a network of state-of-the-art medical centres, which, as an assistant to the public health system, provided both prevention and effective care to the people of the former mining basin. The shutdown of the coal mining operation and the closure of the factories called into question everything. As for the reindustrialization of the former mining basin, it did not meet the challenges. Since the explosion of this model, a growing part of the population has had a deteriorating state of health. The health indicators of men and women in the mining basin are very abnormally poor. The finding is known: the excess mortality in the mining basin relative to the regional average is particularly clear for certain respiratory diseases, for diseases of the circulatory system and for most cancers. For example, male mortality by cancer is 74.5% higher than the French average. While in such a context special care should be given to the former mining basin, a real plan to demolish the medical network and the public health service is being implemented. I am appreciative of the action of the trade unions which are alerting the public on this subject. Bed closures and the abolition of posts are increasing in line with the severe budget cuts imposed on the public hospital, even as the needs of the population increase. The three-year plan for the years 2015 to 2017 of the former Minister of Social Affairs and Health, Marisol Touraine, imposed savings of €3 billion over three years. The current government persists: 1.6 billion euros are claimed for 2018. In order to continue to operate, hospitals are in debt in a worrying way. In 2018, they will have a historical deficit of 1.5 billion euros, a three-fold increase in two years. The creation of the future hospital centre in Lens appears to be undersized. Its opening is conditioned by the drastic reduction of the deficits of public hospitals, resulting in forced restructuring under the guise of mutualisation, closures of services, massive removals of beds, as well as an acceleration of transfers of activities between establishments of the hospital group of territory – GHT –, according to a recommendation of the European Union, ultimately leading to a decrease in the quality of care, worse working conditions of staff, with the aim of privatizing health. The situation in the mining basin requires a plan of exceptional magnitude to restore the health of the population and avoid a human disaster. As a result, I ask you, Minister, to take a good look at the health issues in this territory. Is it not urgent to establish an ambitious plan for health, so as not to add misfortune to the calamity that this region is already experiencing?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u10	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u11	Mr President, it is quite correct that the health of a population is largely related to its socio-economic situation. The Territory's health indicators, although improving, remain an issue of concern. Beyond the mechanical effect that could result from the general rise in the social level of the population, the improvement of long-term health indicators – we are talking about generations – in this territory requires significant changes in behaviour, and therefore a major investment in the fields of prevention and health promotion. In partnership with local actors, the State has decided to mobilize ambitiously as part of its commitment to the renewal of the mining basin. The project to rebuild the hospital in Lens resulted in the announcement of a state funding of €102 million. The projection of the number of beds, which is in fact in decline, nevertheless corresponds to the current and future needs of the hospital as a public health institution of recourse for the mining basin of Pas-de-Calais within the framework of the GHT of Artois. The objective of the HHT is to provide the population with a better organisation and gradation of care in order to guarantee its quality and safety, but also to consolidate the activities and promote the attractiveness of the territory in the eyes of medical teams. The reduction in the number of beds, which is not specific to the mining basin, is not a sign of a decline in supply, but rather of a proactive policy of developing outpatient care which results in a reduction in average length of stay. The SRA has a very ambitious strategy for this territory. As part of the new regional health plan, which identifies the mining basin as a whole as a priority, we want to deploy a joint strategy with health insurance, to increase participation in cancer screenings – breast cancer, colorectal cancer, and soon, cervical cancer – on targeted cantons, by crossing the social disadvantage rate with the current participation rate for each screening. We also intend to implement a health prevention and promotion programme to reduce smoking, particularly in Lensois and Valencienois. In addition, health mediation will be developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u12	Please conclude, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u13	Mr President, I do not have time to list all our actions, but I can assure you that we have made the mining basin a priority for the SRA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u14	Mr Eric Woerth, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 239, concerning the public hospital group in southern Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u15	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to touch again with you on the situation of the hospital group in southern Oise – GHPSO – resulting from the administrative merger of the hospitals in Senlis and Creil. At our meeting in January, we had already had the opportunity to discuss this issue with the main stakeholders. Since then, the situation has changed quite positively, since last week the medical committee of establishment voted almost unanimously for the medical project and the distribution of activities. I therefore wished, Madam Minister, that you could again speak on three points, in confirmation. First of all, I would like to hear you reaffirm the medical and surgical vocation of the Senlis site. The two sites of Senlis and Creil must be able to benefit from a balanced distribution in line with the needs of the population, which can confirm the sustainability of these hospitals: maternity, gynaecology and obstetrics would be grouped in Senlis and heavy surgery concentrated in Creil, the ambulance being developed on both sites. Can you, Madam Minister, confirm the SRA's support for such a distribution? The second topic concerns Creil's emergencies, which are in a pitiful state, unworthy of a hospital. We must inject money, a lot of money, to renovate them, in order to attract doctors who, today, probably don't want to work there, because their conditions of exercise, as well as those of the entire staff, are bad. For patients in this area, so close to Paris, to be received with dignity and security, it is essential to renovate Creil's emergencies, and to confirm the existence of Senlis's. Last point: recruitment. This hospital has a lot of difficulty recruiting, regardless of the quality of the director, who does a lot to try to clarify things. Even if we are not the only ones in this case, we need to recruit. To help us do this, we need the full support of the SRA. This beautiful project has suffered from many goings and goings and indecisions. Today, as we move into action mode, we need full support. I have no doubt about yours, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u16	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u17	Mr President, first of all, in the terms of our discussion, I would like to confirm the reorganization of maternity, the obstetric part of which will be installed in Senlis while the perinatal unit will be maintained on the Creil site. As far as emergencies are concerned, as you know, the GHT has not only two authorisations to exercise emergency medicine, one on the Creil site and the other on the Senlis site, for a management by an emergency structure – SU – and a mobile emergency and resuscitation structure – SMUR – but also a authorisation for the structure of paediatric emergencies – SUP – exercised on the Creil site. The proposed reorganization of the facility's emergency services, which is consistent with the logic of improving the efficiency of the activities present at the two sites of GHPSO, has not yet been finalized. This is in fact a complete reorganization of the activities in Senlis and Creil. This project is based in particular on the formation of a joint medical team, which does not currently exist. It should be recalled that, under the current rules, authorisation of emergency medicine can only be granted to an establishment with medical hospital beds and a technical tray for surgery, medical imaging and biology. It is also subject to an activity threshold, fixed by decree, of 8,000 passages per year. Any holder of an emergency medical authorisation undertakes to operate 24 hours a day every day of the year for each of the procedures for carrying out the activity. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Given these constraints, I can confirm to you, honourable Member, that the emergency department at Senlis will continue to be open 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u18	The floor is open to Ms. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere, to put her question, No. 256, concerning the Centre expert autisme du Limousin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u19	My question is to the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons. As the Government prepares to announce the fourth autism plan, a report by the Court of Auditors indicates that, in our country, 90 per cent of children under the age of five with autism spectrum disorders – TSA – are excluded from the benefit of early intensive intervention. This intervention is scientifically recognized as an effective preventive measure: it improves the prognosis throughout life and its human and socio-economic consequences are proven. In Upper Vienna, in 2014, the State formalised commitments to create an experimental model for early intensive intervention in a journey investment contract – CIP. In Limoges, an expert centre was set up to provide assistance to all children in the department under the age of five with ASD. The results are remarkable: after three years of operation, the enrolment rate has increased by almost fourfold. This experiment represents a model and hope for all French parents. This model will be restructured administratively. The aim is to extend the intensive early intervention to Creuse and Corrèze. A report issued a few weeks ago by the regional health agency – ARS – of Nouvelle-Aquitaine must serve as the basis for this development. However, it does not seem likely to alleviate the concerns expressed in recent months about the sustainability of the overall system, combining diagnosis and early intervention. The lack of any clarification of the overall budget for the new specifications raises concerns that a number of children may be deprived of the benefit of early intervention without the health assessment and medico-economic evaluation provided for in the ICP. What assurance can the Government give regarding the fulfilment of the commitments made in 2014 towards a centre that is a centre of excellence, the results of which could serve as a model for the fourth autism plan? Will the commitment to a multidisciplinary medico-economic evaluation of experimentation be respected?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u20	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u21	First of all, Madam Member, I would like to apologize for the absence of Mrs Sophie Cluzel, who was unfortunately detained elsewhere this morning and who asked me to replace her. The day after the International Autism Day, I am pleased to reassure you, and to reassure all the parents concerned of the Limousin, about the future of the expert autism center in Haute-Vienne, funded on an experimental basis, as part of the Autism Plan 2013-2017, by the ARS of Limousin. This experimental device has two main functions. First, early diagnosis of children with autistic spectrum disorder; Secondly, the implementation of early interventions, in line with the recommendations of good practice. The CIP funding you mentioned today amounts to €2.4 million. As you indicate, in 2017 the scheme was the subject of an evaluation and support mission implemented by the ARS of Nouvelle-Aquitaine in consultation with all stakeholders and associations. This assessment was particularly necessary, since the medico-economic assessment you are referring to, as part of the CIP, was not produced by the expert centre. The mission reported on its findings and recommendations at a meeting held on 16 February. There was no substantive disagreement among the participants. The parents concerned were received and constantly listened to by the ARS of New Aquitaine, and were able, at the end of the meeting, to transmit their contribution in writing. It is therefore a transparent and co-constructional approach that has emerged through the SRA. As you indicate, the overall assessment report of the RSA – which will only become final in the coming weeks – shows that the results of the expert centre are undeniably positive with regard to the implementation of the recommendations of good practice of the High Authority for Health – HAS – and the National Agency for the Evaluation and Quality of Social and Medical Institutions and Services, ANESM, as well as the quality of service to parents and children. The report stresses, however, that significant improvements need to be made, given the weaknesses identified in the management of the system. For example, professionals who implement early post-diagnosis interventions have no fewer than three different employers. Moreover, and perhaps most importantly, the centre's territorial coverage is insufficient. Allow me to quote a few figures: in 2016, only 57 diagnoses were issued by the centre, 77% of which concerned children from Haute-Vienne, for children under the age of six, while the regional centre is also intended to allow children from Creuse and Corrèze to have access to early diagnosis. Moreover, the centre is still too much on its own: it has not been able to implement the cooperation expected with the other partners financed from public funds. Finally, the comparison, from the point of view of the cost of care, between the centre and other regional structures is not in favour of the first: the financial ratio of a diagnosis per capita, per 100,000 inhabitants aged 0-29, stands at 145672 euros for the expert centre of the Limousin, i.e. almost twice that of the Aquitaine in general, which is 75700 euros. The performance and optimization of the centre's operation are therefore clearly at stake. The quality of services must not distract us from the need to ensure the increased efficiency of what is financed from public funds. Clearly, this centre can and must do better in the light of the resources allocated to it. You asked me about the short-term evolution of the experimental device. I would like to reassure you that it is well planned to continue to be implemented. To date, I recall, this scheme has received very substantial but non-permanent funding, and the ARS of Nouvelle-Aquitaine has planned to continue financing the Centre's activities towards the three departments of the former Limousin region. This new financial security will have to lead to significant improvements in the points I have just mentioned, which require progress, and to the full inclusion of the centre in the guidelines of the new autism strategy within the national territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u22	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to put his question, No 232, on offshore wind.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u23	Nicolas Hulot, Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, said a few months ago: "On wind at sea, we did wrong. » With regard to the offshore project Le Tréport-Dieppe, it was indeed wrong with the world of fishing, by imposing in 2013 for the establishment of the wind farm, the most resource-rich area in the entire East Channel, an area that had been rejected in the previous call for tenders. It was also wrong to deal with the marine park, which was withdrawn from its assent competence during 2017; result: the park exploded in flight. But the show doesn't stop there. The government, through a legislative rider in the Senate, is trying to twist the arms of the consortiums that award the contracts for the six offshore projects in progress to lower the price of electricity output – as if Bercy had just discovered that this price was high and that technology had evolved since 2013! We all understood that this was a blow from Trafalgar in the negotiation of the price of electricity. Two exits are possible now: it passes or breaks. Of which act. This proves, first, that the state, when it wants it, is not so disarmed as that to act. What we have been asking for for the offshore wind project for several months The Tréport-Dieppe was therefore possible: the vote on the text simplifying the procedures for the development of marine energies could have been used to relaunch a project equivalent to the current Tréport project in an area more westward, less penalizing for fishing. This means, secondly, that the statements made by the Government last autumn in Le Havre on the need to develop marine energies by having a comprehensive vision and prior resolution of conflicts of practice still await concrete translation. The third lesson of what has just happened in the Senate is that the Government's definition of the general interest is for the time being limited to controlling the price of electricity output. We fear the double penalty, that is, in the case of Tréport, a project that will hurt our artisanal fishing already threatened by Brexit and the collateral effects of electricity fishing in the North Sea, and, moreover, renegotiated projects that offer consortia the opportunity to make the industrial issue and the famous plants in Cherbourg and Le Havre the variable for adjusting negotiations with the Government. So my questions are simple. Is the promise of an industrial sector and the number of jobs, in your opinion, negotiable in the negotiations with the beneficiaries of wind farms? Are the compensatory measures promised to the territories – particularly in the areas of training and fisheries – also negotiable? In short, do industrial jobs and the future of fishing enter for you into the field of general interest when you renegotiate, and what guarantees can you – in Normand, Mr. Secretary of State, therefore as a neighbour – get for this park and for the territory you know well?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u24	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u25	Mr President, I will answer you not only in Normand, but also as a member of the Government, on an important issue for all of us, because we need marine renewable energies to succeed in our energy transition and our new electricity mix. We need all renewable energies, but especially wind turbines at sea. Now, as you know, their number in France is modest: there is one, experimental, on float, off Saint-Nazaire. It is therefore a matter of the Government's rapid release of these energies. As part of the bill for a state to serve a trust society, we have proposed a number of important measures to this end, including the installation. If almost no wind turbine is installed at sea today, it is due to numerous recourses and formidable technical, regulatory or litigation complications. That is why we have introduced the "envelope permit", which makes it possible to use the most recent technology even if the right was opened on a fairly old date. The logic is the same for the connection to the earth stations supported by the Electricity Transmission Network – TEN. That's for the release measures. It turns out that today the cost of marine renewable energies is decreasing. We should all rejoice. Thus, in the North Sea, a first park will emerge – the call for tenders has just ended – without a cent of public subsidy being paid. It means – forgive me, honourable Member, for talking about the market – that the supply meets the demand in this area. This is, of course, good news for you and us alike. The issue of the amendment tabled in the Senate may have been misunderstood; I take advantage of your question to explain it again. It is of course a matter of allowing a negotiation with the project promoters for the six parks chosen in the context of the tenders launched between 2011 and 2013, so that the cost of the parks – 2 billion euros per year for 20 years, or 40 billion euros – tends to approximate the costs of the current market, in connection with the current technologies, in accordance with what the permit envelope makes possible. The aim is not to save on these 2 billion euros – I assure you immediately on this point – but to see how, with this sum, placed on a special trust account, install more wind turbines than those of the six parks already known. This is the subject of a negotiation that we wish to conduct with the various project promoters in the coming weeks; In any case, decisions will be taken quickly. I tell you by looking straight into your eyes: we are committed to the industrial sector in this field, in Normandy as elsewhere. The real challenge for us is, of course, to join the market; Too much time has been lost. It is true that the amendment tabled in the Senate was able to create some trouble, some of which had to make their honey; But I hope to reassure you on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u26	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u27	I will ensure that the promises of compensation for the territory, in particular industrial irrigation, are kept, in particular in Le Havre and Cherbourg, as well as the promises made to the fishermen, since the consortium has committed itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u28	Mr Stéphane Buchou, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 255, on the conformity of defence works against the sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u29	Secretary of State, on Sunday 4 March, a tribute was paid to the twenty-nine victims of storm Xynthia in La Fault-sur-Mer, Vendée. In the aftermath of the sinister night of February 2010, during which a total of 47 people lost their lives, the State committed itself with determination to a long and necessary series of works. In February 2011, the interdepartmental plan for the prevention of rapid submersions was launched, which provided for the strengthening, by 2016, of 1200 kilometres of dyke at the national level. But two years later, given the complexity of environmental and technical procedures, work was delayed. A support mission was then devised to simplify these procedures and to speed up the implementation of flood prevention action programmes. In the Vendée, where I am elected, eight years after the tragedy, only one third of the 75 kilometers of dyke have been renovated. Who can be satisfied with such a finding? What can thus paralyse the manifest political will of a State with a structured internal organization? Why can't the state give substance to its intentions? To interrogate is not to condemn; My research is that of the light produced by collective intelligence. In the face of climate change and the risks involved in natural disasters, protecting and securing people are more than ever a priority issue. The issue remains urgent. A legislative project is therefore probably to be imagined in order to harmonize the various laws on the protection of the environment. But the scope of such a project would push back the answers very far in time, while the need for us to find them without delay. Faced with such problems, local populations and elected officials blame the state for its inertia, which would soon be called imputable in the event of a new tragedy. Is that what we want? In the spirit of the draft law for a State at the service of a society of trust, what actions does the Government intend to take to make effective simplification measures to speed up the work to bring the defences against the sea into conformity and thus ensure the safety of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u30	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u31	Mr President, the succession in recent years of disasters linked to particularly intense weather events has shown the importance of a strong intervention by the public authorities – State and local authorities – in the field of flood prevention, both overseas and in metropolitan France – your department is proof of this. I was, by the way, a few weeks ago in Charente-Maritime to study these issues. You are questioning the Government this morning about plans to follow the tragic events in Xynthia. As you indicate, not all of the projects planned for 2011 have been completed within the expected time frame. Indeed, the dikes are very complex and sometimes contested projects: choice of route, technical modalities or financing. Today, the majority of these situations have been able to find answers. But this has also been achieved thanks to significant progress, such as the creation and implementation since 1 January 2018 of the competence for the management of aquatic environments and for the prevention of floods – GEMAPI – which has allowed for a recast, for greater efficiency, of the governance concerning the protection against floods and against the sea, particularly with regard to the management of dikes. A place is left to the departmental councils which, in your department as in neighbouring departments, have played an important role in this area. The experience of the first projects established after Xynthia has also shown the need to simplify regulatory tools. This is why environmental regulation has recently evolved, mainly with the creation of the single environmental authorisation fully in force since 1 July 2017. This reform allows the various procedures previously provided for in the Environmental Code to be grouped into a single procedure. This is a major step in improving the implementation of projects. In addition, I would like to commend the strong mobilization of local actors following Xynthia. In the sector that has been affected, there are thirty-one flood prevention action programmes – PAPI – and containment projects within the framework of the national rapid submersion plan, for a total investment of 378 million euros, to which the State, through the Barnier Fund and the budget programme "Risk prevention" of my Ministry, contributes to the amount of 150 million euros. Throughout the national territory, the State and local authorities are strongly involved in a comprehensive approach to flood risk prevention, ensuring that knowledge of hazards, vigilance mechanisms, information and awareness-raising is not likely to be sufficient, or that the vulnerability of the territories, including public and private buildings, is reduced. Mobilising all these levers for action is essential to meet the challenges of floods. There is a need to remain fully mobilized on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u32	Mr Stéphane Buchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u33	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State, and I, too, remain mobilized. I have heard that the work should be carried out. We will both be careful to ensure that they are done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u34	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor to put her question, No. 252, on the regulation of riddles on heavy vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u35	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the risk to the safety of road users and transport users of heavy vehicles equipped with riddles. As you know, Secretary of State, on the morning of Thursday 11 February 2016 in Rochefort, a school bus was crossing a dumpster truck whose left side wrinkler was 90 degrees open. Stuck on the opposite track at the time of the crossing, the wrinkle sheared all the left side of the bus, killing six young high school students sitting on the window side. More than two years after this tragedy, the trauma is still heavy in Rochefort, especially since a new fatal accident, linked to an open wrinkle, occurred again last November in my constituency in Peré, killing a father of three children. The Land Transportation Accident Investigation Office – the BEA-TT – issued its report, which makes two recommendations. In the first, for new riddles on heavy vehicles, the BEA-TT proposes to make the installation of audible and visual alarms in the cab mandatory, indicating to the driver that one or more of these riddles are not in a safe displacement position. These devices already exist, but they are only installed at the customer's request. These alarms shall not be capable of being easily deactivated by the driver and may be replaced or supplemented by devices preventing the advance of the vehicle or limiting it to a very low speed, e.g. five kilometres per hour. I would add that current owners should be strongly encouraged to equip their vehicles with such devices. In its second recommendation, the BEA-TT recommends that the risk of non-folding or non-locking by the driver of devices exceeding the normal vehicle gauge be incorporated into the single staff health and safety risk assessment document. To prevent such tragedies from happening again, could you tell us, Secretary of State, at what time do you intend to decide on the regulatory developments proposed by the BEA-TT?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u36	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u37	Mrs Borne, Minister for Transport, who cannot be present this morning, has asked me to answer you. You are asking the Government about the recommendations proposed in the report of the Land Transportation Accident Investigation Bureau following the tragic accidents you mentioned. As you know, the BEA-TT proposes to make the installation of audible and visual alarms in the cab mandatory, warning the driver that one or more of the riddles are not lowered. This provision is not required under the vehicle type-approval regulations. Where appropriate, it should be introduced at the UNECE level, followed by EU regulations. If this solution seems desirable, unfortunately it cannot be considered in the very short term. For this reason, the Government is currently exploring other avenues and analysing the legal conditions for the implementation of this recommendation within the framework of national regulations. In addition, several organizations are currently working with industry professionals on how to follow this recommendation. This is the case, for example, of the professional body for the prevention of buildings and public works which wishes to work with the profession of carrossers to study and install safety devices controlling the proper locking of riddles. The Government will keep you informed of progress in this regard. We have, as you can see, full awareness of the stakes, and we have a thought for the victims of the disasters that you have recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u38	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u39	Thank you, Secretary of State, for these elements. I would like to reiterate the urgency of the situation. However, I have confidence in the Government and I hope that we will take the necessary steps very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u40	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, to put question No. 234 by Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, concerning the deviation of the RN 66 in the Upper Rhine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u41	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the traffic conditions on national road 66 in the Haut-Rhin department are often difficult and have a significant impact on the daily lives of the inhabitants of the Thur Valley, who use this road every day to get to their places of work, drop their children off at school or visit their relatives. This axis is central and indispensable, because it is unique. But it does not meet the expectations of the inhabitants of the Thur Valley. The severe daily disruptions experienced by road users underline the urgency of finding a lasting solution through an investment strategy that will finally facilitate the transport conditions of the inhabitants of this valley. The proposed deviation of RN 66 from Bitschwiller-les-Thann and Willer-sur-Thur was the subject of a first declaration of public utility in September 2007. This declaration, extended by prefectural order in 2012, expired on 20 September 2017. While the wish for a second extension of the declaration of public utility had been expressed in June 2016, the Government unfortunately did not wish to extend the declaration beyond 20 September 2017. However, the situation cannot remain as it is. Provisions are urgently required. A day of discussion and reflection, held on 22 February, recalled, if necessary, the strong expectations expressed by the communities involved in this issue. Because the quality of transport in the valley has a strong economic but also social dimension, because the development of a territory is intimately linked to the ability to move there in good conditions, what credible alternatives to deviation does the Government intend to propose and what would be, given the urgency of the situation, the timetable for implementation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u42	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u43	[[Smile]] Mr Schellenberger has given you his question, Mrs Borne has given me the answer, and we are doing good messengers this morning. The Government shares Raphaël Schellenberger's view of the need to act effectively and quickly to improve traffic conditions and reduce nuisances on RN 66 in the Haut-Rhin – far from the Touquet – it must be agreed – especially in the crossing of Bitschwiller-lès-Thann. With regard to the Bitschwiller-lès-Thann diversion project, the Government decided last year not to extend the declaration of public utility of the operation, as the latest studies showed a significant increase in the cost of the project and showed quite significant environmental impacts. In addition, no financing plan to cover the entire amount of the operation's work could be concluded with the local and regional authorities concerned. At the same time, the Minister responsible for transport has requested that the appropriations for the studies of the deviation of Bitschwiller-lès-Thann from the current State-region plan contract be reoriented with a view to identifying realistic adjustments, in order to deal with the sections of the RN 66 most exposed to nuisances and those most concerned with road safety issues, in particular in the agglomeration of Thann. The elected representatives concerned will of course be involved in this process. In addition, I would like to announce that the Minister has requested an opportunity study on the technical and financial feasibility of an increase in the level 22 crossing at Thann. In parallel with this study, shorter-term measures, such as changing the lamp system or optimizing the functioning of the barriers, can be implemented quickly in order to improve the operation of this crossing. I will be next week in Mr Schellenberger's constituency to examine the Fessenheim file. I will therefore have the opportunity to meet the various elected representatives who will undoubtedly be asking me about this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u44	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u45	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer. There may be low-cost developments that can be carried out quickly. I hope that they will make a real difference in the situation and that they will not be a manoeuvre to postpone more substantial but necessary work in order to solve the problem definitively.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u46	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to put his question, No 260, on road infrastructure in the Vosges.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u47	Secretary of State, I would like to take this opportunity to question you about two very important roads for the inhabitants of the third constituency of the Vosges of which I am elected. First of all, on the RN 66, borrowed by more than 10,000 vehicles a day and passing through several city centres, including the Thillot, we have had to deplore too many fatal accidents – two more in the last two years. It is necessary for the State to invest in the rehabilitation of this road covered by roughness and simply unworthy. Still on this axis, the municipality of Thillot wants to restore the crossroads where a young girl lost her life two years ago. Unfortunately, it cannot do so alone, and the State must be at its side. Secretary of State, the money at stake is derisory and the goal has no price. Can you get involved with him? For many years, we have been promised a deviation between Ferdrupt and Saint-Maurice-sur-Moselle, in the continuity of that of Rupt-sur-Moselle, with always the same objectives: saving lives and opening up our territories – two objectives that the Government also seems to want to pursue. It is necessary to include this project, for which a public utility order has just been signed again, in the next State-region plan contract. Can you commit yourself to this? Finally, I wanted to address the issue of traffic on RN 57, particularly at the level of La Demoiselle's rise. It has progressed for years in this area, reaching now more than 15,000 vehicles a day, including a very large number of heavy goods vehicles. The noise pollution is extremely harmful to the inhabitants, and the installation of noise-resistant walls would be necessary. Again, the investment is not huge, but it would be beneficial for the population. Mr Secretary of State, while rural areas need positive signals that you do not forget them, and as you are looking for solutions to reduce road mortality, I propose concrete examples and suggest concrete actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u48	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u49	Your question, honourable Member, concerns the state of road infrastructure in the Vosges, particularly RN 57 and RN 66. I know your commitment to and attention to your territory. You rightly recall that these axes are important for the mobility of the Vosgians and indispensable for the opening up of the region. With regard to noise nuisances at the edge of RN 57, I would like to point out that the State has committed itself under the current State-region plan contract on a programme to reduce noise pollution along national roads and motorways not granted in Lorraine. As such, a substantial envelope of more than €20 million, fully financed by the State, is included in the contract for the installation of sound protections. This envelope covers a number of operations, including the production of sound protections at Thaon-les-Vosges, along the RN 57, where work began. In view of the multiplicity of regional priorities, the sound protections in the centre of Saint-Nord, classified as "noise black dot", could not at this stage be included in the programme chosen under this envelope. You are also quoting a need for sound protection at La Demoiselle in the commune of Saint-Nord, but the plan to prevent noise in the environment does not classify it as a "noise black spot". Therefore, sound protection work at this location has not been scheduled at this stage. Another subject: the last accidents listed on RN 66 are located in agglomeration crossings. As you know, actions to improve road safety are the responsibility of the municipalities. The interdepartmental road management will be at their disposal to provide expertise in the conduct of these actions and, where appropriate, engineering support. Finally, as regards the condition of the roads of the RN 66 between Ferdrupt and Bussang, on the 17 km of the route, 11 are crossing agglomeration, which benefit from the multiannual intervention programme. The main works planned this year are located in the crossing of Ramonchamp. Also know that the rehabilitation of the carriageways in the crossing of Fresse, the maintenance of the carriageways at the junction with the RN 57 and at the entrance of the agglomeration of Ferdrupt, as well as the maintenance of the carriageways at the Col de Bussang will take place between 2019 and 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u50	After this beautiful visit of the department of Vosges, the floor is to Mr Christophe Naegelen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u51	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, but it leaves several points outstanding. With regard to the RN 57, it is between Saint-Nombières and Plombières – an area located at the start of a coast – that it is imperative to install noise-resistant walls. The population has set up a collective and it is important to support it. As far as RN 66 is concerned, I would like to see you comment on the deviation that we are promised. The Prefect has extended the order declaring a public utility, but I would like to know the state of the Government's consideration of this deviation and when it could be included in the State-region plan contract. Finally, you are right about the Thillot junction: the municipality will take over some of the work, but since the place is located along a national road, the state must also assume its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u52	Mr Adrien Quatennens, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 231, concerning the opening up of public rail service to competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u53	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. On this day when the mobilisation begins, I would like to ask him about the application of the European directives contained in the Commission's fourth railway package, which foresees the generalisation, in the short term, of the opening up of the sector to competition. What the Government calls a reform of the SNCF is in fact only the result of the questioning of the public railway service and the liberalization of the sector. This movement has begun since the Act of 13 February 1997 adopted under Alain Juppé to transpose the European Directive of 21 July 1991. It provided for the separation between the network and the operation and, above all, opened up a right of access to the network to private operators. The succession of European railway packages in 2001, 2004 and 2007 accelerated the process. They were applied in France by the Raffarin, Villepin and Fillon governments. It is in their steps that the current Government is taking action: to implement the fourth railway package of 2014 and to complete the liberalisation of the sector by 2020 for high-speed lines and 2023 for the so-called secondary network, which contributes to territorial cohesion. However, there is no objective justification for opening up to competition. The Government intends to extend it to passenger transport, although no record has been made of the liberalisation of freight in France. In the United Kingdom, where these European directives have been applied most quickly, two out of three users are for renationalisation. They condemn the price increases and the decline in the quality of service of private operators: 27 per cent on average of the increase in the price of tickets, but almost 80 per cent of trains late on several lines since the opening to competition. Therefore, my question is: what are the real motivations of this Government, which ultimately envisages this reform only under the prism of its absolute faith in the dogma of the free market?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u54	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u55	Mr Quatennens, you are not going to find out this morning that I do not agree with your approach, that we have commented a lot recently. Rather than citing the British example, why not mention the German example? In Germany, competition has been open for more than 25 years. Deutsche Bahn remains a large German company; Contrary to what is sometimes heard on the air, it has not been privatized. The quality of service has greatly improved and the number of travellers has increased, which is very virtuous in terms of ecological transition. We therefore believe that this is an example to follow. In France, the opening to competition has already been made for international passenger transport and freight. It has many interests, so apart from a dogma on your part – that of opposing it no matter what – I don't see what is forcing you to make this statement this morning. The opening to competition was decided in 2015, under the previous quinquennium; It is a matter for us to apply it in consultation with all the social partners, in order to bring into the law elements which have been agreed between the representatives of the various trade unions and the Government. For the regional lines, the horizon has been set at December 2019; For TGV lines, we also work in good intelligence with the social partners. I understand that, for ideological reasons, you do not agree, but for pragmatic reasons, you must recognise that the German model in this field is not to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u56	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u57	It is interesting that you quote the German model because in Germany, the state has taken over the operator's debt. Does the Government commit to this this morning?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u58	We never said we wouldn't do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u59	You never said you would either!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u60	Don't sue us for intent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u61	Behind the laudable intention to improve the service, displayed on the air – to use your expression – you are engaged in a zealous translation of the European directives which must lead to an opening to competition. But, Mr Secretary of State, to date no one is able to demonstrate the link between opening up to competition and improving service. Contradictory examples can be cast into the picture without reaching a conclusion. The reality is that in order to satisfy the Europe of ideologues, you defeat France, what it is – especially the public service of rail. Today, in the context of an ecological crisis, we need a strategist state; more than ever we need a public rail hub that allows us to make great choices. The implementation of these directives will severely handicap our country in the face of the challenges before it. Everyone must understand this morning that the railwaymen involved do not fight for themselves or for their particular status, but for a model and for the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u62	Except it doesn't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u63	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, to put his question, No. 238, on the Paris - Amiens - Boulogne-sur-Mer line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u64	Mr Secretary of State, my question is addressed to the Minister responsible for transport and concerns the situation of the railway line between Paris, Amiens and Boulogne-sur-Mer. First of all, I want to associate with my question the elected representatives of the Picardian coast and the Opal Coast, as well as the economic actors and users gathered within the Ferelec association that I co-chair with the mayor of Abbeville. At our last meeting, which followed several field meetings and a large survey conducted over several months, I was asked to question you on three points. First of all, the users of this line are overwhelmed by repeated delays, when they do not give up taking the train as it has become common that it does not arrive on time. The problem of equipment and personnel: at every delay, there is a different explanation, but it must be understood above all that this Intercity line is the least of the worries of the SNCF and the Ministry of Transport, questioned several times without success. A glimmer of hope emerged when the state finally reached an agreement with the region to replace rolling stock. In March 2017, a convention promised that the State would pay 400 million euros to the region for the purchase of new equipment and 15 million euros per year for the operation of the lines. But nothing has been done and some trains, sometimes dating back to 1975, continue to operate while they are very damaged and very degraded. Finally, despite the inclusion in the State-region plan contract of electrification of the line from Amiens to Rang-du-Fliers, 83 kilometres long, this project is being undermined by the report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board, IOC, and the Spinetta report. For the inhabitants of the Opal coast and the Picardian coast, for businesses, for the development of the tourist economy, it is nevertheless essential that the electrification already carried out between Boulogne and Rang-du-Fliers be completed. In addition, users hope to benefit from access to Roissy and the Gare de l'Est, much less crowded than the Gare du Nord, once the bar between Creil and Roissy has been created. Together with my colleagues – in particular MEPs Emmanuel Maquet and Jean-Pierre Pont – we would like to know whether the state will finally mobilize in favour of this line and whether the commitments made for the replacement of rolling stock and electrification of the line will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u65	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u66	Mr Fasquelle, we are now in Pas-de-Calais, not in Alsace! You are right: the operation of the balanced train service of the territory Paris - Amiens - Boulogne-sur-Mer encounters difficulties and the quality of the service struggles to maintain itself in the duration at an acceptable level. The causes are multiple, but mainly related to the obsolescence of rolling stock. The State has programmed the renewal of all the equipment of the link between Paris and Boulogne through the acquisition of ten Alstom Regiolis trainsets. This commitment is part of the agreement between the State and the Hauts-de-France region, chaired by Xavier Bertrand, on 16 March 2017. The agreement also provides for State financing of the renewal of the rolling stock of the other lines covered by EUR 250 million, as well as its contribution to their operating costs. This represents an exceptional investment effort for the State in the coming years. In the meantime, I can already inform you that the deployment of the ten Alstom Regiolis trainsets on the Amiens - Boulogne-sur-Mer line should take place between March and September 2019. With regard to the project to electrify the Amiens - Abbeville - Rang-du-Fliers line, the Board of Infrastructure Guidance had the opportunity to examine this operation, representing a cost of around 220 million euros, part of which is included in the contract for the State-region plan of the Hauts-de-France. The Commission considered that "an extension of the TGVs to Boulogne is now unrealistic in terms of the operating costs of this type of conventional line train." The Government has taken note of the findings of the IOC, but I would point out that these are only recommendations that do not endorse our position. The Council's recommendations are being consulted with elected officials with a view to developing the infrastructure programming component of the mobility policy bill, which will be considered by Parliament in the near future. In any event, the Ministry of Transport is aware of the importance of this line for the vitality of the territories crossed and I would like to reaffirm the Government's determination to give priority to daily transportation and the opening up of the territories. As part of the drafting of the bill, Élisabeth Borne's office is at your disposal and that of the elected representatives you represent to look closely at the issue of this infrastructure after the report is submitted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u67	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u68	Rather than flying, the President of the Republic should take the train to come to the Touquet on weekends.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u69	[[Smile]] No personal attacks!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u70	I am sure that it would become an infallible support for the renovation of rolling stock! I take note of what you are telling us, but on the part of the region, we are eager to see the State honour its commitment. I hope he will, and quickly, because we need this new material. With regard to electrification, I would like to recall that this is a commitment of the State, enshrined in the State-region plan contract; The Minister responsible for transport has announced that the commitments contained in this contract will be fulfilled. We want this electrification, because it would reduce travel times considerably. With the completion of the Creil-Roissy Railway Bar, this would also give our region access to Roissy Airport. This would benefit the development of the economy of the southern Opal Coast and the northern Picardian coast, which is mainly touristic. For us, this is a major issue – not to mention access to the Eastern Railway Station, since we know how crowded the Northern Railway Station is at the moment. We will therefore continue to fight both for new rolling stock and for electrification of this line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u71	Mr Hugues Renson, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 249, concerning the reception of deaf children in local school inclusion units in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u72	Mr. Minister of National Education, dozens of deaf children in Paris are waiting for the coming school year with great concern for the continuation of their curriculum in classical secondary education. Among these children, there is Gabriel, fifteen years old, who is present in the stands: I greet him. Gabriel has a rare genetic disease called Usher's syndrome. He suffers from a deep bilateral deafness associated with progressive visual impairment as well as a total lack of balance. His courage and efforts allowed him to pursue regular schooling, but nothing would have been possible without the ULIS, the local units of school inclusion. In high school, however, Gabriel and the many deaf Parisian children I spoke about will not have the same perspectives as hearing children. Indeed, in Paris, a deaf or hard of hearing child who wishes to continue his schooling in a general high school has very few possibilities. Only two solutions are available to him: either he joins the Morvan High School, a private contract school where all children suffer from hearing or language disorders, or he joins the Rodin High School, which does not allow for a general course, and where children with hearing limitations are forced to master sign language. Yet the inclusion of children with disabilities in ordinary settings has been enshrined as a right, both at the international and national levels. At the international level, the 1994 Salamanca Declaration urges all Governments to "adopt the principle of integrated education, by welcoming all children, including those with special educational needs, "in ordinary schools. At the national level, the Act of 11 February 2005 laid down a clear principle concerning the schooling of children with disabilities in ordinary schools: "In the education and schooling of deaf young people, the freedom of choice between bilingual communication, sign language and French language, and communication in the French language is a right. Thus, every deaf or hard of hearing child has the right to pursue his or her education in an ordinary environment like all his or her peers. Minister, is it acceptable that in 2018, a child, regardless of his or her disability, cannot continue his or her education like any other? Can you tell us what the Government intends to do to encourage the reception of deaf children who are not attending inclusive high schools in Paris, as well as throughout France?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u73	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u74	Thank you, honourable Member, for this question, which focuses on the major issues facing inclusive schools. I will answer you in several steps, in order to clearly identify the various aspects of this important question. It is all the more opportune that this week is dedicated to raising awareness of autism, as symbolizes the blue ribbon that I wear on the back of my jacket: it is an opportunity to discuss the issues related to the inclusion of all students in school. Your question, precisely, concerns one of the dimensions of inclusive school, namely the reception of students with deafness. National education has been working on this for some time, with a view to progress. Localized units for school inclusion are educational facilities for pupils with disabilities. They offer them the opportunity to pursue, in inclusion, learning tailored to their potential and needs, and enable them to acquire social and school skills. You rightly stressed the important role they play in the schooling of Gabriel and so many other children. The Committee on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities, the CDAPH, within the departmental houses for persons with disabilities, the CDMH, has the task of defining the course of training of the student in the context of his/her life project. It can decide for an orientation in ULIS in view of its academic competence, which allows the student to benefit from time of schooling in his reference class and time of grouping in ULIS with the support of the ULIS coordinator teacher. It may also decide on regular schooling with or without human accompaniment. Finally, in some situations, it offers the family schooling in a teaching unit of a specialized institution. His decision is made as closely as possible to the special educational needs of the student, regardless of his or her disability – deaf or not. In the second level, the number of ULIS increased from 1548 to 3570 between 2008 and 2016, an increase of 130%. On the occasion of the inter-ministerial committee on disability held on 20 September, the creation of 250 ULIS in high school – general and technological schools and vocational schools – was announced by 2022. This decision will certainly have a beneficial effect on the people you mentioned. The Académie de Paris, for its part, has embarked on a process of evolution: five ULIS in vocational high school will open at the beginning of 2018, in establishments that will offer a greater diversity of trainings with a better geographical distribution. To act as closely as possible to the needs of the students, we have also created the "Aide handicap école" unit, which can be reached by calling 0810555500. This cell allows us to define, with the parents, the most suitable route for their children. Finally, I stress the importance of technological developments, particularly with regard to hearing problems: we are working with researchers to ensure that students are as integrated as possible in ordinary high schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u75	Thank you, Minister. Let me remind you that the whole of the question and the answer must not exceed six minutes. We have to keep up the pace!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u76	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor to put his question, No 257, on the school map in the Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u77	Minister of National Education, my question concerns the definition of the school card, for the 2018 school year, in my constituency, the sixth in the Loire department. I do not dispute the need to split the classes of preparatory courses – CP – and elementary first-year courses – CE1 – into priority education networks – REP – and reinforced priority education networks – REP +. Fundamental learning in this cycle must be done in the best possible conditions: as such, the duplication of classes can only be successful. Teachers in schools have a fundamental role, in REP+, to avoid dropping out of school, which appears from the beginning of this cycle, because what is not acquired in CP and EC1 will be difficult thereafter. However, this delay causes dropouts, leads some young people to drop out of school, which has adverse consequences for their social and occupational integration into adulthood. But this duplication must not be done at the expense of other geographical areas. In my constituency, the student of CP of Saint-Paul-de-Vézelin, Roche, Verrières-en-Forez, Lérigneux, Dancé, Palogneux, Saint-Just-en-Bas, has the same duties but also the same rights as the student in REP +: it is equality, value that is dear to us in this Chamber, which I want to defend. One cannot sweep, with one turn of the hand, posts in rural areas, which is more of a mountain. This is what is happening in my constituency, which is 80% rural: 15 posts will be abolished, for a single creation. I would like to point out that the elected representatives of rural mountain areas have made considerable efforts over the past several years, in particular through inter-communal educational grouping. They had to standardize their schools and reorganize school transport. I was taken to the deputation by the voters of my constituency to end the sordid game of calculations, from the sterile opposition of rural France to France of the cities. We need to restore confidence in our country's education system, which faces serious challenges – but we believe that these changes will open up new opportunities for the liberation and development of individuals. I hope that the provisions contained in article 3 of the Act of 9 January 1985, known as the "Mountain Law", will be applied not only to municipalities considered as mountain communes within the meaning of this Act, but also to the Piemonte areas of the Forez and Lyonnais Mountains. The Act provides that specific arrangements for school organization must be laid down in the municipalities concerned, in particular with regard to the thresholds for opening and closing classes, with regard to mountain characteristics, school demography, isolation, conditions of access and school transport times.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u78	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u79	Mr President, the preparations for the 2018 start-up are marked by unquestionable budgetary support for the first degree. I would like to remind you of the general data for this year: 3881 jobs for teachers in schools will be created, even though there will be 32,657 fewer students in the first degree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u81	I would point out that if the demographic decline had been strictly applied, 1,438 posts would have been abolished. It is therefore a policy of unprecedented magnitude: although some, in the opposition, claim the opposite, these figures are indisputable. This budgetary effort in your constituency will translate into a better first-degree supervision rate as soon as the next school year: the number of teachers per 100 students will be 5.55 at the start of 2018, compared to 5.46 at the start of 2017. For the record, this ratio was 5.2 at the beginning of 2012. The level we will reach will thus be a historic record: we must not hide this reality, that we will have the best level of supervision at primary school that our country has ever had. This ratio of primary school supervision will be even higher in rural departments than in other departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u83	I say that in the presence of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, who has just arrived in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u85	We are working very hard together on this issue, so I cannot let it be said that we would not be paying attention to rural departments. The opposite is true: I was still in the Cantal last week to say so. There will not be a single school closure next year in the whole Auvergne region, which is very rural. Let us be very careful not to accredit false ideas. In each department, I repeat, there will be more teachers per student at the start of 2018. Specifically in the Loire department, 15 jobs will be created despite a planned decrease of 310 students. The number of teachers per 100 students in the department will thus be 5.38 at the beginning of 2018, compared to 5.33 at the beginning of 2017. To combat school difficulties, action must be taken at the root. The choice was thus made to focus efforts on priority education where the needs are greatest, by significantly reducing the number of pupils, with the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 and a target of 12 pupils per class. This ambitious measure will be fully implemented through the creation of new posts. It is not a question of abolishing jobs in rural areas to create jobs in urban areas! Furthermore, the duplication of classes in priority education networks can take place in very small towns or even in rural areas. We will not reduce replacement capacity; We are even improving them: the share of replacement posts is estimated to be 9% for next year. Finally, we have not managed to duplicate the closure of other classes. This is therefore a significant effort in favour of primary school. However, class closures are still possible: there have always been, and there will always be, because the school map must take into account demographics. These closures are decided on the basis of objective elements, shared with the elected representatives, such as the establishment of inter-communal educational groups – you mentioned this formula – the implementation of territorial projects, or the inability to maintain minimum conditions of education for pupils, when their number is too small to reach the critical mass. The Ministry of National Education has proposed to the elected representatives of the rural or mountain departments to undertake a multi-year contractual approach, with possible additional FTEs whenever one of these contracts is concluded. I have also given a mission to Senator Alain Duran to further improve the coverage of rural departments, with the objective of signing some 20 new conventions. One hundred additional jobs in the first are foreseen, in the 2018 budget, under the "rurality" conventions. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Be assured, honourable Member, of my great vigilance and support, for the efforts that will be made in your department as well as in all the rural departments, during the next re-entry as in the subsequent re-entry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u86	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to raise her question, No. 240, concerning the application of the SRU law at intercommunal level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u87	Mr Minister for Territorial Cohesion, the Act on Solidarity and Urban Renewal of 13 December 2000, known as the SRU Act, aims to restore a social balance in each territory by responding to the shortage of social housing. Article 55 of the Act obliges some municipalities to have a minimum number of social housing units, proportional to their residential stock. Pursuant to the Act of 18 January 2013, obligations for the production of social housing have been strengthened. The Act of 27 January 2017 on equality and citizenship then revised the conditions for exemption of municipalities from the SRU scheme. However, the legislative framework does not propose an apprehension of the SRU law at inter-municipal level, whereas the recent territorial reforms have prompted the municipalities to organise themselves within inter-municipalities whose competences and powers in urban planning have greatly expanded, in particular through the implementation of territorial coherence schemes or PLUI – local inter-municipal urban planning plans. In view of these developments, it would seem more appropriate to apply the obligations of the SRU law at the EPCI level, especially since within an intercommunality, some municipalities may have a social housing rate of less than 25%, while others will have a significantly higher rate. For example, within the Melun-Val-de-Seine agglomeration community, Melun has almost 45% of social housing, while Pringy has just over 10%. The latter, like so many other cities in France, is obliged, in order to comply with the law, to significantly increase its social park in the coming years. As a result, it plans to increase social housing to 21 per cent by 2020, which requires heavy investment. This rate, if it remains below the minimum rate laid down by law, demonstrates the municipality's willingness to comply with it. It is therefore necessary for the SRU law to take into account, on the one hand, the efforts made by the municipalities to bring themselves into line, and, on the other hand, the rate of social housing at inter-municipal level. Therefore, would it not be more relevant, Minister, that the minimum rate of 25 % of social housing should be assessed not at the municipal level but at the level of the EPCI, i.e. at the level of a living pool in order to better reflect the reality of supply?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u88	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u89	Madam Member, you have been asking a question that we have been asking each other for some time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u90	I guess so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u91	... and especially as far as I am concerned, I have presided over a community of agglomeration for sixteen years. That being said, I do not think that, as things stand, we can move very quickly along the path you are suggesting. You are asking whether it would not be more appropriate to apply the obligations under section 55 of the SRU law at the level of intercommunities. I recall that our urban planning system continues today to assume that the signature of the building permit is in the hands of every mayor, and I believe that the vast majority of them are attached to it. And even if we have, here too, asked the question, the current answer is to keep it. The time has not yet come – if it has to come one day as part of the territorial recompositions – to change that. I note, moreover, that since the entry into force of Article 55, the legislator, regardless of the sensitivities to power, has considered that this Article should apply at the level of the municipality, considering that it was the relevant grid to solve the issues relating to social housing. If we move directly to the intercommunal level, this could lead to a slowdown in the overall effort to produce social housing because the target rate is already reached in most of the intercommunal areas, while the needs are still there. A personal remark, beyond the elements of language prepared by my services: the size of intercommunities varies enormously in our country. Thus, you are well aware that today there are so-called "XXL" intercommunalities, which poses a real problem for the direct crossing at the intercommunal level of the obligations laid down in Article 55. We are well aware that, even within the inter-communities, some municipalities play the game completely, while others play it less, and that we must also take into account the difficulties with the application of certain laws – I am thinking of the Littoral law or the Mountain law. You are telling me the eloquent example of Melun-Val-de-Seine, who meets the 25% threshold for social housing, yet there is still a strong demand in his territory for social housing that is not met. So we often have to wait several years for social housing, which is unfortunate. However, at the current stage of reflection, the Government has considered, I repeat, that it is not yet appropriate to go along the lines you suggest. But there are ongoing developments, and I trust the local authorities. Thus, it is clear that more and more municipalities rely on their intercommunality to educate building permits. This is a positive step which is being taken in the context of cooperation between municipalities and intercommunalities. Therefore, yes, your question deserves to be asked, I have given you the state of our reflections, but I think we still need to deepen the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u92	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie spoke of her question, No 254, on the transition to organic farming.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u93	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, a comprehensive plan for the modernisation and enhancement of French agriculture will be in place by 2022. We know that our country has two challenges: getting a fairer remuneration for our producers; support the transition to sustainable agriculture by encouraging the transformation of agricultural practices and systems. Several initiatives have already been launched by the Government and the parliamentary majority, with the draft law from the General Food States being the first pillar. It will be discussed in this Chamber at the end of May. Other measures will complement it, including the implementation of the €5 billion investment plan for agriculture, the achievement of the 15% bio-efficient agricultural area target by 2022, and the implementation of the Ecophyto 2 plan – which aims to reduce the use of plant protection products by 50% by 2025. Considerations have also been given to land ownership and agricultural taxation. Finally, the renegotiation of the common agricultural policy for the post-2020 period will complement and bring our ambitions to the highest level in Europe. Such a project is ambitious. It is essential for the transformation that French agriculture needs to remain competitive. But these measures will only be effective if they succeed quickly and bring concrete solutions to French farmers. In this respect, you know that they are very much expected in Brittany. Minister, can you clarify the content and articulation of these different projects? More specifically, with regard to the €5 billion plan, the Prime Minister presented the main axes of the plan on 25 September 2017, indicating that €5 billion would be invested to accelerate the adaptation of tools and the change of practices in order to better integrate the response to climate challenges, to strengthen the competitiveness of the various sectors and to support research and innovation. How will this investment plan be broken down in detail? What will be the sources of funding, the guidelines and the timetable for implementation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u94	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u95	Madam Member, you have just indicated that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has in fact launched several projects which will be implemented throughout 2018, but also in 2019 for the construction of the land. This road map is the result of work carried out within the framework of the General Food States. With regard to agricultural taxation, I made a commitment with my colleague Bruno Le Maire to make proposals for the 2019 finance bill. To this end, a consultation was launched with eleven deputies and eleven senators from all the benches of the two hemicycles, but also with representatives of agricultural trade union organisations. They are responsible for proposing a number of measures by June this year. With regard to support for the development of organic farming, consultations will take place in the coming weeks within the framework of the Steering Committee of the Ambition Bio 2022 Plan. The action plan will be presented in mid-June and I will personally chair, in May, a major steering board of the Bio Agency. This plan will accompany the sectors in order to enable them to reach 15% of the agricultural area useful in organic farming or in the process of conversion, and thus better meet the expectations of consumers. Finally, with regard to the agricultural component of the 2018-2022 Major Investment Plan, I will have the opportunity, in the next few weeks, to specify the actions that will constitute it. Its agricultural component, I have already mentioned, is intended to be the main instrument for the transformation of the agricultural, agri-food, forest-wood, fisheries and aquaculture sectors, in response to the challenges and expectations expressed in the General Food States. It will be structured around three structural axes: the first will aim at the transformation of the agricultural and forestry upstream, and will amount to just under EUR 3 billion; the second will accompany the improvement of the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry downstream, and will amount to just over EUR 1.5 billion, with the aim of helping companies, particularly the agri-food industry, that draw up our agriculture; the third axis will support innovation and the structuring of the sectors to the tune of EUR 500 million over five years. These various tools will be implemented gradually. I'll announce the calendar in the next few days. I will conclude by recalling the work to be done on the common agricultural policy. As you know, France has an ambition on the next programming: a more readable CAP; a CAP with a very proactive budget; a CAP that preserves safety nets for our farmers through direct funding on the first pillar. In short, it must be a common agricultural policy for the competitiveness of our agricultural holdings. We will have an opportunity to return in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u96	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor to put his question, No 248, concerning the opening of an identity bar in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u97	My question is addressed to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, and I would like to associate with my colleagues in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the presidential majority and all the parliamentarians affected by a growing scourge... Lyon, Chambéry, Aix-En-Provence, Strasbourg, Marseille: these cities share the insidious rise of the ultra-right. Across the country, groups proliferate and settle in disregard of the laws and values of the Republic. After the establishment of an identity squat in Lyon in May 2017, it was in Strasbourg, in the heart of a city symbol of peace, the capital of Europe, that Arcadia was created, under the aegis of a bastion that has no social name but because it intends to assist homeless people, but only on the condition that they are, according to its expression, "white and European". The inhabitants, associations and parents of pupils in the schools in the area are afraid. Last event: on Thursday 30 March, members of the Social Bastion attacked high school students on the campus of the University of Strasbourg. On 22 January, the City Council of Strasbourg unanimously voted a motion against the presence of Arcadia on the territory of the city, with the notable exception of the National Front which abstained – proof of the collusion that remains between this party and these identity movements. Colonel Arnaud Beltrame did not look at the colour of the skin or the origin of the hostage before taking his place and giving his life for the Republic. The barbaric assassination of Mrs Mireille Knoll shows us that we must act! Like Mr Dominique de Villepin, then Minister of the Interior, who had obtained the dissolution of the Elsass Korps in 2005, is it possible to envisage such a measure in the light of the provisions of article L. 212-1 of the Code of Internal Security? What means does the Government have to combat discrimination, hatred and xenophobia that threaten public order and our republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u98	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u99	Mr President, you are calling my attention to the opening in Strasbourg of a local branch affiliated with the Social Bastion, called Arcadia. Before that, I would point out that – contrary to what had happened in Lyon, where the Social Bastion illegally squatted a building – this movement occupies its Strasbourg local in a legal way. However, our services are particularly vigilant with regard to compliance with the regulations in force, in particular those governing establishments receiving from the public. The premises of this association were thus subject, on 1 February 2018, to a check by the security commission. I reiterate that associations or de facto groups that incite hatred, discrimination or violence are the subject of special attention of my services. The President of the Republic may also proceed, by decree in the Council of Ministers, to the administrative dissolution of such associations. In view of the potential infringements of public freedoms, these administrative police measures are, of course, highly regulated. Freedom of association is one of the fundamental principles recognized by the laws of the Republic. It was enshrined by the Constitutional Council in its famous decision of 16 July 1971. In view of the worrying situation you have described, Mr. Member, be assured that I have seized the competent departments of the Ministry of the Interior. In the event that the conditions are met, the Government will indeed be able to initiate a procedure of dissolution against the Social Bastion of Strasbourg. You also stress the risk of reconstitution of associations that have been dissolved administratively. Article 431-15 of the Criminal Code provides that participation in the maintenance or reconstitution, open or disguised, of a dissolved association or group shall be punishable by three years' imprisonment and a fine of 45,000 euros. The Government strongly condemns any violation of the values and laws of the Republic and attaches great importance to the fight against extremism in all its forms, whether committed by an individual or an organization. The services of the Ministry of the Interior will therefore remain particularly vigilant with regard to the activities of the Social Bastion and its Strasbourg branch.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u100	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u101	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, we must remain vigilant on this issue, while remaining well aware of the need to respect public freedoms, including freedom of association. We must also be particularly concerned with these associations and movements, which are a factor in the breakdown of social cohesion and collective well-being which we all seek to promote. The hour shows us that the fight against the filthy beast is never over. I will therefore remain in contact with the department's departments to ensure that all their vigilance will continue with respect to such associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u102	The next speaker is Mr Yves Daniel, to put his question, No 258, on the road mortality of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u103	Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, I would like to draw your attention to road safety during school trips. With 3693 killed and 77476 injured, one third of them seriously, the 2017 figures are not good: we must redouble our efforts to make the road safer. I stop, since the situation is unbearable and requires us to find solutions, on the figures that concern our children: 108 of them, under the age of fourteen, died on our roads in 2016, nine out of a million children, while the European average is eight. Our children are primarily victims, in 55 per cent of cases, while they are passengers of vehicles but also, in 25 per cent of cases, as pedestrians. Accidents that affect them occur as part of school transportation, during the journey between home and school, at bus stops as well as in the vicinity of the school, during the hours of entry and exit. The journeys take place mostly early in the morning or late in the evening, while it is often dark. In addition, in some areas, particularly rural areas, both winter conditions and the lack of public lighting are factors that reduce the visibility of motorists. Engaged for several years on this issue, first in the Loire-Atlantique departmental council and then in the National Assembly, I tabled, on the occasion of the examination of several finance bills, amendments aimed at setting up an experiment. My proposal is simple and inexpensive: to equip all children with reflective yellow vests when they use school transportation, i.e. from their home, at the bus stop and during all their journeys between home and school. Wearing such a vest is one of the "safe gestures" that must be taught from an early age so that they are retained and reproduced: it is therefore necessary to make its wearing compulsory. Madam Minister, what is your opinion on this matter? Can we, before the next budget is examined, work together on a solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u104	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u105	Mr President, the subject you have just mentioned concerns all of us, of course. While in recent years road mortality of children has declined – by 64.6 per cent between 2000 and 2010 and by 16.9 per cent between 2010 and 2016 – 108 children have died on our roads in 2016. That's 108 too much. Almost a third of them died while they were going to school. However, if school transportation remains the safest way to get there, the vehicle's climb or descent to the stopping point can lead to risky situations. Initiatives, adapted to local situations and contexts, have also been taken to increase the visibility of students using school pick-up buses or travelling under the responsibility of teachers or referent adults. Indeed, the mobility of pupils from their homes to kindergartens and elementary schools is a safety issue, given the vulnerability of these users. For these reasons, the Government decided, at the Interministerial Committee on Road Safety of 9 January, to promote the safety of children's movements, whether as pedestrians or as cyclists, by encouraging the development of dedicated and framed routes such as pedibuses and bicycles. With regard to the experiment aimed at making the wearing of a fluo yellow safety vest mandatory for all school bus users, the Government considers that, in 2018, it may be requested to prioritise, in the framework of the departmental road safety action plans, the PDASRs, the equipment of students in high visibility vests: it seems more effective to allow the local level to analyse the situation and define the relevance of this device. We are convinced that it is through awareness-raising that we will further reduce the number of injured children. Road safety education organised at school – and from this year on, in high school – is an effective way to inform young people about basic behaviour and safety rules. The surveys show this: what he learns as a pedestrian, the child will reproduce him later as a motorist. The examination of the school certificate of road safety, the ASR, which all students pass into classes of fifth and third, includes specific questions on this topic. Awareness is ensured as part of the preparation for these examinations and, for the youngest, as part of the certificate of first road education, the APER, which is delivered to primary school. Be assured, honourable Member, that our mobilization remains complete so that no life is lost on our roads.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u106	Mr Yves Daniel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u107	Minister, thank you for your answer. I stress the importance of the accountability of all, and above all of our children. They are the first to be involved. The measure I am proposing also contributes, more generally, to road safety education, in line with the policy we want to pursue in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u108	Mr Bruno Millienne, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 242, on the responsibility of public actors in the event of natural disasters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u109	Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the Act for the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises, known as the MAPTAM Act, and the Act on the exercise of the powers of local and regional authorities in the field of GEMAPI – water management and flood prevention – which supplemented and corrected it by softening the arrangements for delegation of this competence, made it possible to fill the gaps in the flood risk prevention strategy. However, these two laws were not intended to raise the question of the responsibilities of managing and financing emergency operations during and after natural calamity. The affirmation of the GEMAPI competence breaks with a situation where flood prevention was a fragmented and optional competence. Beyond prevention and protection in the face of flood risks, however, the issue of crisis management on the ground arises. The latest climatic events, which have led to floods with sometimes devastating consequences, are indeed destined to reproduce more and more frequently. Global warming is a reality that must lead us to act upstream to prevent these natural events. In this respect, the so-called GEMAPI tax, which the municipal block can lift, will make it possible to make investments such as the construction of dikes, its product cannot be compared to an emergency fund. There are, of course, various funds and aids, but they are still insufficient and do not provide an emergency response to a crisis situation. In addition to this budgetary argument, there is a disorganisation of governance and responsibilities. Inexhaustible or weakly able to support the management of such crises, the small communities affected can sometimes remain without a solution for several months. What do you think, minister, of the opportunity to create a permanent emergency fund dedicated to this issue during the review of the next finance bill? Does it not seem necessary, moreover, to redefine the responsibilities of central, decentralized and local actors in the management of crises resulting from natural disasters? Finally, do you consider it appropriate to entrust the exercise of this competence and the arrangements for managing the financing and actions related to it to an agency or authority of the Ministry of the Interior, following the model of the FEMA – the Federal Emergency Management Agency – in the United States?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u110	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u111	Mr President, in view of the risks of flooding, you stress the positive nature of the prevention and protection aspects of the GEMAPI competence, while expressing reservations about the effectiveness of emergency response mechanisms in our country. Many mechanisms are designed to meet this need. The State services, on the occasion of the feedback organised after each significant crisis, are constantly working to improve the effectiveness of their response. The mechanisms are not concentrated within a single emergency fund, which the Government does not consider desirable, in terms of the effectiveness of the response to the disaster and of sound budgetary management. As far as governance is concerned, experience shows that the system currently organised by the law, which is tried and tested, based on the subsidiarity of means, allows for an immediate, close and proportionate response to events: it does not seem appropriate to change it. Articulated between the mayor, the prefect of department and the prefect of area, it provides, in the chain of responsibilities, a clearly defined place and role for each identified actor. The consultation between national and local actors has also led, in particular in the recent period, to a significant improvement in the tools available to us. The scheme was thus reformed in 2016 with a view to enhancing its effectiveness, responsiveness and readability. The two funds for the same needs have been merged. Solidarity funding now benefits from an appropriation of €40 million in 2018, which allows rapid state support. In the most serious cases, it is even possible to open an advance to the communities. For the insurable property of local authorities and private individuals, France has, since the law of 13 July 1982, had a system of compensation for the victims of natural disasters combining, in a kind of public-private partnership, national solidarity and insurance. Finally, during large-scale natural disasters, the poorest have access to an emergency rehousing fund and to an emergency relief fund that was activated following cyclone Irma and, more recently, in the commune of Villeneuve-Saint-Georges. I would also like to remind you that the Government is committed to simplifying the procedures. For example, the Ministry of the Interior has committed itself to improving the time taken to investigate applications for recognition of the state of natural disaster. For example, the complete dematerialization of the procedure is – thanks to the iCatNat application, which has been in progress since the beginning of the year – in the process of completion. This will provide the State and local authorities with an operational tool to monitor the investigation of cases. This application will both simplify and further speed up the processing of cases, by means of an instant transmission of applications processed at the municipal, departmental and ministerial levels.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u112	Mr Stéphane Demilly, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, raised his question, No. 261, on the issue of regulatory titles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u113	Minister, I wish once again to draw the Government's attention to the consequences of the "New Generation Prefectures" plan for our territories. By generalizing the use of tele-procedures or trusted third parties, the plan has profoundly reformed the way in which the national identity card, passport, driver's licence and grey card are issued. If I support, of course, the objective of modernising our public services, I cannot accept that this should be done at the expense of the quality of service provided to our citizens, particularly in rural areas. Among the objectives of this reform, as set out in the Government Communication, are to provide the user with "a quality service adapted to his expectations", to "ensure equal access to the public service", and this by placing the prefectures "in the future of the territories". However, Madam Minister, users waiting for a grey card or a driver's license face numerous malfunctions in the context of the implementation of the online platform of the National Secure Title Agency, the NANTs: unanswered requests, saturation of the telephone platform or delays in obtaining very long documents are part of the regular inconveniences suffered by our fellow citizens. In addition, for the past year, national identity cards can only be deposited and removed in town halls equipped with fingerprinting devices, in particular for security reasons. However, the number of municipalities approved for the issuance of identity cards is very limited and, as you know, poorly distributed geographically. This has a negative impact on equal access to this service for the greatest number, which has been denounced on many occasions. In the most beautiful department of France, the Somme – with however the Loir-et-Cher (Sourries) – out of 779 communes, only sixteen are equipped with this device. This creates an additional burden for these 16 municipalities, which, by the way, have seen their state endowments decrease sharply in recent years, while removing from the other rural municipalities a public service that was previously provided as close as possible to the citizens. Once again, rural life is penalized. Thanks to ongoing consultation and numerous interventions by local parliamentarians and elected associations, however, additional resources have been put in place and improvements have been made to this comprehensive reform in recent weeks. Unfortunately, there is still much to be done on the ground. Could you, Madam Minister, present us with an initial assessment of the reform, detail the measures envisaged in order to ensure fair compensation for our communes, as well as equal access to these services in all the territories, and finally specify the time limits within which the problems will be solved?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u114	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u115	Mr. Member, the "New Generation Prefectures" plan is designed to modernize the titling process. Citizens now have to apply for certificates – identity cards, driver's licenses, registration certificates and others – digitally, free of charge, without travel or waiting at a counter: this is, as you pointed out, a considerable progress. However, I do not deny that technical malfunctions in teleprocedures have been observed. Nevertheless, it's getting better. Improvements have been made. The problems are now solved for driving licences: more than 1 million of these titles have been issued. The situation is less satisfactory for grey cards. There have been a lot of climbs to report it to us. I myself have heard complaints in the territories about too long periods of time. To say it quickly, there were at the end of the year a lot of car purchases abroad, and the system was bogged down because of that. You're insisting on national identity card applications. To do this, users must go to a town hall equipped with a biometric station. In view of the sensitivity of the information transmitted, it is necessary for the information to pass through specially secured computer networks. Of course, not all the municipalities could be equipped – you indicated the situation in your department. Nevertheless, this year we have received new equipment to strengthen equality between the territories. Many devices for collecting fingerprints have been deployed, and the compensation of the town halls has been doubled; 528 new biometric stations were added in 2017 and 2018 to the 3526 that had been installed before the reform, in order to ensure a satisfactory level of production and ensure a sufficient territorial mesh – even though I understand that the department of the Somme, which counts, if my memory is good, 800 and a few communes, must equip itself more. For people with mobility difficulties, 100 mobile collection devices are made available to the town halls by the prefectures in order to meet the needs of the territory. Finally, with regard to the new charges for municipalities, the State has considerably increased its financial support for municipalities with a collection system, in order to compensate for the new burden of receiving users outside the municipality. This substantial effort amounted to € 21.5 million. I know the problems faced by people far from the digital system and the Internet. We strive to set up reception points with accompanying persons in public service houses, in a close relationship with the territories, to help the public make their requests for identity cards and other official documents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u116	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor to put his question, No 247, on compliance with the prohibition on the sale of alcohol.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u117	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the failure of some businesses to comply with the prohibition on the sale of alcohol after a specific hour. This is a national scourge faced by local elected officials, deconcentrated State services and law enforcement. Take the example of the city of Douai, whose mayor drafted an order prohibiting the sale of alcohol in certain shops in the city centre, except restaurants, after twenty hours. Almost four years after its publication, some traders still do not comply with the ban, and for reasons. In case of non-compliance with the municipal decree, the merchant is punished with a fine of 38 euros: given the small amount, some traders prefer to take the risk of having to pay the fine rather than that of losing customers. In addition to this form of unfair competition between those who comply with the order and those who do not, the nuisances are daily. Riverans and restaurant managers complain about inconvenience caused by alcoholics. Complaints include verbal insults, dejections on the steps, or cans thrown on the public highway. This situation is likely to degrade the city's image and undermine its attractiveness. Despite numerous calls to order and repeated financial sanctions, the municipality of Customs does not have other means within its jurisdiction to enforce the order. Even the decision to carry out an administrative closure of a trade seems very complicated, as the sub-prefect of Douai pointed out. I would also like to know by what deterrent means a mayor, such as that of Douai, can enforce this ban.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u118	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u119	Mr President, in recent years the legal provisions to regulate the night sale of alcohol and thus to prevent disturbances to public order have been considerably strengthened, while respecting the freedom of trade and industry. First of all, with regard to prevention, any person declaring the opening, transfer, translation or transfer of a supply of beverages to be consumed on the spot or of a restaurant must submit to a training obligation; It has also been valid since 2009 for any trader wishing to sell alcoholic beverages to be taken away between twenty-two hours and eight hours. These training courses, which now last 20 hours for local drinkers and restaurant owners, and seven hours for those who sell alcohol to take away at night, are provided by 117 bodies approved by the Ministry of the Interior. Absence of training is punishable by a fine of EUR 3750. The framework for the sale of alcoholic beverages also depends on the timing of the opening of these shops. In each department, the prefect sets the opening hours for drinks to be consumed on site and to be taken away. For example, in the Alpes-Maritimes, the Pyrénées-Atlantiques and Paris, the sale of alcoholic beverages to take away on the public road is prohibited beyond twenty-two hours in the first two departments and at midnight thirty in Paris. If local circumstances so require, the mayor may increase the prefect's scheduling constraint, and may also prohibit alcohol consumption on the public highway within a defined geographical area. Failure to comply with such an order is punishable under the Criminal Code by a first-class offence. This breach also constitutes a violation of the laws and regulations relating to the delivery of beverages, which allows the prefect to take an administrative closure of the establishment for a maximum period of six months, after prior warning. In the case of take-away sales establishments, and in the event that their activity causes disturbances to public order, security or tranquillity, this administrative closure may be three months. Finally, disorders caused by persons intoxicated are liable to constitute criminal offences, punishable under the conditions of ordinary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u120	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u121	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. If we want to take this problem with us, it is to bring a sense of security to our fellow citizens. It also contributes to the attractiveness of our cities; Douai is thus one of the pilot cities in terms of revitalisation of the city centres. Safety, including the absence of alcoholics on the highway, contributes to this attraction. I will relay your response at the local level, so that the mayor can act in the interest of the municipality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u122	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to put his question, No 235, on the new judicial map.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u123	Minister, since Tuesday, March 27 the lawyers of Saint-Quentin are on strike. For the past week, there has been no permanence or hearing. I join in their mobilization; I'd like to ask you about the new territorial organization of justice. The potential abolition of courts does not fail to raise serious fears among justice professionals everywhere in France, particularly among French people living in medium-sized cities and in our rural territories. The Government had recently tried to extinguish the fire by committing itself not to close any place of justice and to maintain all the courts of major jurisdiction (TGI). So, yes, the last version of your text no longer contains a hierarchy between the courts of appeal and between the courts of major jurisdiction, as originally imagined. However, your reform is hardly more reassuring, since it prefers to refer to decrees the future of certain jurisdictions and the division of powers within each department. As it stands, the text does not remove a place of justice, but the current wording of section 57 of the Justice Programming Bill merely postpones the deadline. That is why, in Saint-Quentin, the mobilization of bar professionals in favour of maintaining a court of full jurisdiction remains supported. The first reform project envisaged the creation of a single judicial tribunal, leaving Saint-Quentin, the second city of Picardie. In concrete terms, for the inhabitants of Saint-Quentinois, the city and the surrounding villages, such an evolution would remove them from their rights and force them to travel several hundred kilometres, which not all litigants, especially the poorest, would be able to do. I understand your imperative of efficiency, but the fundamental right of every citizen to access justice must not be sacrificed for budgetary reasons. The judicial reform envisaged by the Government was incomplete, since it penalized medium-sized and rural cities that were already experiencing difficulties: devitalization of the city centres, medical desertification, restricted access to public services and, perhaps soon, remoteness from the justice system. Minister, do you intend to amend section 57 of the Justice Programming Bill for 2018-2022, which, for the time being, excludes local bar associations and local elected representatives from consultation prior to the creation of specialized hubs, whose coverage is still unknown?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u124	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u125	Mr President, first of all I would like to apologize to the keeper of the seals, who asked me to replace her. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In the area of judicial organization, the Government's commitment has been clear from the outset: we will not remove any judicial sites. I'm not saying anything, ladies and gentlemen. This commitment is at the heart of the justice programming bill that will soon be submitted to Parliament. The commitment of the keeper of the seals is that of justice to the closest to the litigants, simple access and effective. The bill that will soon be before you, I said, will remove your doubts, honourable Member: all courts of major jurisdiction will be maintained as courts of full exercise. There will be no "judicial courts" or "neighbourly courts", but only courts of great jurisdiction, with their heads of jurisdiction. The draft law also provides for the merger of the courts of main instance and the courts of instance in order to improve the legibility of the judicial organization. This was necessary, because the litigant is now forced to navigate among the many jurisdictional rules of these two jurisdictions. This is not acceptable, as we are all told. This merger will be done by maintaining the proximity of justice intact. All the current establishment of the courts of appeal will be preserved – I am saying all of them, Mr. The competence of these establishments is guaranteed in the draft law. Local actors will be able to contribute to adding skills, but only add, not remove. In fact, you can see that, far from penalising medium-sized and rural cities, this reform will strengthen them. It is at the initiative of local actors that jurisdictional structures can be strengthened. It is those who live in the territories who know them best, and who can best assess the need for justice. This is indeed the ambition defended by the Government through this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u126	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u127	Justice, Madam Minister, is not within your jurisdiction, I hear you well; I would also like to thank you for having given yourself to the exercise to answer me. I am not reassured, however, since the note sent to you by the guard of the seals indicates: "local actors", without specifying whether they are elected, in particular the mayor of the city concerned and that of the surrounding communes. I know from your experience and your expertise in the Government your commitment to the territories. I also insist, on my part, on the defence of small and medium-sized towns, while reminding you of the need to involve the elected representatives, as well as the bar associations. Accuracy is important, because the expression "local actors" means everything and nothing at the same time. It is therefore important to clarify, on this point, the relevant section of the proposed programming bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u128	Mrs Michèle Tabarot has the floor to raise her question, No. 236, concerning the future of the courts of major jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u129	My question is to the Minister of Justice, the keeper of the seals; I associate the mayor of Grasse, Jérôme Viaud, and many elected representatives from the west of the Alpes-Maritimes department, as well as the Grasse Bar. It concerns the reform of the justice system and its impact on the courts of high instance, which my colleague Julien Dive has just mentioned. Since the start of the project to adapt the network of courts, legal professionals have been concerned about the possible disappearance of certain TGIs and the placement of some others under departmental coordination. The government's commitment not to remove any IMTs in France was not enough to reassure them. The mobilization was still strong last Friday, in Grasse and throughout France. The draft law on the programming of justice contains several provisions which could eventually lead to the emptying of certain courts of their substance. Thus, in departments with several TGIs, a decree would make it possible to appoint a special court to deal with all of the disputes; the Attorney General could also assign a criminal coordination role to a single public prosecutor; TGIs could be deprived of an investigating judge. If this reform is implemented, courts can therefore be deprived of a feature of pen, attributions and essential competences. However, in some departments, the maintenance of several full-service IMTs is justified without hesitation. This is the case of the TGI de Grasse, which covers a population of more than 570,000 inhabitants, 10 courts with 212 magistrates and civil servants and 618 lawyers registered at the bar. Who could understand that the nineteenth TGI of France, in terms of the volume of activity, one day loses its fullness of jurisdiction? With regard to these elements, can you tell me, Madam Minister, whether the Government will revert to these contested provisions, and indicate to me your real intentions regarding the future of the Grasse IGT, which must retain its full autonomy?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u130	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u131	Our real intentions, honourable Member, are to maintain all the courts of major jurisdiction as full courts. No "lead" High Court will be established. Thus, the Grasse High Court will retain its autonomy, with its heads of the courts. It will retain full competence and may, where appropriate, be entrusted with specialized expertise. The bill will allow the courts that wish to do so, in departments where several courts of major jurisdiction are established – as is the case with you – to designate one by decree to deal with specific disputes, whether civil or criminal. This may be an additional means of enhancing the effectiveness of first-instance justice. The heads of courts, associated with the heads of courts, will be responsible for proposing, after local consultation, the most effective organisation in order to adapt the judicial organisation to the reality of the need for justice. In criminal matters, a coordinating role may be assigned to one of the public prosecutors. This could strengthen the conduct of criminal and partnership policy in the department, but will not in any way detract from the judicial powers of other public prosecutors. As you can see, Madam Member, far from penalising the Grasse High Court, this reform will strengthen it. It is at the initiative of local actors – an expression whose meaning needs to be clarified – that the judicial structures can be strengthened in terms of competences. It is those who live in the territories who, I repeat, know them best, and who can best assess the need for justice. That is the Government's ambition through this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u132	Mrs Michèle Tabarot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u133	We are still not reassured, Madam Minister. There is still a lot of "could" in your speech. Local actors and all those responsible for justice want to participate, as soon as possible, in concrete working sessions, in order to know what will happen to TGIs in each territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u134	Mr Bernard Perrut, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised his question, No. 237, relating to the Tribunal de grande instance de Villefranche-sur-Saône.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u135	I would like to draw the attention of Mrs La Garde des Seales to the courts of full exercise, which provide an essential link between the territories, in particular the Court of Grand Instance of Villefranche, in the Rhône, in my view, threatened by the reform of the justice system. You have made a commitment that no jurisdiction will be closed, but this answer is not reassuring because it masks a danger, that of the partial transfer of powers from small and medium-sized courts to large courts; in this case, the transfer of powers from the Villefranche tribunal de grande instance to that of Lyon. Ms. La Garde des Seales' goal of simple, direct, transparent and prompt access to justice is shared in Villefranche, where decisions are rendered in a much shorter time frame than the TGI in Lyon. For divorce proceedings, for example, the waiting period for the hearing is six months in Lyon, compared to only seven weeks in Villefranche. The population is therefore very mobilized. More than a hundred mayors have already spoken, the lawyers have made serious proposals to you and the magistrates, as well as the clerks, are worried. All regret the lack of consultation and impact assessment. We reject a transfer of powers, which would lead to an increase in the length of civil and criminal proceedings and to the removal of the litigants from their judges because of difficult travels to Lyon, the risk of progress towards a virtual and dehumanised justice, and a real blow to a territory, the Rhône department, which, clearly distinct from the metropolis of Lyon, is recognized for its economic development and is in full population expansion. I would also like to know your precise commitment to the maintenance in Villefranche of the TGI in the fullness of its current competences, without transferring part of the litigation to Lyon, and for the maintenance of the attached courts – commercial court and the council of the prud'hommes – which operate with speed, efficiency and seriousness. The creation of a tribunal in the Rhône department, separate from that of the metropolis of Lyon, would be the best answer. I propose that this be a common objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u136	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u137	Before I went to this Chamber, Mr. Member of Parliament, I met with a former prosecutor from Villefranche, whom you know very well. There have always been concerns, he told me, about the future of this city's court. As I have said twice, Member, all courts of major jurisdiction will be maintained as full courts, and the Villefranche High Court will not only retain its current jurisdiction, but will gain new jurisdiction. The draft law provides for the merger of the courts of main instance and the courts of instance in order to improve the legibility of the judicial organization. All the courts of great jurisdiction today will therefore be kept – I am saying all of them, Mr. Their core competencies are guaranteed in the draft law; local actors will be able to propose changes to some of them if they wish. The courts of commerce and labour councils are full courts, which are not directly affected by the reform. With regard to the social security courts – TASS – the law on the modernization of justice of the 21st century has already provided for their transfer to a collegiate formation of courts of high instance, which will soon be designated by decree. So you really shouldn't worry, Mr. Perrut, about the Villefranche court.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u138	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u139	Your answer is reassuring if it is confirmed, minister. The draft law provides that the heads of courts, in conjunction with the heads of courts, will be responsible for proposing the most effective organization in the departments within their jurisdiction. However, you have just announced the continuation of the current jurisdiction of the Villefranche High Court, which could even acquire new jurisdiction. This means, perhaps, opening up to the recognition of this court, or in any case the need for its extension to a larger territorial scale, which could be that of the Rhône department. When we know the waiting times at the Court of Lyon, as well as your attachment to the definitions of the metropolis and the department, it would be logical for the department we are talking about to have a real court, otherwise it would be the only one in France not to have one: it would be worrying to say the least. I also stress the importance of this department and the city of Villefranche, on which, for the court, twelve gendarmerie brigades and two motorway platoons, a customs service, a prison of six hundred places and a police station depend. That is to say how much the Villefranche court has in its place. I believe you, Madam Minister, and I take your remarks today as an assurance that I will be able to announce, in my city and in my constituency: "Yes, I have heard the minister; the High Court will be kept in all its powers, and it will even be able to acquire new ones. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u140	Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor to put her question, No 259, on the judicial map in the Northern Department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u141	My question, Minister, is very similar to the previous one: I beg you to apologize in advance. You have chosen, as you have said, not to touch the judicial card, not to close any TGI or any Court of Appeal. Many of us, many of us citizens, many of the legal professionals too, can apparently be reassured on this point and thank you for it. Can you also reassure us on the issue of jurisdiction? France is complex because of its geography and demographics; From this point of view, the Northern Department is, as you know, a notable exception, with 2.6 million inhabitants, 270 kilometres of border and many industries. Above all, its people need to be reassured about the ease of access to justice, the rights of the defence and the advice of lawyers. Minister, will each IMT retain all its powers? What does "distribute litigation over the same department" mean? Will justice remain a justice of proximity for all? Can our people and our lawyers at the Valenciennes Bar feel reassured?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u142	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u143	Madam Member, on the subject of judicial organisation, the Government's commitment, I repeat, is clear: we will not remove any jurisdictional sites. This commitment is at the heart of the Justice Programming Bill, which will very soon be submitted to Parliament. The keeper of the seals is committed to justice as close as possible to the litigants, simple access, understandable and effective. The bill that will soon be before you will remove your doubts, Madam Member, at least I hope so. All courts of major jurisdiction will be maintained as full courts. The draft law also provides for the merger of the courts of main instance and the courts of appeal in order to improve the legibility of the judicial organization, which is absolutely necessary. At present, the litigant is often forced to navigate among the many jurisdictional rules of these two jurisdictions, which is not very legible and ultimately not acceptable, as confirmed by the observations on the ground. This merger will maintain intact the character of proximity to justice. All the offices of the courts of appeal will be kept – I say all of them. Their core competencies are guaranteed by the bill. Local actors, if they wish, will be able to propose changes to certain competences. In fact, far from penalizing the Department of the North, the reform strengthens the place of justice there, Member of Parliament. It is at the initiative of local actors that jurisdictional structures can be strengthened in terms of competences. Indeed, it is those who live in the territories – I have always said it and I believe it deeply – who know them best and can better assess the needs of justice. That is your concern, honourable Member, and I hope I have reassured you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u144	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u145	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Our people especially need easy access to justice – I thank you for agreeing – but also to the knowledge of the rights of the defence and the advice of lawyers. I hope that our people and our lawyers will soon feel reassured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u146	Mr Hervé Pellois, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 253, on the University of South Brittany.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u147	My question is for the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation and concerns the place of the University of South Brittany – UBS – in the ongoing university restructuring. I associate the six deputies and the three senators of the Morbihan and the community elected members of the department. The UBS was born in 1995 of the desire to offer high school students in Morbihan the opportunity to study in higher education and to develop research and innovation there. It ranks among the very first French universities for the success of students and the professional integration of its graduates. It is also the supervisory authority of several laboratories affiliated with the CNRS and hosts leading research in network with other Breton institutions. Finally, it is an economic player contributing to innovation and economic development in areas such as composite materials, cybersecurity, the sea and big data. The University of South Brittany therefore plays an essential role in our territory. It must now consider its future place in the upheavals in higher education in the coming months at the regional and interregional levels. The University of Western Brittany – UBO – in Brest, and UBS announced a strategic alliance to bring their respective policies closer together, a common response to calls for projects and the sharing of good practices. In the eyes of Morbihan's elected officials, it is important that UBS retains its identity and ability to act while developing its collaborations with partners in Brest, Rennes, Nantes and elsewhere. We must also avoid a partition of Brittany between a set centered on Rennes and Lannion and another organized around Brest, Lorient, Vannes and Pontivy. It would be regrettable to return to the system prior to 2007, the year of creation of the UEB – European University of Brittany. It is about the future of the Breton higher education system and the attractiveness of the territory. In this regard, article 28 of the draft law for a State serving a trust society should give higher education institutions more flexibility in terms of rapprochement. In view of these observations, what will be the role of UBS in the change in the higher education landscape? What opportunities will be available to institutions in project mode?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u148	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u149	As you pointed out, Mr President, the University of South Brittany is recognized for its commitment to modernising the pedagogy of its teachings. In particular, as part of the Student Plan, it planned to set up, as soon as next fall, a general tutoring among its students and to create learning collectives bringing together teachers and students. It is also recognized for research and innovation. It is therefore a university in its own right. His situation in the Brittany region must be appreciated in the light of his very close relations with the University of Western Brittany, on the one hand, and with the community of universities and institutions – COMUE – of the Université Bretagne Loire, on the other. To date, there are no plans to merge UBS with UBO. On the other hand, their respective authorities wish to establish a strategic and balanced relationship in the field of training and research. They are also working together with the National School of Engineers in Brest, ENIB, to propose an original site policy. I hope that all higher education institutions will prepare their respective projects and reflect on what I call their signature. The draft law for a state in the service of a trust society will allow them to organize themselves to support these projects, rather than to focus primarily on organizational matters. UBS and UBO already have real convergence across many research laboratories as well as the implementation of joint projects with high added value. In particular, they were awarded the "University Research Schools" and "New Studies at University" calls for projects. They also have laboratories of excellence in common and are involved in bipartite or tripartite actions such as joint doctoral contracts, co-accredited training and joint international approaches. The Government is committed to the coherence of the training and research offer in the Brittany region and will ensure that it is guaranteed. All the institutions concerned are currently members of the community of universities and institutions of the Université Bretagne Loire, which is nevertheless being reorganised in order to give each university more flexibility in the establishment of its project. This is particularly the case at the University of Rennes 1, whose authorities have shown their willingness to regain greater flexibility in their relations with the COMUE. In no way do we want a division into two competing poles of the Breton landscape of higher education and research. On the other hand, we are in favour of an evolution of the organisational model of the Université Bretagne Loire as it was thought at the time of the creation of the Interregional COMUE. UBS will play its full role in this process, which will take legal form through an order that the Government will issue if Parliament authorizes it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u150	Mr Hervé Pellois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u151	Thank you, Minister, for confirming the interest of these project territories. We believe in this, especially since the University of South Brittany is recently established and, perhaps better than other universities, has established a very concrete relationship with companies in our sector as well as with elected officials. We are very committed to ensuring that it is not encapsulated, lost in a universe too vast so that it really remains at the service of all students, especially Morbihan students who choose the area of proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u152	Mr Didier Le Gac, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 246, on employment in the shipbuilding sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u153	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Economy and Finance to the situation in the shipbuilding sector. In addition to the naval construction and repair sector, both civilian and military, which account for about 42,000 jobs in France, there are also ship-deconstruction activities which must also be addressed in order to ensure the development of a sustainable sector integrating recovery, processing and valorisation of materials from the naval sector. In this respect, it is essential to ensure the deconstruction of French vessels in the yards of the national territory and to follow a logic of proximity involving the deconstructing of vessels as close to their place of storage, without towing them over long distances or exporting them from France. Thus, in Brest, for example, two diesel submarines are waiting for their deconstruction, while the port of Brest has a construction site certified to European standards. I would also point out that France has three sites out of the eighteen approved sites in the European Union. Consideration must also be given to the international and competitive aspect of this activity. Foreign shipyards, which are sometimes simple beaches, such as in India or Bangladesh, ensure that they are dismantled far below the social and environmental standards required by the regulations in France and the European Union, despite the adoption on 15 May 2009 of the Hong Kong International Convention for the Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships. Even recently, 22 ports outside the European Union, including seven in Turkey, have applied for European approval! I would therefore like to know what measures the Government intends to take to promote French ports in the face of foreign ports in this area, as well as access to the deconstruction of military vessels, particularly in Brest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u154	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u155	Mr President, the ability of French shipyards to deconstruction ships is an environmental necessity as well as an economic issue for the shipbuilding industry. France has a long history of taking action at European and international level to ensure that as many countries as possible comply with the standards for the protection of workers and the environment in the dismantling of ships. It was involved in the elaboration of the Hong Kong Convention within the International Maritime Organization, and was the first EU Member State to ratify it on 2 July 2014. France has also supported the adoption of a European regulation on ship deconstruction, which will apply at the end of 2018. She is actively involved in the implementation of this new framework and will be present to the committee that will meet on April 18 to discuss updating the list of approved facilities. Facilities outside the European Union that have applied for the list will only be included if they meet the same standards as French installations already approved. When this regulation enters into force, France will remain attentive to its actual scope, in particular as regards the use and effects of the implementation of the European list of ship recycling facilities. These actions are essential to the competitiveness, under fair conditions, of the four sites approved to the European standards which the national territory currently counts, two of which are located in Le Havre, one in Brest and one in Bordeaux. As far as military vessels are concerned, they are deconstructed within the borders of the European Union and the European Free Trade Association, EFTA, according to a very strict – and purely French – interpretation of European Regulation 1013/ 2006 on the transfer of waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u156	Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u157	Thank you for this answer, which reassures the actors in the deconstruction industry. In particular, you recalled the need to update the list of recycling facilities and to include only sites that meet European standards. To measure this sector, I will quote only one figure: according to the NGO Shipbreaking Platform, among the 835 ocean transport vessels that were sent to demolition sites in 2017, 543 were deconstructed on beaches.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u158	Mrs Jacqueline Maquet has the floor to put her question, No 251, on the right to be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u159	Madam Secretary of State, in 2015, the Government, through an agreement between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economy and insurers, had taken a major step in the area of the right to be forgotten. Behind this concept are hundreds of thousands of people who suffer from cancer or hepatitis and who, despite their remission, still had to face the declaration of their former illness as part of the subscription to borrower insurance. Today, the deadline is ten years for adults who have not experienced relapse and five years for minors. That's good, but it's still too much. These diseases are already painful enough not to add the difficulty of building a life project. The candidate Emmanuel Macron had, in his presidential programme, wished to continue this fight against medical discrimination by setting the deadline at five years for adults, while extending the right to be forgotten to other diseases. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, confirm the Government's willingness to commit itself to the right to be forgotten, and thus ensure that the disease does not add to that of social marginalization?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u160	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u161	Madam Member, the right to be forgotten has indeed been a very important step forward in accessing borrower insurance, and therefore credit, for people whose scientific data show that they do not represent an aggravated risk. There was discrimination that was not acceptable. This right, enshrined by the legislator in January 2016 with the law of modernization of our health system, is based on the conventional process of "ensuring and borrowing with an aggravated risk in health", AERAS, which brings together associations of patients and consumers and insurance and banking professionals. The working groups, composed in particular of specialist doctors, are endeavouring to extend the scope of these provisions ever more, pathology by pathology. This substantive work makes the AERAS Convention a valuable tool, to which we are very attached. Possible legislative developments will be discussed with the Ministry of Health, since the right to be forgotten is defined in the Code of Public Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u162	Mrs Jacqueline Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u163	Madam Secretary of State, the evolution of treatment and research already makes it possible, I believe, to implement this commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u164	Mrs Valérie Rabault, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, spoke of her question, No 244, on mutual credit Arkéa.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u165	My question concerns the stability of the mutual sector, particularly in view of the recent wish expressed by Crédit Mutuel to secede from the Crédit Mutuel group. This desire for secession raises several questions. First of all, do you confirm that the Government does not intend to amend the existing law on mutual institutions? In this case, do you confirm that if Arkéa were to separate itself from the Crédit Mutuel group, its members would lose that status immediately? Did your services ensure that all Arkéa's members understood this consequence of a possible secession? This verification is essential in order to avoid any subsequent recourse to misinformation by members. Secondly, as a regulator of the French banking sector, did the Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de résolution, the ACPR, assess the credit, liquidity and rate risks that would result from Arkéa's secession? If the study had been carried out, could the Government reveal the conclusions of that study? If not, can you tell us why, and is the Government committed to achieving it? Finally, although Arkéa's relationship with the Crédit Mutuel group is a matter of private law, the CPRA is entitled to assess the evolution of banking risks – market, rate, liquidity – that could result from this separation for the French banking system as a whole, and in particular for the mutual sector. On this point, can you give us more details? My questions are very specific; I really hope the answers will be just as much.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u166	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u167	Madam Member, the Government is following closely the developments of the dispute between the National Confederation of Mutual Credit and Crédit Mutuel Arkéa, but it is not intended to arbitrate this conflict, which is a matter of strategic and commercial divergence. However, we hope that, as far as possible, this dispute will be resolved amicably, in a manner that satisfies all stakeholders, under the supervision of the bank supervisor. We note the ongoing consultation of the caisse administrators of Crédit Mutuel Arkéa on the desirability of a split. We want it to provide all the necessary guarantees of impartiality and objectivity. The directors and members of the Caisses Mutuel Arkéa must be duly informed of the consequences of a division, for members as well as for customers and savers. In particular, details should be provided on the legal arrangements for the implementation of such a development. The Government excludes any change in the legislative framework applicable to mutual groups. An amendment could weaken it, at a time when we must, on the contrary, ensure that its integrity is preserved in order to better defend its specific features at European level. Christian Noyer conducted a mediation mission, which showed that paths of evolution with a constant legislative framework existed. It is these tracks that should be considered to be pursued in a preferred manner, under the control of the CPRA. It is therefore up to stakeholders to clarify the modalities of a separation and to discuss it with the supervisory authority so that it appreciates and approves the new scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u168	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u169	I therefore understand that the Government does not intend to amend the law, and therefore, if there is a division – after a discussion that is indeed a matter of private law – the members of Arkéa will lose that status, since the new establishment will not be able to benefit from the specifics of the status of mutual establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u170	The next speaker is Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, to put his question, No 241, on the declaration of cash payments and the fight against the underground economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u171	Drug trafficking and the underground economy as a whole would account for 0.1 per cent of our GDP. Many people live there and pay their usual expenses in cash: cash payment makes possible and promotes the functioning of the underground economy; It allows us to remain anonymous and to bring into our economy illegally acquired sums. How can we better understand, in order to limit it better, the recycling of this money from the underground economy? Administrations, municipal services or social housing offices accept cash payments according to variable ceilings: for public finances, cash settlement is allowed up to 300 euros; For rents, the ceiling is set at EUR 1000 for all citizens. The law provides for two exceptions: persons who do not have a deposit account or who do not reside in France in the fiscal sense can pay all the sums due in cash. The community services of our communes are constantly confronted with people who systematically pay their rent or canteen bills or the activities of their children in cash. Could we impose on the various bodies mentioned above the systematic declaration of these regulations in cash, when they are carried out on a regular basis, to the municipal, tax and prefectural services, as well as to the police authorities? This easy and practical measure would enable the authorities to better understand and assess the importance of the underground economy, and above all to identify families who are victims of such trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u172	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u173	Mr President, the fight against the underground economy and for better detection of financial flows, in particular in connection with the financing of terrorism, is a constant concern for the public authorities. The Government's objective is to limit the flow of cash and to increase the traceability of all payments, such as prepaid cards. With regard to the estimation of the share of the underground economy, the numerous national and international studies that have been produced all face the same challenge of measuring the informal economy. Among the very variable orders of magnitude that are given, your figure of 0.1% seems to me rather low. At the end of 2015, in the dramatic context of the attacks, the Minister of Economy and Finance had taken several measures as part of the national action plan against the financing of terrorism. One of them lowered the threshold, previously set at 3000 euros, for cash payments for transactions between an individual and a professional to 1000 euros. We are thus at the forefront of this issue within the European Union. The plan also aims to reduce the anonymity of payments. To this end, it strengthens the framework for the use of prepaid cards. Thus, in the national territory, any physical payment medium fed from non traceable means of payment – cash or anonymous electronic money – must be the subject of an identity check at the first euro each time the prepaid card is reloaded. State administrations, local authorities and all persons responsible for a public service mission may already send Tracfin, the service responsible for combating illegal financial channels, suspicious information about persons or groups of persons for whom the use of cash could be linked to weak signals concerning various illicit trafficking. Communication actions on this mechanism are envisaged in order to explain the method of operation. With regard to systematic reporting on the use of cash, there are two mechanisms which inform Tracfin of such financial flows. The laws of 28 January 2013 and 26 July 2013 created an obligation for credit, payment and electronic money institutions to provide Tracfin with systematic information. With regard to transactions in the transmission of funds, since 1 October 2013, each month, the managing institutions shall send Tracfin a file listing the remittances and receipts of funds made from a cash payment or by means of electronic currencies exceeding 1000 euros or 2000 euros accumulated, per customer, over a calendar month. Since 1 January 2016, financial institutions have sent Tracfin a monthly statement of cash deposits and withdrawals of more than EUR 10000 accumulated over a month. These provisions make it possible to enrich investigations into natural and legal persons mentioned in a declaration or information of suspicion. The Government is prepared to consider the adaptation of an equivalent arrangement tracing cash payments, from a threshold to be assessed, which may apply to the settlement of rents that you address in your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u174	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u175	In the communes, we are used to seeing people paying regularly in cash. People who are trafficked pay in this form their expenses – canteens or other rents – to the municipal services. This is not about financial institutions. More simply, it would be interesting if a public institution that is paid in cash systematically by a user could report it. I would be grateful if the Government could consider this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u176	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 233, concerning the situation of the Essity France Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u177	The Swedish group Essity, formerly SCA Tissue and specialized in health and hygiene products based on cellulose, is in the process of formalising a restructuring plan abolishing 200 jobs in its two Norman companies, one of which is condemned to closure at the end of 2018. Already struck by a plan to safeguard employment in 2016 which resulted in the abolition of 200 posts, the Norman sites of Saint-Etienne-du-Rouvray and Hondouville are definitely paying the costs of the strategy of the group which recently split its activities into two distinct branches: on the one hand, SCA, Europe's first forest owner, which has focused on the production of paper pulp; On the other hand, Essity, world number two in the sector that manufactures Lotus brands, Demak'Up, Nana, as well as brand-distributive products. Essity was introduced to the stock market in 2017. The group made 215 million euros of net profit at the end of the same year and announced a return on its capital of 15% for its shareholders. Questioned by me in March 2016, regarding the first plan to safeguard employment, the Minister of the Economy, Emmanuel Macron, noted, concerning the site of Saint-Etienne-du-Rouvray, "a certain lack of willingness of the management to share information with the State services and a real lack of activity that persists on this establishment since its acquisition". He therefore concluded by stating that he had requested "a written preamble to a method agreement specifying the SCA Group's industrial policy for the next few years for French sites; industrial investments planned in particular on Norman sites and their effect on employment. » Has the Ministry of Economy been aware of such commitments and, if not, why? If he was aware of this, was the current situation already foreseeable, without any action being taken with regard to the group or for the protection of the interests of employees? What do you intend to do to ensure that Essity assumes its social and industrial responsibilities?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u178	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u179	Mr. Member of Parliament, you draw the Government's attention to the situation of employees of the Essity Group, which has announced a reorganization of part of its productive activities in the national territory. The restructuring could involve several sites in the group, in Saint-Etienne-du-Rouvray, Seine-Maritime, Hondouville, Eure, and in Kunheim, Haut-Rhin. I have asked my services to follow this file with the utmost attention. To this end, the interdepartmental delegate for corporate restructuring will receive the management of the company in the next few days. Pursuant to the Employment Security Act, the Regional Directorate for Enterprise, Competition, Consumption, Labour and Employment must be seized to approve a plan to safeguard employment (PES) negotiated between the company and the employee representative bodies. In order to do so, it must ensure that the procedure for consulting the institutions representing staff is respected and that the measures contained in the PSE are of a high quality. These measures will be the subject of a careful study, in particular the accompanying measures for employees who could not benefit from an internal reclassification within the group. I want to assure you here that the State services will remain attentive to developments in order to ensure that this operation is carried out in a responsible manner for the employees and the territories concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u180	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u181	I myself have dealt with the representatives of the Essity group, and I admit that my fears remain about the strategy of the group and its ability to honour its commitments, if any. I would also like to draw your attention, Madam Secretary of State, to the fact that the company of the Rouen-Oissel agglomeration, the one I know best, is one of the few to remain in this industrial desert which became the axis of the Seine between Rouen and Oissel, which was, in the 1970s, the flagship of the industrialisation of the Rouen-Oissel agglomeration. I hope that the Government is well aware of these challenges of industrial revitalization, especially since this perimeter is still threatened by the construction of infrastructures – in particular the bypass is Rouen – which deprive hundreds of hectares of industrial development of Seine Sud. You will admit that, in such a situation, the fears of the local elected representatives about the industrial revitalization of this major sector of the Rouenne metropolis are legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u182	Mr Michel Larive, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 230, concerning the social action expenditure of the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u183	For several years, the social welfare expenditure of the departments has been steadily increasing. The number of beneficiaries of the RSA increased by more than 30% between 2009 and 2015, while the rate of State support for this benefit rose from 90.4% in 2009 to less than 60% today. The share of social assistance for children in the budgets of the departments increases considerably with the massive influx of unaccompanied minors, the MNA. In Ariège, the amounts spent on the reception of these minors almost doubled between 2016 and 2017. The costs of supporting people with disabilities are also increasing, while the assistance of the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government – CNSA – has decreased significantly. As for the rate of coverage of the personalized autonomy allowance by CNSA, which was around 50 per cent in 2002, it is now only 35 per cent, while demographic projections indicate that the number of beneficiaries of this allowance will inevitably increase. Tax transfers to departments are insufficient to cover these expenses. Most departments have therefore undertaken to restructure and rationalize their spending, at the cost of a reduction in public services and a decline in the quality of social assistance. In view of all these factors, and bearing in mind that some departments, such as Ariège, have already made heavy budgetary efforts, why impose on departments, under penalty of financial sanctions, a maximum rate of increase of 1.2 per cent in their operating expenses?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u184	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u185	The contractual arrangements provided for in the Public Finance Programming Act 2018-2022 aim to ensure that all communities contribute to the effort to reduce public expenditure in proportion to the weight of local expenditure in all public expenditure. The requested effort amounts to €13 billion over the period 2017-2022. It is calculated in relation to the estimated trend increase in local expenditure, without proceeding – at least in 2018 – to a decrease in allocations, as confirmed by the President of the Republic on 5 September 2017. The 2018 Finance Act provides, for the first time since 2014, for the full maintenance of the overall operating allocation. The consultation between the State and the local authorities, in the framework of the national conference of the territories and its meeting in Cahors on 14 December, has made it possible to define the modalities for the control of local expenditure, now included in articles 13 and 29 of the Law on the Programming of Public Finances. Article 13 sets at 1.2% per year the national objective of maximum development of the actual operating expenditure of local authorities and their public institutions for interdepartmental cooperation with own taxation. It also provides for a national objective to improve the annual need for funding of EUR 2.6 billion each year over the period 2018-2022. Article 29 provides that communities will enter into a contract with the State on an objective of evolution of actual operating expenses as well as an objective of reducing the need for funding. Thus, pursuant to Article 29, an innovative contracting procedure is foreseen for 322 authorities – departments and regions, as well as municipalities and EPCIs whose operating expenditure in 2016 is more than EUR 60 billion – which account for two thirds of local government expenditure. In the contract between the departments and the State for the period 2018-2020, expenditure on ISAs – individual solidarity allowances, which combine the individual autonomy allowance, the disability compensation benefit, and the active solidarity income, are not included in the calculation of 1.2%. The national objective of 1.2% of actual operating expenditure – DRF – is accompanied by a possibility of modulation according to three criteria chosen by the legislator: the criterion of authorised population or housing; the average per capita income criterion; the criterion for the development of FRDs. Thus, not all departments are automatically assigned a 1.2 per cent rate of change: each individual situation is examined on a case-by-case basis at the time of discussion with the State services. With regard to the financial situation of the departments based on the latest accounting refunds available, the 2017 forecast results are as follows: the actual 2017 operating expenditure of the departments would show a decrease of 0.6%, partly due to the decline in external purchases and expenses that continues in 2017. The other expenditure items are increasing: more than 1.5% for staff costs, more than 1.5% for personal assistance and more than 2.8% for living expenses. In terms of revenue, the departments would benefit again this year from a strong momentum in the revenue of transfer fees for consideration – DMTO – up to 16.6% – but show a decrease in direct taxation by 4.7% and State assistance by 7.5%. In the end, actual operating revenues are at a level of 0.8% lower than in 2016. Gross self-financing capacity stood at EUR 8.3 billion, slightly down from 2016. With regard to the financing of ISA's expenditure, discussions are under way, in particular on the basis of the recent recommendations of the mission entrusted to Alain Richard and Dominique Bur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u186	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to put his question, No. 263, on social levies applied to French nationals abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u187	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Action and Public Accounts to a question of tax justice with regard to French nationals established outside France. Since 2012, French income from non-residents has been subject to social levies of 15.5%. However, on 26 February 2015, the Court of Justice of the European Union – the CJEU – held that these levies constituted not taxes but social contributions and therefore declared this provision not in conformity with European law. In order to comply with this decision, the French State has been returning, since 1 January 2016, the revenue from social contributions from the Old Age Solidarity Fund. Moreover, since the levying of these contributions is incompatible with the prohibition of the cumulation of social security legislation, with the free movement of workers and with the freedom of establishment, the French State was obliged to return the overpayment. However, the tax administration has reimbursed the levies unduly levied on natural persons who are members of a social security scheme in a State of the European Union or of the European Economic Area or in Switzerland. This has had the direct effect of excluding natural persons who are members of a social security scheme in a State outside the European Union from reimbursement. This geographical distinction is unfair, since taxpayers established outside the Union contribute to a social protection scheme without being able to benefit from it. This is a breach of equality, accentuated by the fact that the public authorities have circumvented the jurisprudence of the CJEU with the payment on the Old Age Solidarity Fund. Income from French-source real estate collected by non-residents should not be subject to social levies. I welcome the cancellation of the decree of 30 December 2017, which took place on 19 February 2017. However, at a time when my colleague Anne Genetet is thinking about the situation of the French abroad as part of the mission entrusted to her by the Prime Minister, I would like to know whether a more comprehensive development of the legal framework for these levies is envisaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u188	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u189	Mr El Guerrab, as he has already had the opportunity to say before the Assembly of French Foreigners, the President of the Republic hopes that, in a context marked by the increasing mobility of our compatriots, the French administrations will undertake an additional effort of simplification for French residents abroad and that certain tax and social security schemes will be carefully examined. That is why the Prime Minister entrusted Anne Genetet, MP, with a mission on all these issues. In particular, it is requested to carry out an evaluation of the compulsory levy scheme applicable to French non-resident citizens, in order to assess their level of participation in public finances and in the financing of the social protection of France, in particular by comparing with the situation of non-resident taxpayers in foreign countries. A second part of the mission should focus on the access of French non-resident citizens to social security benefits, in particular on the functioning of the Caisse des Français de l'étranger. Recommendations may be made, if necessary, to improve the quality of the services offered. In both areas, the simplification of access to and dematerialisation of services will need to be assessed and recommendations made. The mission must certainly rely on the services of the competent administrations, but it will pay particular attention to the demands of the French established outside France. Its conclusions are expected by 1 June 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u190	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u191	We are indeed eagerly awaiting the results of this mission. I am sure that my colleague Anne Genetet will carry out her work – to which we will contribute – with the utmost meticulousness, by involving all the associations representing French and French people abroad. In any case, it must really be assumed that it is abnormal for French and French foreigners to contribute without consideration to a social protection scheme from which they do not benefit; It would be legitimate to put the whole system down and "return" that money to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u192	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to put her question, No 243, on the means of local missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u193	My question is for the Minister of Labour. It concerns the future of our youth and that of local missions. Over the past few weeks, young people have been facing an unprecedented decline in their resources, which are intended to accompany young people in their integration journeys. Last June, our fellow senators, François Patriat and Jean-Claude Requier, presented a report indicating that local missions were achieving good results in the integration of young people. Yet, for the past few weeks, all over France, anxiety is rising in the face of a drastic decline in the means which does not say its name. Under the multi-annual agreement on objectives (CPO), EUR 206.5 million was allocated, apart from the youth guarantee, to local missions, which would, in theory, mean a very small increase in appropriations compared with the previous year. However, on the ground, this is not the case; the account is not there: there are funding cuts everywhere, ranging from 4 to 10 per cent depending on local missions. In addition, the specific appropriations intended to finance the allowance that a young person can receive as part of the contractualised journey towards employment and autonomy, the famous PACEA, have increased from €23 million in 2016 to €10 million in 2018, i.e. a division by two. This very sharp decline is further compounded by the funding, on the 2018 envelope, of the remainders to be paid from 2017. In view of this alarming situation, local missions, like young people, wish to know the Government's concrete intentions in order to guarantee the means necessary for the functioning of those missions, the effectiveness of which is recognized. In particular, what corrections do you intend to make as a matter of urgency so that the commitments made by the State in the framework of the CPO are actually fulfilled and that the means of accompanying our young people, in particular the CAPEA allowance, are commensurate with the needs?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u194	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u195	Mrs Pires Beaune, I am replying on behalf of my colleague, Minister of Labour, whose absence I apologize. Local missions are an important link in the public employment service, which is responsible for identifying, welcoming, guiding and accompanying young people in difficulty, especially the least qualified among them. Our priority is to give a qualification, a profession to these young people, and local missions have every place to contribute to it. As you said, the State's contribution to the financing of local missions was renewed in 2018. It is important to stress this, because not all local authorities, which also finance local missions, have done the same. The State will contribute €22.1 million to local missions in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in 2018. In addition, there is a need for a much broader view of the issue. The Skills Investment Plan was provided with EUR 15 billion on the quinquennium to train and support 1 million low-skilled young people and 1 million low-skilled long-term job seekers. This is a considerable and unprecedented effort and, of course, a significant part of the actions for young people under this plan will be implemented by local missions. This will, of course, be the case with the youth guarantee, an intensive approach to supporting employment and self-reliance. In 2018, €480 million will be spent on this project, with the prospect that 100,000 young people will be accompanied in this capacity. As part of the skills investment plan, local missions will also be able to apply, through calls for projects, for so-called "tracking" actions for young people in difficulty, to which we will spend EUR 100 million on the quinquennium. Other actions could be carried out by local missions. There is therefore no withdrawal from the State: the means are well present for young people and for those accompanying them towards qualification and employment. The central role of local missions is reaffirmed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u196	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u197	I understand – as I said myself – that, overall, credits do not decrease. However, I asked you in particular about the CAPEA, because all the local missions are alerting us about it. You did not answer the question asked, nor did the Minister of Labour on 20 March when she was questioned by my colleague Jean-Louis Bricout. Above all, it is a little easy to take refuge behind the young guarantee. It actually works very well – we are well placed to know it, since we created it – but it is not the subject; CAPEA is another mechanism. The Minister of Labour responded by referring to the fungibility of the envelopes, but it is of no use if the appropriations are not sufficient. In the absence of funding from the CAPEA, will local missions be able to benefit from an extension? These credits are essential for the future of our youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u199	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1173.u200	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Debate on the information report of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic on the application of a flat-rate fine procedure to the offence of illicit use of narcotic drugs; Debate on the establishment of a special committee to consider the proposal for a law abolishing the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. The meeting is adjourned.
