ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the second part of the 2019 Finance Bill (No. 1255, 1302).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u2	We are dealing with the examination of the appropriations relating to the "Work and employment" mission, as well as the special account "National financing for the development and modernization of apprenticeship" (No 1302, Volume III, Annex 43; No 1305, Volume III). Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u3	Mr President, the Minister for Labour, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the development of activity and employment is at the heart of the Government's and the majority's concerns. For the past year, the results have been encouraging, with a 1.2 per cent decrease in the number of registered unemployed in category A and an increase in the participation rate to 72 per cent. While the figures are sometimes capricious, the underlying trend is undeniable. Hirings of more than one month outside the acting period reached a new peak in the third quarter of 2018 with an overall increase of 2.7% and, for open-ended contracts, 2.6%. In this desire to develop employment, the appropriations of the "Work and Employment" mission are one of the elements of the strategy implemented by the Government and our majority, but they are part of an overall policy of reducing the cost of work, developing a more innovative and efficient vocational training system, and allowing companies more flexibility in their day-to-day management. It is only within this overall framework that we can understand the budgetary developments on the "Work and employment" mission, resized to take account not only of the evolution of the economic situation, but also of the reforms already undertaken, particularly with regard to labour costs. This explains the apparent decrease of €3 billion in the Mission's payment appropriations between the initial 2018 finance law and the 2019 finance bill, with commitment authorisations remaining stable. With regard to the reduction in payment appropriations, several points need to be pointed out. First of all, more than a third of the decrease – 1.1 billion euros to be precise – is a result of scope effects: this is the end of the compensation of social contribution exemptions for apprentices due to the transformation of the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – CICE – into a permanent drop in contributions, and the transfer to the national education of the contracts assisted for the support of pupils with disabilities, which will allow us to transform about 30,000 assisted jobs into permanent jobs, which we can welcome. Another cause of the decline in allocations is the decrease in the requirements for aided contracts. We fully assume this policy of refocusing aid to the non-market sector, in line with the guidelines adopted in 2018. We are also planning to finance 100,000 career paths for skills – PEC – in order to continue to help people without qualifications, disabled workers and people from the city's priority neighbourhoods. As for the EUR 83 million reduction in the subsidy granted to Pôle Emploi, it is more than largely offset by the evolution of the dynamic resources provided by UNEDIC, so that in the end, Pôle Emploi's revenues increase by EUR 20 million. Let us finally mention the end of the renewal of the recruitment bonus for SMEs, which, I would remind you, had been conceived as a transitional arrangement, applied a little before the presidential election, and which was not intended to be permanent. This represented an expenditure of EUR 1 billion, which will last in 2019. Our will, you will understand, is to spend public money better by being more effective. We are therefore investing in the accompanying devices that are working and that have proven and continue to prove their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u5	We note 50 million euros to finance 5000 additional postage aid under the IEA – integration of economic activity – totalling 920 million for 134000 postage aid, in order to achieve with the poverty plan 1.7 billion euros and 230000 postage aid, which is an unprecedented investment in this sector at the service of the most precarious. And, in order to take account of territorial specificities, these funds, as well as those intended for assisted contracts, are merged into a fund for inclusion in employment which will allow the appropriations of these two schemes to be fungible. With regard to free jobs, designed to help the inhabitants of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy – QPV – the rise of this experiment continues with 25,000 more contracts. Last but not least, the Skills Investment Plan – ICP – of which I recall that it represents almost EUR 15 billion over five years, will allow to deploy from 2019 € 3 billion on the "Work and Employment" mission, with 100,000 new entries in the youth guarantee, training courses on the sectors in tension or the support of people far from employment, including 1.3 million young people without a diploma or qualification. Apprenticeship, for its part, benefits from the new single aid, targeted at enterprises with fewer than 250 employees and some apprentices, amounting to €902 million. The scheme to support the recovery or creation of an enterprise, known as ACCRE – aid for the creation or resumption of an enterprise – and formerly reserved for the unemployed, is extended to all entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs. Finally, I mention the remarkable increase in appropriations for disabled workers, aimed at reducing the unemployment rate of persons with disabilities, twice as high as that of the total working population. The Government has embarked on a profound transformation of this policy, through a simplification of the employment obligation and a recasting of the policy of offering services. Almost 400 million euros will come from 2019 to accompany this commitment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Since the budget for the "Work and Employment" mission is an efficient budget of progress, which will make it possible to spend better, I invite you to vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u6	I call Mr Viry, the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those on our benches who consider that it is our country's responsibility to invest in public employment policies so that each of our fellow citizens can emancipate through work. Even if the country's economic situation were more prosperous and growth more generous than it is today, it would not be enough to allow women and men who are permanently away from employment to return to work. The fight against exclusion requires strong and ambitious occupational integration policies. It must be noted, however, that the funds allocated to employment policy in the 2019 Finance Bill are not up to this challenge. For the second financial year of the legislature, the budget of the "Work and employment" mission is in fact marked by a sharp contraction of payment appropriations, reaching 12.4 billion euros, i.e. 2 billion euros less than in 2018, with a comparable scope. Last week in the Committee on Social Affairs, however, I heard, Madam Minister, your intention, which I sincerely believe, to mobilise all the tools for occupational integration in order to meet the ambition of offering everyone access either to training or to employment. In this regard, I would like to highlight the effort made in favour of the structures of integration through economic activity, which I drew your attention to last year: in 2019 they will benefit from an additional 5,000 full-time equivalents – FTEs –. I regret, however, that this effort falls short of the expectations of the IAE sector, whose development potential is still wide; It also falls short of the recommendations of Mr Borello's report of January 2018, which recommended that the number of positions in this sector be increased by 20% per year. With regard to the vocational integration of young people, I have noted with satisfaction the extension of the appropriations for the youth guarantee, second chance schools or institutions for integration into employment – EPIDE. Other devices, on the other hand, undergo an unexplained contraction of their means. The fate reserved for local missions, in particular, is a real source of concern in our territories: local missions are indeed in the front line for the mobilization of the youth guarantee, and their means of accompaniment decrease by 4% in this finance bill. Such a reduction in funding is a matter of concern, as it is not always possible to do better with less in the area of occupational integration, particularly for young people. The disappearance in the 2019 finance bill of the State contribution to the operating budget of employment houses is equally regrettable, as the 100 houses spread across the territory are involved in areas that are not always covered by the public employment services. The financial disengagement of the State will therefore put these structures inexorably in difficulty. I fear that only the most affluent local and regional authorities will be able to keep employment houses on their territory, and that job seekers will not be left out of areas that have already been weakened. I now turn to the employment path, which is the theme of my budget opinion. The aided "new formula" contracts were introduced in the non-market sector, in place of the accompanying employment contracts, by a circular dated 11 January 2018. The Government's objective was to reduce the volume of contracts assisted to make them more qualitative. On the basis of the principle that no one is unemployable, the CECs aim to accompany the farthest from employment by means of training and personalized support. To ensure this objective, the requirements for employers have been strengthened. On paper, we can only subscribe to the ambition of the CECs: the triptych "accompaniment, employment, training" has already proved its worth, particularly in the IAE sector. But in practice, as designed and set up, these new contracts are far from unanimous. Madam Minister, you said before the Social Affairs Committee that the under-consumption of CEC in 2018 was linked to the strengthening of requirements for employers. I think it is mainly the result of a poor calibration of these aided contracts. Of the difficulties most often mentioned during the hearings I conducted, I will remember two. The first is the drastic reduction in the number of assisted contracts: only 100,000 job paths are financed in this PLF, compared with 170,000 last year, excluding perimeter effects. However, the number of places offered in alternative schemes such as the IAE or the Youth Guarantee has hardly increased, which means that 700,000 potential beneficiaries of PEC are likely to remain on the floor in 2019 due to the lack of available spaces. The second difficulty lies in the low level of support provided by the CEC State: whereas this rate averaged 72% in 2017, it is now 50%, or much less in some regions, since prefects are now free to define a coverage rate of between 35% and 60%. Madam Minister, in the area of employment, it is often tempting to embark on major reforms that have set the stage for the past, as you proposed with the recasting of social dialogue, vocational training and assisted jobs. But sometimes it would be enough to consolidate or adjust the existing arrangements – I am thinking, in particular, of the rate of taking charge of job paths skills – to put employment policies on a long-term basis and to offer to the actors on the ground – associations, local missions, job centres – the visibility and stability that are so lacking to them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Boris Vallaud also applauds]] That is why I have tabled several amendments to adjust the appropriations for the mission, and I sincerely hope that they will receive your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u8	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on the appropriations for the work and employment mission and the special account dedicated to modernising learning. This budget places at the heart of employment policies the priority given to those farthest from the world of work. It is fully in line with the structural changes initiated by the Labour Ordinances and the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, which has now been promulgated. The strong changes desired by the Government and adopted by the Parliament to enable as many people as possible to acquire the skills necessary to adapt to economic and social changes throughout life are thus realized. The draft finance law reflects the specific attention given to the most difficult public and territorial areas, with two main objectives: the search for a more inclusive society for persons with disabilities and the fight against inequalities in access to employment, which is part of the Government's fight against poverty. Thus, the means of access and return to employment are concentrated on the most vulnerable groups: people with disabilities, long-term job seekers, young people without qualifications, but also people living in a priority neighbourhood of the city's policy. Our group welcomes this special attention, which is necessary so that everyone can be integrated into our society and thrive on it. Indeed, we are convinced that work remains a key and essential lever for integration. First of all, the measures taken to promote the inclusion of persons with disabilities are numerous and aim on the one hand to create more employment in the adapted enterprises, with a target of 40,000 new posts by 2022 and almost 400 million credits entered in the PLF for 2019 – compared to 371 in 2018 – and on the other hand to reform in depth the conditions of access to employment for persons with disabilities, notably by promoting bridges and access to the ordinary environment, which remains our primary objective. In this way, we continue our efforts to promote the employment of persons with disabilities, which began with the adoption of the law on the freedom to choose their professional future. Measures for people away from employment are also up to the commitments. They are based on the deep conviction that it is through the acquisition of skills – whose emancipatory virtue is recognized – that access to sustainable employment can be effective. This objective is reflected in the strengthening of the training measures financed by the ICP, the experience gained in the integration structures through economic activity – 5000 open posts – and the increase in the youth guarantee, which provides for periods of activity – the objective being to support 100,000 new young people – the acquisition or re-acquisition of basic skills, thanks to second chance schools or EPIDEs – the latter benefiting from the maintenance of their credits, which will allow the creation of a new establishment in 2020 – the continuation of the experimentation of free jobs – 25,000 contracts will be financed by the end of the experiment – or "zero-unemployed territories". All these schemes will provide access to employment for those who are furthest away from it. Of course, the budget also accompanies the rise in learning, with the goal of a 5% increase in contracts signed in 2019. We look forward to this evolution, which was enshrined in the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, which our group had supported and enriched. For many young people, learning is a way of access to sustainable employment. In particular, the important resources allocated to ICP, both through budgetary allocations and through competition funds financed by corporate contributions, should be noted. These means will not only fund additional training and personalized courses of access to qualification, but also develop a more efficient and agile training engineering to respond to the challenges of identifying the public and their support. Without significantly changing the amount of aid allocated to lower labour costs, the draft law takes note of their evolution, with the introduction of the single aid for apprenticeship. The State also continues to assist SMEs and SMEs in coping with short-term difficulties, such as taking up part-time unemployment, hiring aid or business start-up aid. In committee, our group asked you, Madam Minister, to take stock of the investment made in the appropriations for social dialogue and social democracy, which have been substantially reduced. We were pleased to learn that since the issuance of the ordinances, 364 agreements have been concluded in companies with fewer than 20 employees and that 96 of the 100 observatories planned have been established. Furthermore, the adjustment of the 2019 intervention appropriations is adapted to the reimbursements of the costs related to the activity of trade union defenders found in 2018...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u10	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u11	... and the resources allocated to trade unions and employers' organisations financed by the AGFPN – the management association of the national joint fund – are on the increase; The Fund for the financing of social dialogue is financed by a compulsory contribution from enterprises of 0.016% of the wage bill. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, REM and LT groups]] Our group welcomes this ambitious budget and offers hope for the employment of the people who are now the furthest away from it. We will therefore vote for the appropriations of the "Work and Employment" mission, as well as for the special account to finance the development and modernisation of learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u12	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u13	Madam Minister, you have been in charge of employment policy for 18 months and, despite your exhortation to "trust", you cannot say that you have given us many reasons for hope. It is not the heavy eyelids but, on the contrary, the open eyes that we consider the situation, starting with the employment figures, which give the impression that your reforms are a little futile and that you have lowered your guard. It is not because the Government never talks about it that the French do not always think about it. Unemployment figures are not good: there have been 22000 more unemployed, all categories, for the past year. Perhaps this has to do with the huge social plan brought about by the elimination of 250,000 assisted jobs. Your ideological blindness has made you prefer real unemployed people to what you mistakenly hold for "false" jobs. Supported jobs are lacking in national education, in EHPAD – housing institutions for dependent elderly people – and, even more cruelly, in associations, which have lost 40 000 jobs by your choice and the equivalent of 1 billion euros of subsidies. For any answer to our inquiries, you have asked us to hope for the new career path skills. Today, however, it must be noted that this is a failure. Just over half of the routes were prescribed in 2018, and you only expect 100,000 additional contracts in 2019, while a year ago you mentioned the figure of 200000. This failure was foreseeable: the rate of government support is too low, the obligation to train is not funded and you have lost the confidence of many employers, who fear a new turnaround on your part. By quickly reforming the aided contracts, you claimed that you wanted to focus on qualitative rather than quantitative. Finally, we have neither, and your focus on the priority audiences actually reveals your aspiration for a minimum social state. We should have supported with the same fervour the frank jobs which, in the same way, are struggling to start. We could have hoped that your 2019 budget would take into account the call to order that the facts impose on you, but that is not the case. After a reduction of EUR 1.5 billion in 2018, the budget allocated to employment policies in 2019 will be, at constant scope, down by more than EUR 2 billion. This reduction in budgets is first of all a hard hit on employment operators, despite the priority that you claim to give to the support of job seekers. Pôle emploi, a major player if any, will lose 800 jobs in 2019, after the abolition of 600 jobs and 1300 contracts assisted in 2018. Your own ministry makes 239 positions. Local missions, for their part, will see their grant cut by more than €8 million, while the Government wishes to increase the number of young guarantees fivefold.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u15	Allow me, as an incident, to note that the 2019 budget does not reflect the ambition shown, since you are planning 100,000 entries as a young guarantee, as in 2018. Like our draftsman, whose quality of work I welcome, I regret this 4% reduction in appropriations, although local missions are a key player in supporting young people on the ground. Similarly, I regret the Government's relative indifference to the fate of AFPA, the Agency for Adult Vocational Training, which will lose many agents and close a large number of sites. What will these employees become, Madam Minister? Will they benefit from actions in favour of the reclassification of employees, such as the CSP – a contract for professional security – or the partial activity, whose budgets will fall in 2019? We can doubt that. This budget reduction, as I mentioned, is achieved by the abolition of 100,000 aided contracts. Reducing the number of jobs in the labour market leads to a reduction in the number of people in employment. This disengagement of the State also manifests itself towards policies that the Government claims to support. Thus, budget cuts take place here and there, the meaning of which is sometimes difficult to understand: a reduction in aid for collective bargaining, a reduction in the resources allocated to trade union advocates, even a reduction in the resources allocated to the development of the CPF – a personal training account. It is true, since I refer to training, which is difficult to measure in your budget, the reality of the promised effort, since there is only EUR 1 billion in appropriations. If you are announcing a competition fund for companies, it is good that you finance the training of jobseekers through a levy on employee training credits, and that these are not additional credits. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2018 we denounced the idea that the economic situation alone would make it possible to reintegrate the 2.5 million people currently excluded from the labour market into employment. As we feared, the first to have been affected by the crisis will be the last to benefit from the recovery, and to what reasonable offer of mini-jobs will they have to consent to, what work that pays badly? The taxation of short contracts is delayed and the recast of "permissibility" worries, because there are words, often just, and acts, sometimes false...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u16	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u17	[[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] ... such as proclaiming the will to make the CDI the norm and, at the same time, creating five-, ten- or fifteen-year-old CDS in the public service, and making it the heart of its renovation. The reform of unemployment insurance, of which you expect nearly €4 billion in savings, such as the introduction of the Universal Conditional Activity Allowance, continue your work of questioning the 1945 compromise and take the slope of a hard workfare. We will oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u18	The next speaker is Francis Vercamer, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u19	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, does the budget for the work and employment mission sufficiently promote the return to employment of those who are furthest away from it? It is by following this red line that the IDU Group, Action and Independents, has analysed, Madam Minister, your draft budget. It must be noted that we do not think it is up to this issue. But accompanying the most fragile towards employment is the very essence of this budget, the objective which should justify its articulation and logic. I will not go back to the significant decrease in the Mission's appropriations, even though the Government asserts that employment is its priority. You confirm, with the budgetary guidelines of this mission, the decrease in the number of contracts assisted. The alternative to aided contracts, however, is not enough to take on the job skills. As our draftsman points out in his report, many employers are reluctant to engage in this scheme. For the time being, these courses do not meet the demand for employment of persons who were in receipt of assisted contracts or who could have been integrated into the scheme. It is not a question of saying that aided contracts are the panacea: we all know their limitations. But where it is most difficult to find a job, in the fragile territories of the city's political districts and rural territories, where economic activity is insufficient, the aided contracts were a first step. The alternative to these contracts is insufficient and still to be developed. It is in this spirit that we encourage the acceleration of two experiments: free jobs and the scheme for the long-term unemployed. Franchise jobs, implemented in the priority districts of the city's policy, demonstrate the effectiveness of a clear and simple aid to enterprises, supported by the involvement of local elected officials. Thus, within the European metropolis of Lille, 1000 hires in free jobs were quickly carried out. The so-called "long-term unemployment zero-territories" also has an encouraging development – a film on this subject was shown a few days ago in the National Assembly. However, many territories, beyond the ten involved in the ongoing experiment, are candidates for this scheme. A second wave of experimentation must be possible without waiting for the evaluation in 2020 of the current scheme, in order to meet the high demand for employment of the most vulnerable. That is why we will propose an amendment initiating some of the funds needed for this second experiment. It is essential to speed up experiments and develop innovations in order to boost employment policy. Otherwise, the feeling of inequality of those who will not benefit from growth in 2019 would only be stronger, with an increased risk of social tensions, minister. However, in order to accelerate the implementation of these innovations, it is also necessary to create a climate of trust between employment partners, particularly at local level. We regret that this budget is the first to no longer fund employment houses – MDE. This choice penalises, on the one hand, the territories most affected by unemployment and deindustrialisation and, on the other hand, the less wealthy municipalities, which will have the greatest difficulty in providing for the financing of the MDEs alone. In addition, the example of EDMs does not bode well for the perception of experimentation aimed at involving more in voluntary territories Pôle Emploi and local missions. For our group, it is not a matter of rejecting from the outset any prospect of experimentation in order to gain efficiency. However, at a time when this budget confirms the abolition of 800 posts at Pôle Emploi, local actors have the impression that the State is mainly transferring charges to the local missions and the municipalities that finance them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u20	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u21	We therefore agree with you that experimentation should be given a chance, but based on the expertise of local employment support structures, their autonomy and the experience of local elected officials in their governance. Finally, the employment of older people remains marked by an insufficient employment rate for the 50-54 age group, as well as by significant regional disparities, as evidenced, for example, by the situation of the Hauts-de-Frances. On this subject too, innovation and experimentation are undoubtedly necessary. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] To ensure a faster rise in the number of schemes and experiments, to build confidence among the actors involved in employment: these are the imperatives that our group would have liked to see more concrete in this budget. A just and supportive society must ensure that no one is left at the edge of the road. Unfortunately, our group does not believe that your employment policy has been able to meet this challenge for the time being. We regret that, because if there is a budget on which we could agree with you, that is the one. For all the reasons I have stated, we will oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u22	Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u23	Hello! "When I went to Lidl's warehouse, there were already firefighters. The guard came to me crying, and we didn't need to talk to each other, we understood each other. My brother hanged himself in the cold room, with locks. A year ago now, day to day, I met Nicolas Sansonetti, Yannick's brother. I was accompanying a football friend, David, former director of Lidl de Longuau, to a lawyer. It is with her, with them, that we have imagined a "Lidl law", a law on mental disorders related to work, or, more commonly, less medical, on burn-out; a law that punishes, penalises employers who make mental wear and tear a managerial strategy. A law, while this evil seems endemic – there are hundreds of thousands of cases each year. I presented my report in this House last February, and I very much regretted your absence, Madam Minister. Why? Because you are personally committed to this topic. Because, again, Danone's HRD, you issued a report to the Prime Minister entitled "Well-being and effectiveness at work." Because your first proposal read as follows: "The involvement of the Directorate General and its Board of Directors is indispensable. " Because, as a result, I had a question: what to do if management is not involved? What if, on the contrary, it opposes any measure? What if, as at Lidl, but also at La Poste, at the Savings Bank, at Coriolis Telecom, but also in hospitals, in the police, in EHPADs, companies function as a "silent shredder"? When they prefer profit over life? I am asking you this question today, Mrs Pénicaud. At the time, I was given an answer: "The Lecoq report"! It was a festival in this Chamber. I felt like I was attending a parrot concert. Minister Christophe Castaner, who was sitting on your bench, the conductor therefore, revealed the good news, I quote: "[Ministers] have decided to launch a global reflection on occupational health. This mission, as you know, has been entrusted to your colleague Charlotte Lecocq." Gabriel Attal followed suit: "Our colleague Charlotte Lecoq was assigned [...] to make proposals, not in years or months, but in a few weeks. Caroline Janvier, Member of Parliament for the Republic in March, drew inspiration from the same source: "The Minister of Labour entrusted our colleague Charlotte Lecoq with a mission of reflection on occupational health, the conclusions of which will inform the debate." Guillaume Chiche, in turn, shone with his originality: "Our colleague Charlotte Lecocq was entrusted [...] with a parliamentary mission on the issue of occupational health. And he made himself more specific about the deadline: "She will deliver her findings on April 30." The elements of language, as much as to do, share them, pass them on, copy them, spread them. But what a publicity, all the same! What a suspense! It made us hungry. The great work was going to upset all our minds. I was almost ashamed of myself with my little bill, so narrow, so petty. How dared I bring this subject, when "our colleague Charlotte Lecoq" and the Government took care of everything for us? I blame myself. I felt like a "bad demago." Full of hope, I therefore expected the Lecocq report. And we waited a long time. Nothing in April, nothing in May, nothing in June, nothing in July. At the end of the summer, at last, it seemed. But with what, in it? The big emptiness. In 174 pages, the "burn-out" is mentioned only once. Our colleague called for "supporting companies", "awareness-raising". But above all not to regulate, and even less to punish. As a result, the Government commissioned a new "reflective mission". You're thinking a lot. It's beautiful. That's noble. In order to remove the tax on wealth, to limit the compensation to the workers, to put an end to the health, safety and working conditions committees, you have, however, given much less thought. You've cut it off. Direct. Very quickly. As soon as you get to business. We were, however, announced this spring a bill on occupational health. I have asked the House for a programme: this document bears the word 'confidential', but I can say that I do not see anything on the agenda, except constitutional review, multi-annual energy programming, bioethics, pensions, local tax reform, mobility or public broadcasting. I don't see health at work, minister: Could you give us more details on the schedule? In the meantime, while still waiting, what do we have in practice, now, in your budget? Dismantling of posts. The abolition of posts in the National Agency for the Improvement of Working Conditions and the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour. In the meantime, life continues for David and Nicolas. Nicolas waits, waits, waits for the investigation to proceed, after filing a complaint for manslaughter. My boyfriend David, broken by the job he loved, claims recognition for his occupational illness. And he waits, he waits, he waits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u24	Mr Gérard Cherpion, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u25	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank our colleague Stéphane Viry for his opinion on a subject which should make a consensus, the reintegration of people furthest from employment, which is one of the missions of the AFPA. It should be possible to better train these people to reintegrate them more quickly. How, Madam Minister, can you present a budget for the "Work and Employment" mission for 2019 that is so insinuating, as growth slows and the number of job seekers continues to rise, with 6.6 million people registered at the Employment Centre, including 3.5 million in category A, i.e. without any activity? I must point out that other European countries have full employment: in Germany the unemployment rate is only 3.4%, i.e. 1.5 million jobseekers, in Hungary it is 3.7%, 3.9% in the Netherlands and 4.1% in the United Kingdom. Your budget is down 3 billion euros compared to 2018, which is 19%. The time allocated to me is insufficient to deal with all the questions posed by this budget: the fate of employment houses, despite an amendment tabled overnight which should improve somewhat their situation, the future of local missions for the occupational and social integration of young people, whose budget is declining, or the number of contracts assisted, which is in contradiction with the poverty plan. I will focus on three specific points: France Skills, Pôle Emploi and AFPA. France skills shows your determination to nationalize training. Thus, while it is not yet created, the number of FTEs in the establishment is already increasing from forty-four to seventy: the administrative and bureaucratic machine is running. However, Madam Minister, during the debates, you had responded to my concerns by saying: "Mr. Cherpion, to answer [your] question [...], we will discuss with the regions and the social partners in order to determine, before drafting the decree provided for in paragraph 60, the composition of the board of directors and how it operates. What I can already tell you to reassure you is that there will not be the absolute stateism that you seem to fear: the state will not have an absolute majority on the board of directors, I commit myself to it. " Thus, according to my contacts with the regions and the social partners, they were not consulted before the drafting of this decree. You have thus failed in your word. "Inseverity," I said. Indeed, the composition of France's competences, according to the decree presented today to the Conseil national de l'emploi, de la formation et de l'orientation professionnels, probably rejected as the one concerning apprenticeship, gives fifty-five votes out of a hundred ten to the State. But, Minister, you can reject the decisions of the board of directors. It is stateism that is on the move, and living quadripartiteism! As for the role of the board of directors, the decree provides that "it may be informed of certain borrowings. " Does transparency scare you? Finally, France, which does not exist to date and therefore does not have a board of directors, has already decided to pay EUR 1.5 billion to replace the State's disengagement. You thus confirm, under a false guarantee of quadripartiteism, that France skills is a mere operator in the hands of the Government. The Pôle Emploi budget is down by 85 million euros, after a reduction of 50 million in 2018, with the results we all know and regret about unemployment. At the same time, you are giving new tasks to Pôle Emploi: reinforced support, increased powers in the area of sanctions, administrative penalties, recovery of benefits, etc. Errors in calculating benefits amounted to EUR 1 million in the first half of this year; Overpayments amounted to EUR 1 billion, an increase of 36%, and the operator's caisses suffered a loss of EUR 400 million. It is not by reducing the human and financial resources of Pôle emploi and increasing the expenses of the advisers – seventy additional files for each of them with the poverty plan – that the situation of job seekers will improve. Moving from an insurance system to a system of national solidarity, you charge all, and especially pensioners, part of the unemployment benefits of the employees and you definitely break the management paritarianism to replace it with a paritarianism that is only an alibi and a surety. This disengagement from the state is paradoxical, even schizophrenic, and is summed up in one sentence: "To me the power and to you the responsibility for the results". [[MM. Alain Ramadier and Boris Vallaud applaud]] Finally, let me address the issue of the AFPA. We have denounced the transformation of this association into a public institution of the State, which would not change its financial and social situation, and we regret it for the employees. You are now imposing a social plan on the AFPA of nearly 2000 redundancies in two years, which, not only will not solve the financial imbalance, but will increase the accumulated debt, already exceeding 700 million euros. The insidious figures in the budget blue are contradicted by the announcements made to the central works council and the board of directors of the AFPA. I will return to the matter, Madam Minister, when I consider the amendments, since I will propose that you produce a report on the financial and social situation of the AFPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u26	Mrs Sylvia Pinel, for the Libertés et Territoires Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u27	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Special Rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if the Government continues to insist that it throws all its forces into the battle for employment, the unemployment rate remains dramatically high in France: 9.3% of unemployed people, 1 million poor workers, 23% of unemployed young people under the age of 25 – with a rate that flies to 45% in the priority areas of city policy – and 2 million young people without a diploma. This serious situation, which seems to have settled for a long time, cannot satisfy anyone. Behind these figures, let us not forget that there are faces, those of women and men whose lives stop when they lose their jobs, because they can no longer pay their credit, their families explode or they despair that a second chance will be given to them. Behind these figures is the demand for social cohesion to which our group is viscerally attached. It was therefore absolutely essential for us that the "Work and Employment" mission reflect a strong mobilization of all actors to reduce unemployment, which is the first of the inequalities. It must be noted, however, that this is not the case. On behalf of my group, I would like to share with you a simple conviction: we are confident that tomorrow's jobs will largely be created in our territories and in our territories. Because our territories are rich in ambition, courage and know-how, be they industrial, agricultural or artisanal. They are full of intelligences and talents that, despite the obstacles, undertake, innovate and succeed. In addition, they play a key role in accessing and returning to employment through their local work in favour of the most disadvantaged unemployed, their knowledge of local economic needs and their ability to unite all actors in an employment pool. But your budgetary choices go to the exact opposite of that conviction that we are defending. First of all, because the Mission's appropriations fall by EUR 2 billion, which may seem paradoxical, since you are presenting the fight against unemployment as your priority – I do not go back to what has been said about the aided contracts. Secondly, because these choices reflect a form of mistrust of local actors. As proof, I am concerned about the future of employment houses, which you are unable to dispel, as my colleague Jeanine Dubie asked you on this subject in committee. The mutualisation, through an experiment, which could be a first step towards absorption by Employment Pole, is a fault: we need these actors on the ground who are directly involved with local realities and who carry out a work indispensable for the return to employment of young people. We are also concerned about the removal of 1000 to 1500 FTEs from the AFPA, which could result in the closure of 38 of the 206 existing sites, in rural areas that are already penalized by your reform on vocational training, with the training centres for apprentices being understaffed. This is a double penalty for these territories for which access to apprenticeship and vocational training will be increasingly difficult. Finally, as we look at this finance bill, we see many proximity arrangements disappearing or undergoing profound upheavals. This is the case with chambers of commerce and industry, the intervention fund for services, crafts and commerce, FISAC, and rural contracts, which are nevertheless essential for revitalising the city centres and stimulating economic activity in rural areas. However, our group would like to welcome two advances: firstly, we welcome the fact that €400 million is planned in 2019 to achieve the goal of supporting the inclusion of an additional 40,000 people with disabilities by 2022. This effort demonstrates a willingness to gradually remove barriers to the professional achievement of persons with disabilities, and we will support you in this direction whenever you take it. Secondly, the attention paid to improving working conditions, translated into programme 111, can only support our concerns. [[Boris Vallaud applauds]] However, Madam Minister, these advances are not enough to make people forget that your choices are not up to the challenges of employment, which is a top priority for the French. So our group will not vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u29	Mrs Fadila Khattabi, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget for employment and vocational training is continuing the transformation effort which has been under way for almost a year and a half in terms of employment, vocational training and apprenticeship. I would like to stress that this is a responsible and ambitious budget, which perfectly illustrates the commitments made by the President of the Republic, as reflected in the various actions of the Government in favour of sustainable employment. The current figures are encouraging, with a significant fall in unemployment in the last 12 months and a 10% increase in the number of permanent jobs in one year, a new development which deserves to be stressed. However, we must continue the fight against mass unemployment, which I would like to remind you of the fact that it undermines the cohesion of our society. As a result, the draft budget musiced the law for freedom to choose one's professional future, which we voted for last summer. This reflects a strong and committed political will to put individuals and businesses at the centre of the system, notably through the establishment of the personal training account in euros and the skills investment plan, with a budget of EUR 15 billion over five years. Yes, we, members of the majority group, welcome the political and strategic choices made in the draft budget! This one – it must be said – is in favour of the most fragile: people with little or no qualifications. Yes, the massive and never equal investment in human resources, in employment and especially in skills and in the integration of vulnerable people is a perfect example of our social policy! To our colleagues who say, on some grounds, that these are mere declarations of intent, I reply that they are indeed concrete and courageous actions. Indeed, out of the $15 billion envisaged under the ICP, which aims to train one million low-skilled jobseekers and one million young dropouts during the quinquennium, $3 billion is being set aside in the draft budget for 2019, which can only be welcomed. In the same context, thanks to the "100% inclusion" scheme – whose first winners of the call for projects have just been nominated – €200 million will be dedicated exclusively throughout the quinquennium to the financing of projects dedicated to the farthest public from employment. In addition, in line with the poverty plan, the draft budget for 2019 will allow an additional 10,000 people to benefit from integration through economic activity. In addition, the draft budget strengthens inclusive employment by allowing 10,000 people with additional disabilities to be employed in suitable enterprises. In the case of aided contracts, the draft budget provides for the financing of 100,000 new contracts, concentrated in the non-market sector, to which must be added the contracts prescribed in the framework of the accompaniment of pupils with disabilities, the number of which in 2018 amounted to 45,000. Of course, they will be renewed and now funded by the Ministry of National Education. Moreover, the schemes giving excellent results are renewed or improved, in particular the youth guarantee, which will be generalized to the benefit of 100,000 beneficiaries, as well as the second chance schools, which will benefit from 12,000 registered places. In addition, the draft budget supports innovative experiments, in particular the "long-term unemployment zero-territories" scheme, which will benefit from €22 million of appropriations, as well as frank jobs. The draft budget for 2019 takes into account the socio-economic realities of the territories as well as the needs of enterprises, in particular thanks to the multi-annual pacts to be signed with the regions within the framework of ICP. In the light of these observations, my conclusion is unequivocal: the draft budget is well in line with the employment policy advocated by the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u31	On this point, we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u32	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is intended to serve structural and relevant reforms, for the benefit of the territories and the citizens! There are therefore no envisaged savings, but an ambitious deployment of the means for the most vulnerable and far from employment. That is the strength of our commitment! That is why the Republic on the move group will vote for the mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u33	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam and Mr rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, after the budget cuts made last year, the budget for the "Work and Employment" mission which we are looking at today shows the largest decrease in appropriations, both in volume and in percentage, of all budgetary missions. Without perimeter effects, it decreases by more than 2 billion euros in 2019. This overall decline in resources is reflected in the various programmes and leads to a very negative assessment of this draft budget. Firstly, the draft budget before us leads to the weakening of the public employment service. In 2019, the operating grant for Pôle Emploi was planed at €85 million. However, unemployment does not fall back. The workload of the Pôle Emploi advisors is already high: each of them has to follow a portfolio ranging from 200 to 800 job seekers according to the accompanying arrangements and the territories. In these circumstances, how can we guarantee quality accompaniment? The allocation to local missions for youth support is reduced by 4 per cent. While President Macron announced on Tuesday that he intends to reopen public services in working-class neighbourhoods, these figures show, on the contrary, the weakening of the public employment service. Secondly, the draft budget helps to weaken public and association support policies. It confirms the division by two of the number of assisted contracts, which are transformed into career paths. In 2019, 100,000 contracts were budgeted. A study by the Directorate of Research, Studies and Statistics Animation – DARES – shows that your policy has led to a 41% decrease in the number of assisted contracts between mid-2017 and mid-2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u35	Delicious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u36	This brutal decision, taken as soon as you took office, has helped to undermine many structures of the community in the fields of education, social action, sport and culture. We note the creation of 25,000 free jobs in priority neighbourhoods, the opening of 5,000 jobs in the sector of integration through economic activity and the sustainability of the funds allocated to the youth guarantee. These measures are useful but remain very inadequate given the employment situation – especially of young people – in our country. In the absence of the necessary resources, you are re-focusing funding on the support of an ever smaller number of people, Madam Minister. We cannot subscribe to such a project, which is to redeploy a system of assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u37	What should we not hear?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u38	Finally, the draft budget leads to a reduction in the number of staff dedicated to labour and training policy. The Ministry of Labour and its deconcentrated services will lose 239 positions in 2019, the same level of abolition as last year. In doing so, you weaken the labour inspectorate and prevent its agents from performing their monitoring duties properly on the ground, even though labour orders have made social standards more complex. Beyond the administration, you plan to abolish 1,485 posts, 800 of which are within the Employment Department, weakening this public system a little more. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] These few observations – I could add many more – illustrate the reasons that will lead us to clearly oppose your draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u39	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u40	Mr President, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, it is with pleasure that I find you here, in the context of the examination and vote of the appropriations of the budget mission "Work and employment" of the finance bill for 2019. I will not be able to answer all the questions you have asked, but we will have the opportunity to raise the issues raised during the discussion of the amendments. I would first like to clarify the meaning of the priorities I have set out in the draft budget. During its examination in committee, I indicated that it must accompany the profound transformation of the employment and vocational training policies that I undertook upon taking up my duties, in addition to the ordinances for the strengthening of social dialogue. In passing, I would point out to Mr Ruffin that the subject he has mentioned is part of the scope of the consultation which is taking place with the social partners. I respect too much the social dialogue to preempt the subject before it has taken place. However, I confirm that in 2019 I will be introducing an occupational health bill. With regard to the structural reforms that we have undertaken, we have made a clear choice from the outset: to refuse any statistical treatment of unemployment and not to pretend, but to carry out substantive reforms that will make it possible to improve the employment situation in a sustainable manner and to reduce mass unemployment. Over the past year, there have been 244000 net job creations. The unemployment rate rose from 9.7% to 9.1%. Of course, it's still way too much; But we cannot, in just one year, remedy 20 years of employment policies that have not led to a reduction in mass unemployment. Structural reforms must therefore be pursued and translated into the budget. That is how we will succeed in the years to come. After the publication of the ordinances on the strengthening of social dialogue and the adoption of the law of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future, this year we focused on the plan of investment in skills. Already, €1.5 billion has been committed in 2018 to support young people and long-term job seekers towards the jobs in tension, skills and job opportunities to which they do not have access. In fact, companies are looking for certain skills and long-term job seekers and young people are not entering the labour market because they do not have them. In 2018, we launched a renewed approach to employment inclusion policy – through the skills employment pathways, which have already led to the qualitative improvement that we hoped for – a responsible approach, too, because it is based on training and support and not simply on temporary jobs that, after a few months, return their incumbents to precariousness and unemployment. In addition, on 12 July I signed an agreement with the adapted companies, which will allow an additional 40,000 people with disabilities to access this springboard towards employment by 2020. Finally, the AFPA's transformation project, announced a few weeks ago, will save her from the slow death that has plagued her for about fifteen years. We believe it is necessary for the Agency to be strong and focused on missions of general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u41	To us, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u42	We will support this development. With regard to 2019, the budget for the work and employment mission, with a comparable scope, is EUR 12 billion, two less than in 2018, which is in no way an obstacle to the national strategy of skills and inclusion in employment reflected in this budget. This decrease is due to the completion of the expiry of the one-time aid schemes for TPEs and SMEs, which were abolished by the previous government, as well as to the chosen volume reduction of the aided contracts, amounting to EUR 1 billion. In short, we are adjusting the budget for 2019 to the size of what local authorities and associations are able to do, in a qualitative way. This year they have shown that they do not use all the funds allocated because they are unable to offer job seekers quality support. The budget proposal pursues an stated objective: to work as a matter of priority on the national skills strategy and inclusion in employment, in line with the plan to combat poverty presented by the President of the Republic on 13 September. It is by constantly going to the field, to the meeting of the actors of integration through economic activity, the adapted enterprise, the world of inclusion and learning, that we have built the draft budget, which provides for the rise of the plan of investment in skills through a new commitment of 3 billion euros, financed half by budgetary appropriations and half by the contribution of France's powers provided for by the law. The loans will be invested in four directions. With regard to the training pathways under the Multiannual Regional Skills Investment Pacts, we are discussing with the regions, which have almost all confirmed their agreement and willingness to engage with the State on these issues. A budget of EUR 1.5 billion is provided for this purpose. Also worth mentioning is the strengthening of the training component of employment policies, in particular the integration through economic activity, which will benefit from an additional EUR 60 million devoted to a training component which was missing from it. The ICP will also strengthen the contractualised career path towards employment and autonomy – CAPEA – whose youth guarantee is the intensive version. Last year, it benefited about 75,000 young people. We are gradually approaching 100,000. It will also strengthen the reception capacity of second chance schools and EPIDEs, which have proven to be effective; €200 million for the call for projects "100% inclusion" – the first projects, which we labeled a few days ago, are very promising in terms of social innovation; and to finance the preparation for learning, which will give massive access to learning to young people who do not have access to it. The budget allocated to the Work and Employment Mission for 2019 is a significant commitment to those who need it most. Thus, an additional 10,000 people will have access to integration through economic activity, thanks to an increase in the budget of EUR 50 million for this purpose. The reform of the adapted companies will reach its full deployment: 400 million euros will be dedicated to this ambition so that an additional 10,000 people will gain access to the adapted companies in 2019. These efforts will be complemented by the creation of 100,000 career paths in skills, in addition to the 30,000 transferred to the Ministry of National Education to support students with disabilities. The experiment of free jobs, launched last April, took a few months to reach its full regime, because the actors had to appropriate the new system. In recent weeks, a very intensive cruise regime has been reached. We intend to continue this experiment with a view to assessing the possibility of its generalisation by 2020. The reform of vocational training and apprenticeships is reflected in a simplification measure: as of 1 January 2019, we set up a single aid scheme for certain companies with less than 250 employees. We are also creating a new operator, France competences: this is not a process of centralisation, since this institution brings together three current national bodies; Moreover, the State will not have the majority of seats. In order to control this whole system, we will have a real quadrilateralism. We also simplify the landscape of exemptions, with the shift of some reliefs towards common law, sometimes more favourable – I am thinking in particular of the burden reliefs for learning. Finally, EUR 3.8 billion, or one third of my budget, will support employment in the personal services sector and the creation of businesses. New avenues for improving the efficiency of the public employment service are included in this budget. Thus, at the request of the local authorities, and at their request only, the rapprochement between the local missions and the Employment Centre can be experienced. As part of Public Action 2022, we will also take action to make our public employment service work better and more effectively. Finally, I will propose that you adopt several amendments; I apologize for the late filings. One covers EUR 25 million and aims to enable the Management Association of the Fund for the Vocational Integration of Persons with Disabilities – AGEFIPH – to support the development of adapted businesses. The second proposes, for €65 million, an exemption for personal services, consistent with the PLFSS. Finally, we propose to increase France's employment ceiling to 70 FTEs worked, compared to 44 registered today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mme Michèle de Vaucouleurs also applauds]] This budget is coherent and extremely ambitious. We want to step up the effort to include the most vulnerable, to promote emancipation through work and skills, and finally to stimulate job creation, in particular through the liberation of learning and a strengthening of the effort to reduce the cost of work. The finance bill accompanies the structural reforms that we are carrying out. That is why I invite you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u43	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, on a question from the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u44	Minister, through your budgetary missions and decisions, you continue to overwhelm rural territories. You overwhelm men by removing aided contracts. You overwhelm small towns and their businesses by removing devices to support their development: FISAC, completed; the call for expression of interest of the city centres, completed; rural contracts, in extinction. And you are now tackling the territorial structures for the development of employment and the support of the public towards employment: restructuring of the network of chambers of commerce and industry – CCI; Stopping the financing of EDMs; the merger of the Employment Centre and local missions. I would like to remind you that the latter work with young people between the ages of sixteen and twenty-five. They are responsible for welcoming, informing, guiding and assisting young people in their approach to occupational and social integration: each of them receives both personal – crucial – and professional follow-up, long-term support in their learning of appropriate behaviours at work. This is, moreover, a frequent demand from the business world. Their mission is distinct from that assigned to Pôle Emploi: more than 30% of the public in local missions is not known from Pôle Emploi. This support mechanism has proved its worth. As we go through a period of economic and social uncertainty, it is unlikely that we will want to merge entities with such distinct roles. If, in the face of the interpellations of the National Union of Local Missions and the elected representatives of our territories, you have been obliged to reconsider some of your plans, doubts remain about these wishes for fusion. Minister, can you reassure youth and the territories by committing yourself to protecting local missions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u45	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u46	[[Applause on the SOC and LT benches]] You also provide funding for employment homes to communities. You underestimate, I believe, the supporting role played by these networks in terms of project engineering and the forecast management of jobs and skills, thanks to their very close relations with both communities and businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u47	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u48	The State is heavily involved in the financing of local missions, since it contributes 52 per cent to their budget, and this participation is very dynamic. Local missions are funded in a number of ways: structurally; under the accompanying missions carried out for the youth guarantee – for each accompanied young person, the local mission receives funding; Finally, under the heading of the development of sponsorship. [[Smile on the benches of the SOC group]] Considering all of these envelopes, the overall funding of local missions by my ministry, as planned for 2019, is in a very slight decrease as it decreases by 1.1%: we are increasing from 360 million euros in the initial finance law for 2018 to 356 million euros in the finance bill for 2019. In the midst of the process of computerising administrative tasks, I can tell you that in reality the means of local missions will increase! In addition, consideration is being given to the evolution of funding for local missions. This is a subject that I often talk about with the presidents of regional or departmental councils, mayors, presidents of intercommunal groups, who frequently preside over local missions: many of them consider, like the state, that we can do better, that we can better choose our objectives and better target the means, that we can succeed in seeking more invisible young people who do not come to local missions, that we can better articulate their action with that of Pôle emploi – for the part of employment, which is not alone, since there is also a global consideration of problems, with health and housing components. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We hope that in 2019, the financial circuits will be globalised to have a real discussion with the local authorities, so that the local missions will play their part even better. I'm not saying they don't fill it; But many young people are not currently covered by local missions, and this shows that different approaches are needed, in particular a more contractual and objective-oriented budgetary approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u49	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, on a question from the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u50	Minister, your action is in perfect continuity with that of previous governments. For years, the same reasoning has been repeated in the loop: the problem of unemployment would be to you first of all that of the unemployed. This statement is extended to employees whose flexibility you regularly denounce in this House, on TV sets and in newspaper columns; Even yesterday, the President of the Republic explained that it was necessary to be "more demanding" with the unemployed who, to believe it, would not really look for work. The same remedies are therefore applied, with the bad results we know, but without at any time these initial assumptions being called into question. Thus, every year the rights of the unemployed are reduced to "encourage them to return to work". Companies are exempt from social security contributions to "facilitate job creation". The number of labour inspectors and doctors is being reduced to "relief the constraints on economic activity". The budgetary missions we are discussing this morning illustrate what I am denouncing. Is unemployment stagnating? You are removing 800 jobs at the Employment Centre rather than significantly expanding the "zero-unemployed territories" scheme. Burn-out and suffering at work are on the rise? You are reducing appropriations to improve the quality of employment by 63%, particularly by protecting the health of employees. Ill-lawful work continues to prosper? You are reducing the resources allocated to the labour inspectorate responsible for punishing him. All this is incomprehensible. You, I'm sure, won't be able to explain it to us. But whatever it is, you stick to it, and you repeat that you are going to "release the energies", "personalise the paths", "modernize the world of work" and "enter the economy of tomorrow". The list of expressions of this novlangue that you resave is long, and as we sing the adventures of the green mouse in kindergartens, or the Our Father in churches, you take them back in choir. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] But repeating is not convincing, so these are my questions: why lower the labour inspectorate's budget? Why so timidly develop the experiment "zero-unemployed territories"? Why, finally, do we not give ourselves the means to achieve an ambitious improvement in health at work?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u51	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u52	[[Smile]] Mr Corbière, I have heard good news in your remarks: in your opinion, Mr Vallaud should vote for this mission; I encourage her to do so. As for Pôle emploi, you have understood that the overall resources of this organization are increasing. We will therefore have the means to continue the very innovative actions carried out on the ground. The employment offices of Pôle Emploi are able to adapt to the local labour market, in order to act in a very targeted way. This is important because some employment pools are now aware of what is called full employment, i.e. an unemployment rate of around 5%: their problem is to find the skills sought; On the other hand, the unemployment rate is extremely high, and the support of the most difficult job seekers must be greater. So we want to customize. The overall budget of Pôle Emploi exceeds 5 billion euros in 2019, as the UNEDIC contribution increases mechanically by more than 100 million euros: more people have found a job, the wage bill increases. Both employment and local missions can now be more efficient, more productive, thanks to support platforms and digitisation. Administrative work is important in these agencies, and these developments must allow for more personalised support for job seekers. For some, networking with potential employers is enough: they have skills, trust and networks, but they need to know what jobs are available. Others, more in difficulty, need much more support. That is the meaning of our action. We will have the opportunity, when we consider the amendments, to discuss the other issues that you have discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u53	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, on a question from the Group of the European People's Party on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u54	I would like to associate my colleague Valérie Petit, Member of Parliament for the North, with my question. The adapted enterprise employs at least 80% of disabled workers; it allows them to pursue a professional activity under conditions appropriate to their abilities. These disabled workers have the status of employees and are subject to the same rules as others. The reform of adapted enterprises, which comes into force on 1 January, is undergoing major changes; the aim is to recruit an additional 40,000 people by 2022. While confirming the economic and social vocation of these companies, it evolves their model, from a more inclusive perspective, with a greater mix, a greater diversity of the audiences welcomed. It also makes it possible to experiment with new forms of accompaniment for people with disabilities towards employment, by facilitating bridges between suitable companies and others. Finally, it must ensure better access to these jobs for those who are furthest from the labour market, and in particular the beneficiaries of the allowance for adults with disabilities – which I would point out in passing that it has been increased. Still, questions remain among managers of adapted companies, such as AlterEos in Tourcoing. They concern in particular the obligation to employ disabled workers in ordinary enterprises: there is a change in the rules for calculating employment equivalences, these beneficiary units resulting from subcontracts with the adapted enterprises or the establishments and services of help through work, the ESATs – I am thinking in particular of establishments located in my constituency, for example in Briey, Pienne or Villers-la-Montagne. Self-employed workers will no longer be counted for the calculation of the direct employment rate. However, expenses incurred may be deducted from the AGEFIPH contribution. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, how will this happen? Are these new rules not likely to demobilise companies that would prefer to pay their full contribution to the AGEFIPH? What interest will they have in working with the appropriate and protected sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u55	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u56	Thank you, honourable Member, for drawing attention to this very important point. There are 500,000 people with disabilities registered at Pôle Emploi: all of them want to work, they can bring things to businesses, and they want to be able to prove it. This population has an unemployment rate above 18 per cent, which is twice as high as the average. With Sophie Cluzel, we have, in the law for freedom to choose his professional future, planned a transformation of the employment policy of disabled workers that goes far beyond the budgetary dimension. The obligation to employ disabled workers is an essential element of this; Our logic is to go towards inclusive business. In particular, we want to extend the scope of posts open to persons with disabilities by revising lists dating back to 1987, which now have the effect of excluding people from many posts. Finally, accounting by company and not by institution will open up more than 100,000 posts for persons with disabilities. The transformation of the system of calculation in the case of subcontracting allows for a great simplification, which was expected of the sector, but also of all companies – which the old complexity ended up discouraging. From now on, the decree will provide that account shall be taken in the calculation of the deduction of all the wages of persons employed by structures of the ESAT type or adapted enterprise. It will be simpler and just as effective. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] At the budgetary level, we are accompanying this development, in particular by supporting adapted businesses, which are a real springboard to ordinary employment. The agreement I signed on 12 July with the National Union of Adapted Enterprises will, thanks to the budget increases, make it possible to have more than 5000 FTEs, or 10000 more people, as of 2019. This measure is very much expected by the sector. Together, we can advance the inclusive business.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u57	I call Mr Saïd Ahamada to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u58	I would like to mention the free jobs, a measure promised by the President of the Republic during his campaign, and then made applicable by the minister – which I thank her for. The free jobs, I recall, have been experienced since April 2018. They cover 194 priority neighbourhoods of city policy spread over seven territories. The criteria for benefiting are quite simple: to reside in a QPV and to be registered with Pôle Emploi. Subject to these criteria, all companies in France may be recruited. The signing of a CDI leads to the payment of a bonus of 5000 euros per year, and that of a CDD of at least six months, of a bonus of 1500 euros per year. These conditions are particularly interesting for companies, which I encourage, if they can, to use this mechanism. Contrary to what I heard in my constituency, free jobs are not aided contracts. As long as the persons concerned meet the required conditions, no label or authorisation from the State authorities is necessary for the aid to be granted to the undertakings. It is therefore a formidable tool, even if – as I say in response to comments made to me – free jobs will not solve unemployment in the city's priority neighbourhoods. The purpose of this measure is to combat only one discrimination, that related to the address. It is not intended to provide better training for those living in these territories – it is the role of ICP – or to correct the effects of other types of discrimination. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, can you tell us what the first results of this arrangement are? Are you considering communicating with companies that, unfortunately, do not know enough about its existence today?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u59	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u60	With free jobs, we have launched a real plan to combat territorial discrimination in hiring. Indeed, with equal experience or diploma, the inhabitants of the priority political districts of the city are two to three times less likely to be hired than the others. It is unbearable in a republic that must give all the same rights. The challenge is to help these people without assigning them to residence. The scheme has been applied experimentally since 1 April in nearly 200 neighbourhoods. Within a year, we will evaluate the results to decide on its possible generalization. I would like to inform you that 2300 contracts have already been signed, a very strong acceleration having been observed in recent weeks. From a qualitative point of view, it is interesting to note that 80% of them are CDIs, one third of whom benefit job seekers residing in Seine-Saint-Denis and joining a company outside the department. In addition, 33% of beneficiaries have a level of qualification equal to or lower than the certificate of professional fitness. However, as you said, honourable Member, free jobs cannot be the only instrument against discrimination. Now that the launch of the device is confirmed, I am confident – initially, the employment offices, including those outside the QPVs, were struggling to promote it. This step has been taken: a whole network has developed, which transmits information to companies. At the same time, I appointed Patrick Toulmet as the interdepartmental delegate for the development of learning in the priority areas of city policy. This is another discrimination faced by residents of QPVs: they have less access to learning. Finally, the Competency Investment Plan places a very important emphasis on VQs. Among the first cases labeled "100% inclusion", more than half concern these neighbourhoods. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will continue in this direction. Only one instrument will not succeed, but by acting on all the levers, we can make significant progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u61	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u62	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u63	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u64	I call the appropriations of the "Work and Employment" mission, entered in statement B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1595.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u65	The purpose of this amendment is to draw the budgetary consequences of the amendment, in the draft law on the financing of social security, of the exemption of employers' contributions to companies and associations which employ home helpers with vulnerable individuals. The original text provided for a total exemption from contributions, including unemployment insurance and supplementary pensions, for remuneration up to 1.1 SMICs. The exemption was then degressive up to 1.6 SMIC. An amendment to the draft law on the financing of social security extended the benefit of the total exemption to remuneration up to 1.2 SMIC. This new scale represents an additional €65 million in support of the home help sector for vulnerable audiences. These additional appropriations should therefore be included in the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u66	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u67	The amendment was not considered by the committee. Personally, I have a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u68	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1387, 1427 corrected, 1381, 1354, 1438 and 1481, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 1387.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u69	The Socialist and related group has strongly denounced the brutality of the drastic decline in the number of contracts assisted last year, a decline that continues this year with dramatic consequences in our territories, particularly in the sports, animation and culture sectors. The new contract you have created and whose after-sales service you are providing – the single contract of insertion "job path skills" – is a failure. Last May, only 20 per cent had been signed, and subsequently half of them were prescribed. You seem to take note of this failure since where you committed yourself to creating 200000 PECs in 2019, you finally resign yourself to proposing only 100,000. The rapporteur's hearings highlighted the three reasons for this failure – I have already mentioned them. The first is the unfunded training obligation; the second is the inadequacy of the State's coverage rate; The third, of a psychological nature, is that the employers have been put to rest by your decisions. The Socialist and Related Group proposes, in accordance with the commitments you made last year, the creation of 100,000 additional aided contracts in 2019, for which state ownership would be increased to 70% of the SMIC. In order to achieve this, the amendment provides for EUR 582.45 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 242.3 million in payment appropriations for action 02 of programme 102 – and taking into account Article 40 of the Constitution, thereby reducing the appropriations for another programme of the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u70	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 1427 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u71	Year after year, the Government is reducing the number of assisted contracts. In the PLF for 2019, 100,000 job skills courses are scheduled, a 41% decrease from 2018. To justify such a decrease, the Government argues that not all appropriations were consumed in 2018. This argument is not convincing: it conceals very badly the desire to drastically reduce the volume of aided contracts. Underconsumption, assuming it is real, is due to the fungibility of the means now available to regional prefects – they have chosen to consume credits for IAE contracts rather than aided contracts. Second, the rate of government support fell, while the demands on employers were increased. The employer is thus subject to an enhanced obligation of means, including the support of the employee who seeks to integrate in a sustainable manner. This is not without difficulties. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to correct these defects in order to make the system more efficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u72	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 1381.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u73	Last week, unemployment figures fell: almost 22000 additional jobseekers all categories combined and 16,000 additional jobseekers on precarious contracts during the quarter; 3100 fewer training entries in 2018 compared to 2017. On the employment front, the figures show that you have reduced custody. By drastically reducing and by ideology the number of contracts aided...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u74	It's not ideological!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u75	... you have weakened entire sectors, especially the world of associations. Twelve thousand five hundred associative employers have disappeared and 2% of sports clubs are going to put the key under the door in 2018. The freeze on aided contracts represents a shortfall of €1.3 billion for associations. In EHPAD, the aided contracts were 80 or 90 % financed by the State, while the new EHPAD contracts are only 40 % financed; institutions must therefore find internal resources to finance them. In social centres, 313 early childhood activities were destabilized and 344 youth activities stopped. The list is long and in our ridings, not a day passes without people coming to report to us the terrible effects of your decisions. You will tell me that you have removed contracts that were not working in favour of a new type of contract, the CEC, which I have already pointed out the weak success that it is experiencing today. In order for the Government to fulfil the commitments made last year by the Minister, the Socialist and Related Group proposes the creation of 100,000 additional aided contracts. And we overcome as we can the obligations created by Article 40!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u76	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 1354.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u77	This amendment aims to create 100,000 additional aided contracts in 2019 at a cost of €190 million. In the first year of the exercise of responsibilities, it can be considered that a decision so brutal and far removed from the reality of the territories, particularly the working-class neighbourhoods of which I am one of the elected ones, is a mistake. But in the second year, when we persist and remain deaf to the dramatic consequences, both for associations and for beneficiaries, of the abolition of aided contracts, it is no longer a mistake, it is a mistake. With this amendment, we invite you not to make this mistake, to correct your mistake last year and to have more consideration for the aided contracts which constituted a first step towards employment for those who were far from it. For chairing an HLM organization in a popular district of Seine-Saint-Denis, I can assure you that the aided contracts have enabled many people to return to the path of dignity, employment and training. I would like to offer you many examples of people who have made it through these contracts. Do not throw reproach on this device. Come back to the mistake you made and don't make the mistake of repeating it this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u78	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 1438.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u79	This is a fallback amendment from the previous one, which had the dual ambition of raising the volume of jobs supported and raising the rate of government support in order to encourage employers to use this integration tool. It plans to increase the number of CECs to 169500, the same volume as in 2018, without raising the coverage rate if the Government maintains its decision not to assist employers further.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u80	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 1481.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u81	The PLF for 2019 provides funding for 100,000 new contract entries supported by PEC compared to 200000 in the Finance Act for 2018. In view of the transfer of 30500 PECs to the 230 "Student Life" programme of the "School Education" mission, under the responsibility of the Ministry of National Education, the number of contracts actually fell to 69500. This appears to be justified in view of the consumption observed in 2018. However, in recent months, the number of admissions was around 9500 per month. On the basis of these figures, for one year, their number would thus reach 114000, slightly above the 100000 planned. The amendment is therefore intended to adjust the number of consumer-funded jobs in the last eight months of 2018, the small number of CECs in the first few months being explained by the new nature of the scheme. The amendment thus increases the appropriations in order to be able to finance 114000 hires instead of the 100000 planned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u82	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u83	Mr Vallaud, you are referring to hearings by the rapporteur which would have highlighted the three reasons for what you call a failure. Let me tell you that in the auditions that I conducted, I did not hear the same bell sound, but I easily understand that you prefer to see the glass half empty rather than half full. We assume the policy of refocusing aided contracts to the non-market sector, which is in line with the guidelines set out in 2018. You cannot deny that the aided contracts have been a boon for some employers and that they have over time moved away from their original target, namely the long-term unemployed. I quote the example of the mayor of a commune in my constituency. At the announcement of the reduction in the number of aided contracts, he told me that he alone employed ten aided contracts which he renewed by changing ownership each time; He confessed to me that he had taken advantage of this bounty – he cannot be blamed for using a tool that was at his disposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u84	It's not the mayors' mindset!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u85	Yes, for some!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u86	Know that today, this mayor hired ten people because the municipality had a lot of money. Finally, he is very proud to have created ten more permanent jobs in his municipality. The PLF for 2019 provides for the financing of 100,000 PEC contracts, amounting to €389 million. There has already been a refocusing of these contracts for the benefit of people without qualifications, disabled workers and people from the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy. If the start-up is slow, it is precisely because these new contracts require a change of approach, a more demanding accompaniment. In CECs, the person is placed at the centre of the device, which was no longer the case in assisted contracts. I am aware, like all my colleagues in the majority, of the temporary difficulties that the reduction in the number of assisted contracts may pose for certain sectors of activity, particularly in the voluntary sector or in those of early childhood and sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u87	And the EHPADs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u88	But, Mr Vallaud, if you, like me, have done your job as a field elected candidate, I am sure that you have intervened with the prefect and the DIRECCTE in order to obtain the renewal of assisted contracts for certain associations until January 1, 2019. As of that date, the associations will benefit from the reduction in employers' contributions, following the transformation of the CICE, which will represent additional resources amounting to EUR 1.4 billion. That deserves to be stressed. If you spread this measure in your territory to associations, as I have done, you will see that it is very well received. Instead of assisted contracts, associations will finally be able to hire on an indeterminate contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u89	We must not meet the same people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u90	We must conclude, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u91	I take the time to develop an argument for this whole series of amendments. I will not take the floor again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u92	Either, but the rules are the rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u93	Mr Little, if the path of dignity goes for you through the aided contract, we do not have the same definition of dignity at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u94	Isn't it worth getting help on a contract?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u95	Mr Viry, I would like to remind you that your presidential candidate, Mr Fillon, wanted purely and simply to eliminate all assisted jobs. And you defend them today. I don't understand. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Among the amendments submitted to a joint debate, the only one which was examined by the committee was rejected. On all the others, on a personal basis, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u96	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u97	Mr. Cherpion used the term insinuity. I recall – the memory is important – that the previous government had planned a very large drop in the volume of aided contracts but that, in fact, it consumed a very large number of them. Why did we find ourselves in this rather brutal situation – I recognise it – for the associations last year? Under the combined effect of under-programming and over-consumption, which forced us to add 40,000 disaster-assisted contracts last summer. As for those on other benches, who are concerned today as they proposed during the presidential campaign that aided contracts be abolished outright, I say to them that we must have a little memory. In substance, we wanted to transform assisted jobs into CECs so that these contracts would be entirely and solely at the service of job seekers furthest from the qualification. It has been twenty or thirty years in France that we know that what works, what is effective, what helps people to regain dignity and the path to employment, is the triptych of working, training and accompaniment. This is what we want to do with skills employment pathways. We actually found a difference: we had programmed 200000 job skills courses in the 2018 budget, but the demand was only 100,000 – 130,000 which should be cut off the 30,000 contracts for school life assistants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u99	That's why we plan to fund 100,000 in next year's budget: that's what communities and associations are able to absorb by doing quality work that is truly at the service of the unemployed. This policy has first results: in 2018, the acquisition of new skills increased by 9% and the number of qualifying trainings increased by 6%. In addition, there is a shift towards more vulnerable audiences: among the contracts assisted, there were sometimes graduates with baccalaureate+4; In this case, 42 % of the beneficiaries are long-term job seekers, 21 % are holders of the AHR and 13 % live in a priority neighbourhood of the city's policy. We will continue this qualitative work, which will be complemented, in the area of training, by the skills investment plan. I would also point out, it is very important, that we favour the rise of integration structures through economic activity, in particular by suitable enterprises, because this method of integration has a more positive effect on employment, to the benefit of the same public. Finally, as the Special Rapporteur pointed out, the associations will benefit from €1.4 billion from 1 January, which will allow them to hire more sustainably. Not all of them have yet integrated it into their programming. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is what is needed to help people in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u101	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u102	Our group supports these amendments. The unemployment rate is a rising and decreasing statistic. Unfortunately, when unemployment is reduced, it does not decrease in neighbourhoods in difficulty. The figures have shown us: when growth returns, it only plays in the most affluent neighbourhoods, in the metropolises and the big cities; Unfortunately, rural and peri-urban areas and the priority areas of city policy do not benefit. As a result, the famous social divide, which we have been talking about for years, is growing. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to the risk of explosions in these neighbourhoods. Assisted jobs are not the panacea, and a number of cities have certainly benefited from a bounty effect, but it is a dampening of the social difficulties of neighbourhoods. Think of the number of associations that have employed young people in difficulty in these neighbourhoods, which has sometimes prevented a social explosion. Today, we are on the brink of the social explosion. That is why I support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u103	I should like to say that I give the floor to one speaker per group. Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u104	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You mentioned a focus on priority audiences, especially the long-term unemployed. How many people have been unemployed for more than a year? Two and a half million. And you tell us about 100,000 career paths skills! Do you feel like you're fulfilling your mission? Have you seen what's going on in the sports sector? A considerable number of sports clubs will disappear in 2020. And you ask them for understanding and applause? The problem is duality: to create 1% more jobs, growth of 1% is enough in some territories, but growth of 3% is needed in others. As has been said, the territories are not equal in the face of recovery. And the public, too, are not equal in the face of recovery: the first affected by the crisis are the last affected by recovery. That is the reality. We simply ask you to adjust the number of job paths skills. We too believe that training is absolutely necessary in employment, a fortiori in assisted employment. Our proposals are not delusional: 100,000 job paths additional skills. This is in line with the goal you set yourself last year. Why do you give up on satisfying him? You considered it necessary. That's what we wanted to say.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u105	Mr Saïd Ahamada has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u106	If fewer aided contracts are signed, it is that the communities and government services, especially those of national education, have transformed, as you all know, aided contracts into more lasting contracts, including public law contracts. I come to the very principle of the aided contract, which should instead be referred to as a "subsidized contract" if we were to comply with reality. Who was it to help originally? Only people in precarious situations, to bring them back to employment. I hear a lot that associations are in difficulty, but at no time have the aided contracts been intended to help them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u107	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u108	Over time, there has been a subversion of the device. Of course, associations find themselves in difficulty, but it is because the aided contracts have become disguised subsidies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u109	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u110	Either these associations fulfil a public service mission and assist the population, in which case the communities and government services must subsidize them for this. Either that is not the case, and they must stop doing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u111	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u112	As far as the dignity of people is concerned, excuse me to say so, but chaining aided contracts has never made it possible to get out of the precarious situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u113	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u114	I grew up in the northern districts of Marseilles, worked there and led associative structures. But I received calls from the prefect, who asked me, for example, to find ten people because he had ten contracts to fill. And it was the same for most associations. So don't tell me the goal was to help people! This has never been the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u115	So, be consistent: zero PEC!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am not saying that the device has not been used for anything, but that it has been diverted, and that is what we want to fight against. We are focusing on the non-market sector, because it is the sector that has been proven to allow people to be better integrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u117	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u118	For my part, Mr. Ahamada, I did not live in popular neighbourhoods: I live there in those of Saint-Denis. I raised my children there, I work there, I belong to associations and I can give you totally inverse examples to those that you and the Special Rapporteur have just mentioned. We can send examples to each other, but this will not make much progress in the debate. [[Applause on the SOC, UDI-Agir and LR benches]] In the case of the mayor mentioned by the Special Rapporteur, there is, I am sorry to say, a bad prefect: how could a prefect have allowed a mayor to act in this way, when that was not at all allowed by the framework of assisted contracts? [[Exclaims on the panels of the Commission and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] At home, in Seine-Saint-Denis, it would never have been possible to do this, because never would the prefect who was responsible for following the aided contracts have allowed such a hijacking of their minds. You mustn't say too much nonsense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u119	Only Mr. Little has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u120	If there are mistakes and abuses, which is probably real, the framework must be created to correct them. And how can you say that these are subsidized jobs? In this year's budget, it is cheese and dessert: there is the CICE and the exemption of social contributions for 20 billion euros! But there is no job at the key. These are gifts given to companies without conditions of job creation, hiring or training. It is a blank cheque for a considerable amount of money paid to businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u121	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u122	These are subsidies that translate into zero job creation, while the aided contracts allowed, in a number of cases, to return to the employment and dignity of people who were distant from it. But you sacrifice them, just as you sacrifice many things in the working-class neighborhoods. Watch out for the back of the stick! We'll have warned you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u124	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u125	As you said yourself, Madam Special Rapporteur: the job skills path scheme has started slowly. There has been a period of adjustment to the new rules, to the need to raise quality for the proposed training. Our group welcomed the new directions of the Government, namely the reduction in the number of assisted contracts and the refocusing on other arrangements. Nevertheless, the under-consumption of skills employment routes does not concern the entire territory: in the Yvelines, of the 697 skills employment routes dedicated to employment, employment cap and local missions, 99.4% were consumed. Consideration must be given to the period of adaptation that has been necessary. That is the meaning of my amendment, which is very reasonable. We do not question the new orientations, we simply say: "Be careful, the account is not there. It would take 14000 job paths additional skills compared to the current trajectory. It is therefore an adjustment that we are asking for. It would make sense for me to take account of the latest consumption figures and adjust the envelope accordingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u126	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u127	I agree with Mr Little with regard to aided contracts: we cannot generalize, Madam Special Rapporteur. There is no dogma about it. We gathered various testimonies from each other: sometimes the device worked very well; Sometimes the practice was a boon or drift effect. As I noted during the numerous hearings I conducted, both in Paris and in the provinces, in order to prepare my budget opinion, all the employers who used the aided contracts had a twofold concern: on the one hand, they registered, with deep sincerity, in a logic of accompaniment and integration of their employees – they did not mobilise staff to mobilise staff –; On the other hand, they have developed services or services which they could not otherwise have offered. So the aided contracts obviously have added value in our society. Madam Minister, Madam Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I still feel a form of distrust on your part with regard to this tool. In these amendments, in any case in my own case, we are asking not for more career paths, but for the maintenance of the volume that existed in 2018. We acknowledge that your new product is based on the triptych of integration through economic activity, which works, we know very well. These amendments, in particular mine, are not intended to take us, I do not know where: they are going in your direction. You have reformatted the assisted jobs, and I congratulate you on that, as you have probably found a suitable format, but continue the momentum given in 2018 by keeping the same volume of career paths skills.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u128	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u129	I note a relative unanimity in the House on the question of assisted jobs: MEPs MODEM, UDI, LR, Socialists, Communists and France are in agreement; Only On the Move remains on the margins. The number of assisted jobs has increased from 301000 last year to 200000 this year, and you are planning 100,000 next year. There is indeed a perverse aspect to the system of assisted jobs, which must not be denied. I met in the canteens of colleges and high schools, in the laundries of hospitals, in the gardening services of the communes, people who have chained contracts helped for decades; It had become their career. A number of institutions had indeed begun to operate with the system. However, I also have in mind the face and first name of many people to whom these aided contracts served as crutches.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u130	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u131	There are accidents in life that have, through this, regained the path of employment – certainly, not necessarily of normal employment – and of socialization. It's probably not by removing these crutches that we fix things! That is what has happened, in many cases. I got into a fight with the prefect about this. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] For your part, you had to find a way to ensure that "assisted employment" was not synonymous with "insecure". However, by pretending to fight against insecurity, you eliminate assisted jobs. There are, however, people in our country who need help to find the way to employment and socialization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u132	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u133	Madam Minister, even if you question my sincerity, I would like to say very sincerely, in front of my Socialist colleagues who, I think, will not deny me, that I have not really been a supporter of the socialist government at this time! Unfortunately, long-term unemployment continues to rise, especially among older people. What is proposed here is a first step in helping the people concerned to return to employment and thus regain dignity. That is why I believe that we must support these amendments and that the Republican Group will vote for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u134	On the forthcoming amendment No 1439, I have received a request from France for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 1439.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u135	I come back, Madam Minister, to the rate of state ownership of the CECs, which varies between 30 and 60 per cent, depending on the regions and the profiles of the beneficiaries. In any event, these rates are well below the previous coverage rates – 72.5% in 2017 and almost 76% in 2016. This very low level of care is, in my view, the main obstacle to the use of this system of integration. There is clearly a concern of all potential employers who, in my view, explain this least recourse, which was confirmed to me very broadly during my hearings. As I said, taking care of a person who has been permanently away from employment requires time, investment from the employer and often a financial incentive is needed in return. This rate of participation is not a favour granted to the employer, it is simply the fair recognition of what it brings to the nation by caring for men and women who have long been away from employment. That is why I am proposing, by this amendment, to re-evaluate the assumption that the CECs will be taken over at 72% instead of 50%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u136	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u137	I will not go back to the debate about CECs and aided contracts. This amendment has not been considered by the committee. Personally, I give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u138	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u139	I am pleased that Mr Cherpion and Mr Viry, who, during the last presidential campaign, proposed to abolish them, are now convinced, like me, of the need for aided contracts and career paths. A lot on these benches said last year that they were being removed, which caused real anxiety when it was never – I say never – that they were being removed, only to calibrate them, so that they served job seekers, not employers. These contracts are intended to accompany jobseekers; their aim cannot be to help local authorities, associations or private structures – that is why we have completely eliminated them in the market sector. Today, our priority is quality access, training and social support, and we are well on our way in this direction. We've planned a cruise rhythm that matches the reality. If the reality had been different, if some employers had told us that they were able to accompany more, I would have proposed more in the budget. Today I do not want to push the machine again to redo numbers, as at one time associations, communities, prefects have been pushed to make numbers, they themselves recognize. I can tell you that at that time little attention was paid to the outcome for job seekers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Today I refuse to push the fires. I prefer to focus on the qualitative aspect. Of course if, in addition to everything that is done in the priority areas of the city, we could do while not losing sight of this qualitative concern, we would look at whether there are margins in management, but I will not take the risk of increasing a figure that would give back the signal that everything is open without qualitative accompaniment. It is our collective responsibility to make this mechanism work and help to find a long-term job.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u140	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u141	In an ideal world, Madam Minister, there would be no aided contracts, we all agree on this point, even though our views differ on the usefulness and the way in which we do things. It is still complicated to drastically reduce the number of these contracts – which, whatever the name given to them, have always included a training objective, more or less achieved according to the periods – in a France that maintains extremely large mass unemployment. I know well that some prefects, like probably some ministers, were pushing for aided contracts, that there was a lot of laxity in recruitment and little seriousness in the trainings that were offered – when they were. But this "number policy" was linked to a very different economic situation. The current situation is much better even if unemployment remains extremely high. That you refocus assisted contracts on a path to employment and skills development, but we still need to help a number of employers to use these types of contracts. The interest of the employee is obviously a priority, but employers must also be helped. I believe that improving the management of this job is absolutely necessary. The objective could be discussed for a long time, but what the Republicans were essentially criticising was the brutality and violence of reducing the number of these assisted contracts while unemployment was not falling at the same rate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u142	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1439.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u143	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 33 Number of votes cast 31 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 10 Against 21
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u144	On Amendment No 1441, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 1441.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u145	With this amendment, we are showing the desire to go even further, but in a rational and rational way, in favour of integration through economic activity, since it aims to increase the number of posts opened in 2019 by 20%. Minister, you open 76000 FTEs in this PLF for the IAE sector. These are indeed 5000 additional posts, I have given you this in my introductory statement. However, I consider that this increase is still very insufficient in relation to the potential of the IAE sector, and above all in relation to the needs. Fungibility has actually benefited the IEA to the detriment of the CEC, but this very fungibility proves that there is an ability to do in the IEA sector, which also translates into under-budgeting. For information, 28000 PECs have become fungible in IAE, or about 3600 FTEs in terms of IAE. I would simply ask you to go where Mr Borello proposed that you go in recommendation 10 of his report: an increase of 20% per year in the number of jobs assisted until the end of the quinquennium. This is the subject of this amendment, which goes a little beyond what you are proposing, in proportions that I believe are compatible with the capacity of our budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u147	The appropriations for integration through economic activity are increasing significantly in the PLF for 2019, with almost 50 million euros in increase to finance 5000 additional aid for the item. The overall budget will thus amount to EUR 889 million for 134,000 assisted persons. I say it and say it again: the target set by the plan to combat poverty is 230,000 people for a total of 1.17 billion euros. We can all welcome this unprecedented investment in this sector at the service of the most precarious. While we can always hope to go faster and further, we must also allow time for reform to unfold and on a subject as crucial as integration through economic activity, the essential thing is still to achieve the goal set with real results. I would also remind you that the funds for the aided contracts and for the IAE are now merged within the Employment Inclusion Fund, which allows for a fungibility of the appropriations between the two schemes, so as to better adapt to the territorial specificities. As this amendment has not been discussed by the committee, it is in my personal capacity that I give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u148	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u149	I think we share the same conviction. I very much believe in economic integration as well as in enterprises adapted as a footstool to regain self-confidence, to be placed in a working situation, to acquire training and to benefit from support for employment. As part of the anti-poverty strategy, we have made it very clear that we want to increase from 134,000 to 230,000 beneficiaries per year on the quinquennium horizon. We therefore share the same objective. The question is at what speed the device can evolve. For the adapted companies, I signed an agreement last July. We have already discussed ways to be both more productive, to move more towards ordinary employment and to increase the number of job subsidies. As far as the IEA is concerned, we are starting this discussion, but we do not yet have the action plan to reach the 230,000 beneficiaries. We have planned an additional 5,000 FTEs, which means 10,000 beneficiaries this year. The exchanges that I have with the representatives of this sector lead me to believe that it cannot go any faster by leading at the same time the reform aimed at amplification of the system. What we are looking for is a long-term agreement with the sector. I would also point out that the increase in the number of beneficiaries is not directly correlated with the number of aid to the post due to the scale effects. It is a four-year plan that I want to sign with the sector to ensure this development. This is an essential element of our fight against unemployment and for access to employment for the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u150	I put to the vote Amendment No 1441.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u151	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 35 Number of votes cast 34 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 13 Against 21
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u152	As I am seized in a Pavlovian mode of a series of requests for public ballots, I urge all of you to remain in your place. We'll save time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u153	Mr François Ruffin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u154	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, you cannot call the choice to request public elections a Pavlovian. It is a right of the parliamentarian to request a public vote. It is known that Members do not necessarily vote in the same way when they raise their hands as when, anonymously, they press a button. And so...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u155	Thank you, Mr Ruffin, for the point of order, but we are not going to open a debate on this subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] First, of course, I am not opposed to public voting, but I have the right to describe it as I hear it: it is also my freedom of speech. Take note of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u156	Your freedom of speech is not a freedom to take sides!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u157	I also find that you show very little esteem for our colleagues if you think they are changing their minds according to the voting method.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u158	On Amendments Nos 1355 and 1388, which are under joint discussion, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party, of a request for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 1355.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u159	The aim of this amendment is, as part of a method of financing explained in the summary presentation, to restore the resources available to Pôle emploi and to remedy the reduction in the subsidy for public service missions granted to it by the State. Indeed, we consider that the situation of employment and unemployment in our country does not allow us to reduce this subsidy, which will result in the abolition of 800 posts. Unemployment and employment do not evolve in such a positive way that such a bleed is possible! It is therefore important to restore Pôle emploi in its missions as unemployment increases and access to employment, unfortunately, is becoming increasingly difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u160	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 1388.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u161	This amendment is also intended to re-establish the appropriations for Pôle Emploi. The possibility of a concomitant reduction in the number of people employed and unemployed was mentioned. However, as unemployment increases, it is difficult to see why the number of people employed at the employment centre would decrease.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u162	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u163	This is all the more true since they have already decreased significantly last year since 600 posts were abolished, plus the abolition of 1,350 aided contracts. The load per agent is now considerable and the accompaniment cannot be done in good conditions. In addition, you have strengthened the means of control at Pôle Emploi. So what are the ones you will devote to accompaniment, which you regularly say is a priority? That is the meaning of our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u165	As regards the financial means, I would remind you that the resources of Pôle emploi consist of a State subsidy for public service charges and a contribution from the managing body of the unemployment insurance scheme, UNEDIC. Taking these parameters into account, the increase for 2019 amounts to €20 million. As far as staffing is concerned, I must first correct your figures. It is 400 FTEs that are planned to be deleted and not 800 as your amendments indicate – which is not at all the same – and it is also worth appreciating this decrease compared to an effort of 297 FTEs made in 2018 and a total ceiling of 46045 FTEs. I would remind you that we are working in the context of the budgetary effort requested of state operators, with a view to controlling public finances. In addition, in 2018 and 2019, new resources are added to this budget, including those from the Skills Investment Plan, which amounts to €365 million in two years. These appropriations will finance the OPCAs – the recognised joint collecting bodies – the initiation plan for vocational training or, again, the "Valorize your professional image" service designed to understand the different dimensions of professional know-how. Pôle emploi, whose director I interviewed, Jean Bassères, is therefore not worried about the evolution of its allocation, especially since in 2017, of the fourteen performance indicators of the tripartite convention, all the objectives set were achieved...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u166	The fall in unemployment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u167	... in particular the best known: the number of jobseekers followed by counsellors, whose average today is 46 – certainly with territorial disparities, but it is below the maximum volume of the portfolio, which stands at 70. I went to the employment offices of my constituency, where I met all the players: all are aware of the need to modernise their profession and of the possibility of optimising their portfolio. They showed me that it was possible to ask business leaders to trust them and to hire people without resumes...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u168	We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u169	... based on skills. This is proof that today we are seeing a refocusing on these activities and that the modernisation of the profession we are asking for from Pôle Emploi is effective. For all these reasons, these two amendments were rejected in committee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u171	In addition to the elements of my reply I have already given to Mr Corbière, I would add that, in dynamic terms, the allocation of UNEDIC is increasing by EUR 100 million next year. Furthermore, the optimisation of support platforms and the digitalisation of the support of job seekers allow the repositioning of more than 3000 agents for the accompaniment, which represents an additional 30% effort. The 800 FTEs in question must be put in perspective with the other 56,000 – they therefore represent only 1.4% – and their loss will more than be compensated: next year, the support of job seekers who need it most will be strengthened.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u172	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u173	I note that the minister confirms the figure of 800 FTEs, which the rapporteur had just denied. The public employment rate in France is 126 per 1,000 inhabitants, as in Germany or the United Kingdom. The myth that there are too many public officials seems to me to be quite unfounded. The battle for employment should not lead to savings on the main operator in charge of accompanying those who are looking for one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u174	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u175	Unemployment continues to rise, job seekers are growing and 800 FTEs are being abolished! At one point, a coherent policy is needed: you ask Pôle for more employment in a wide range of areas, particularly administrative ones, and you think that the agents will be able to carry out more support! It should be added that the advisers will have to deal with 70 issues related to the poverty plan. That's not possible! We will therefore vote for these common-sense amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u176	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u177	Again, right and left agree that there is a problem. Unemployment is rising, all categories combined, but you decide to remove 800 jobs at the Employment Centre! You invoke digitalization, productivity gains, but what will be the consequence of all this? Dehumanization. I've received agents from Berck's Pôle Emploi agency. They explained to me that two years ago, an allotee was waiting 30 minutes for his file to be processed, then it was half a day, then he had to fill out a contact sheet sent to people on another floor, then it was not even possible anymore: he must now send an email, which in addition will not be sent to an allowance specialist. I refer you to Ken Loach's film, Me, Daniel Blake, where it is not only poverty that is highlighted, but an inhuman system: we seek to meet a human being and what we see, computers, machines, telephones to reach one person, then another, we spend our time being sent from one service to another in call centres... The system tends to be inhuman, and that is why we wish, at a minimum, to maintain the same number of employees at the employment centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u178	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1355.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u179	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 33 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 10 Against 23
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u180	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1388.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u181	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 32 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 9 Against 23
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u182	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1479 and 1440, which can be discussed jointly. On Amendment No 1479, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. On Amendment No 1440, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 1479.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u183	The appropriations provided in the PLF for 2019 for new entries in the Career Skills Course are based on an assumption of an average contract duration of 10.2 months. However, actors in the field, whether employers or beneficiaries, agree that a 12-month period is necessary and much more effective for the provision of quality personalized support. In committee, Madam Minister, you have also indicated that this period seems to you the most appropriate. It therefore seems necessary that the appropriations be sufficient to finance routes over a minimum period of 12 months and to avoid under-budgeting. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to review the appropriations for the sub-action 'Inclusion in employment through assisted jobs' of programme 102 in order to be able to finance contracts over a period of 12 months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u184	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 1440.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u185	My analysis and opinion are similar and that is why I tabled this amendment to raise the average duration of the CECs to 10.9 months. Your 10.2-month assumption, Minister, raises two difficulties. The first is that the 2018 experience shows that the average duration is not 10.2 but 10.9 months. I therefore do not understand such a step backwards, except to think that we are moving there again towards a sub-budgeting of the envelope dedicated to the CECs. The second is that, I repeat, the CECs require time to achieve a lasting exit from unemployment. The more the employee is accompanied, the more likely he or she is to be permanently integrated into the world of work. That is why this amendment is intended to correct your initial position.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u187	CECs may benefit persons in difficulty of integration for up to 12 months. As you said, the duration of the old contracts is 10.9 months, but since the beginning of the year, the assumption is 10.2 months, which is the average duration observed. These amendments have not been discussed by the committee, but I am against them personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u188	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u189	We all make the same observation: a 12-month period is the most effective for many job seekers – I have also sent a circular to the prefects. Nevertheless, it should not be made rigid. We have planned an average duration of 12 months but, very often, the first contract lasts less long – hence the average we are today, which is lower – but this one is often renewed – hence an average of nine months, which we would like it to be extended to 10.2 months in the future. In practice, there is no limit to twelve months: it is possible to go up to twenty-four months in the context of renewals. The average we are discussing, of 9 or 10.2 months, does not express the actual duration for the person but that of the contract. In many cases, renewals will mean that the twelve months will be exceeded. That is why we wanted some flexibility: for some, the contract will be nine months, for others, twenty-four months with two successive contracts. This is very good because not all jobseekers have the same difficulties and needs. Your amendments seem to me to be somewhat super-fetal and I am not in favour of their adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u190	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1479.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u191	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 14 Against 22
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u192	I put to the vote Amendment No 1440.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u193	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 33 Number of votes cast 33 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 12 Against 21
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u194	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 1426.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u195	In the Committee on Social Affairs, you told us, Madam Minister, that you were very sensitive to all the experiments. Like you, and like a number of my colleagues, I consider economic and social innovation to be one of the keys to winning the battle of unemployment. This amendment simply proposes a new experiment, which should allow the creation and financing of structures for the professional integration of young people through sport or cultural activity. The idea is to get young people who are "out of radar", those who are not supported by the usual employment structures, such as the local mission, which is intended for young people. It seems to me that culture and sport are tools that must allow us to touch and mobilize these young people around a passion. The idea is to take them away, to embark them on an individualized journey that will make them aware of a number of things, and then to bring them into an individual path of access to employment. On this subject, many local initiatives have been launched, all over the national territory, with the support of associations, local authorities or companies. This amendment proposes to provide financial assistance from the State to all local initiatives that already exist in our territories, through the creation of an experimental fund. It would allow young people between the ages of 16 and 25 to engage in a sincere approach to vocational integration, for a period of between three and twelve months. They would develop their skills and socio-professional skills. I believe that in this area we have not tried everything, and that all local initiatives must be encouraged and structured. I therefore invite you to vote for this amendment, so that this experiment can be launched in France as early as 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u197	Of course, we are all sensitive to the reintegration of young people in situations of exclusion. There are 1.3 million young people without jobs and diplomas, and all the mechanisms to bring them back to employment are welcome. However, there are already several types of contracts, and our goal is not to create new ones. What we want is to support young people by using all the tools at our disposal, even to improve them. That is why we are increasing the credits for the youth guarantee, whose exit rate is very positive. The choice of the Government and the President of the Republic to support this mechanism is entirely legitimate. Local missions may decide, depending on the candidate's profile and the structures present on the spot, how best to guide him/her. This can be done through sports or cultural associations, but it does not seem necessary to individualise a specific budget line for this. However, I have information that can please you: the 100% inclusion plan includes a training program for coaches of professional integration through sport, led by the program Let's Dream. This programme, which will soon be launched, responds to your concern, since its objective is to train in the accompaniment towards the employment of sports coaches. They will supervise young people from the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policies far from employment. For the 3,000 beneficiaries of this programme, the aim will be to take advantage of sport to develop professional skills, prepare for the business world and turn to employment. As this amendment has not been discussed by the Committee on Finance, I will give it an unfavorable opinion on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u198	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u199	We share your view, Mr draftsman. First, it is true that we have never tried everything, when it comes to helping young people. Secondly, sport and culture can indeed be very important levers for getting young people where they are, rather than asking them to go to dedicated outlets. To this end, we have already launched several experiments. First, as part of the poverty reduction strategy, EUR 5 million will be used to finance innovative forms of economic integration. On the other hand, the Tapage experiment, aimed at young people aged 18 to 25, is already under way and we are going to amplify it. Then, as part of the call for projects "100% inclusion", we explicitly focused on sport and culture – you were invited to come and see the projects submitted, which are quite interesting. As the Special Rapporteur said, one of the first six projects selected is supported by the Agency for Education through Sport and is exactly in line with your concern. As you can see, we already have tools at our disposal, with the call for projects "100% inclusion" of the investment plan in skills and experimentation of integration through economic activity. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment, as we already have a framework and agree on the draft.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u200	Mr Viry, is your amendment retained?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u201	I withdraw it, given these explanations, and because I learned that the Agency for Education through Sport had been labeled, which is a first test gallop. But I will remain very vigilant and I will continue to have an eye on all this, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u202	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1407.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u203	This amendment by my colleague Francis Vercamer aims at mobilising the funds necessary to launch a second phase of territorial experimentation aimed at eliminating long-term unemployment. As you know, this experiment, which has been carried out over ten territories for a period of five years, aims to encourage the hiring of people who have been unemployed for more than a year in CDI. This experiment, which focuses on job creation that meets unmet needs, shows particularly encouraging results in the territories where it is carried out. While many territories have shown interest in integrating this approach, it is necessary to confirm the State's commitment to this experiment, beyond the only rise in charge of the action currently being carried out in the territories selected in 2016. However, in order to retain the experimental character of the scheme, the opening of the procedure could be limited to new territories, where the significantly degraded employment situation justifies it, for example the affected employment areas, the rural areas or the priority areas of the city's policy. That is why we propose, with this amendment, to mobilise the funds necessary to start financing this new phase of experimentation, to the tune of EUR 20 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u205	I'm not going back to the device, which you described correctly. We are all sensitive to this experiment, which actually produces results. We auditioned Laurent Grandguillaume, who is at the origin of the experiment "Territories zero long-term unemployed". We appreciated his enthusiasm for this mechanism and its concrete results. In my department, a municipal council unanimously voted to launch the study of this project on its commune and I personally asked all the presidents of the communities of communes about the opportunity to launch this experiment. However, the results of the evaluation of the scientific committee, provided for by the law on experimentation, must be consolidated at the end of 2019. It therefore seems appropriate, before extending this experiment, to have a full account of the results obtained since its launch. The final report should be submitted in 2019: if the positive results are confirmed, we will be able to ask for the extension of the experiment, beyond the ten territories concerned today. I therefore invite you, for the time being, to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, I will issue an unfavorable opinion, in my personal capacity, since this amendment has not been discussed by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u207	We all share your interest in this experiment and we continue to support its upswing. Indeed, its implementation represented 650 FTEs in 2018 and we have planned 1270 FTEs in the 2019 budget. There will therefore be a rise in 2019, with an additional €4 million. I received again yesterday the initiators of this action, which I went to see on the ground. They asked me if we could move the evaluation forward for a few months, so that we could have it next fall, not by the end of the year. We will ensure that this work is available in time to inform the review of the Finance Bill for 2020. In any case, I confirm that the device will rise in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u208	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u209	The expansion of this experiment was part of the poverty plan, so you found its results conclusive. If so, why wait so long to expand the experiment? Could you still give us some calendar elements, on the understanding that the sooner the better? Can you also tell us how many additional territories could benefit from this scheme?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u210	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 1379.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u211	The purpose of this amendment, the minister, is to question you about the situation of the Agency for Adult Vocational Training – AFPA – and I am well aware of your response to the national representation. At the very least, it seems to us guilty of taking note of this extremely important employment safeguard plan, since 1541 posts in CDI, out of a staff of 6,480, will be abolished, and 38 sites closed out of 206. We are concerned about the fate of a number of employees. We are also concerned about the withdrawal of a historic and important professional training operator, at a time when you are making this one of your priorities. Moreover, we are not certain that private initiative alone is capable of taking over. In rural areas there are issues of mobility and proximity. We know that the training market has evolved in recent years, but we also know that the state, in 2013, made a significant financial effort and we would have liked the current government to continue this effort. This amendment therefore involves a plethora of the programme "Supporting economic change and employment development", with the aim of supporting staff who are likely to be dismissed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u212	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u213	Since the opening to competition of the AFPA's business, it has been in a severely degraded financial situation that financial subsidies cannot solve. Last year, at the same time, the Minister of Labour indicated the need for a transformation plan to ensure the sustainability of the AFPA. It's not about letting this agency die. The AFPA must evolve in a new environment, and with new competitors. It is the whole purpose of the transformation plan that is engaged. The reorganization procedure must be carried out in accordance with the arrangements for consultation of staff representative bodies. This amendment was not discussed in committee. Personally, I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u215	Unfavorable opinion. I must say, Mr Vallaud, that I find your words a little cynical. You've been in charge for five years and you've let the AFPA fall year after year, without acting structurally. Between 2012 and 2016, the AFPA suffered 720 million cumulative losses, which had to be covered year after year, and 70 million losses this year again. The AFPA has proposed structural reform, which we support, as it will give the agency a future. We believe that there is a need for a public training service, focused on missions of general interest. For example, in the Skills Investment Plan, the "Prepa Competencies" are largely entrusted to the AFPA and, under the Hope program, the training of refugees. However, decentralization has also led to the competition of the AFPA, and it is true that in some regions the turnover of the AFPA agencies has fallen dramatically, which has led to the closure of some sites. There are even places, today, where there are more trainers than trainees, and others where AFPA has been de-listed, because it has not been able to respond to regional calls for proposals. The AFPA proposes a plan to give it a strategic future. While the plan provides for 1541 abolitions of posts, I would point out that there are 600 retirements and 600 new posts. There will therefore be a strong internal conversion. Our role is to support this transition, and this is what the State will do, in social dialogue and by ensuring decent conditions for employees. We want to give the AFPA a future, for the sake of public service training. To do this, we must have the courage to do what will enable him to draw his future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u216	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u217	Minister, your answer is a little easy. You know what has been done in recent years, and since 2012, for the AFPA. At the time, the entire AFPA, with its more than 6,000 employees, was under threat. You have not answered my question, which concerned the taking over of employees who will be dismissed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u218	I have before me several amendments, Nos 1757, 1070, 1225, 1774, 1776, 1775 and 1727, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1070 and 1225 are identical. I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 1757.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u219	For the first time, the 2019 Finance Bill does not provide any funding for employment houses, which reflects the total disengagement of the state that no longer wishes to support this tool in the service of territories and employment. Admittedly, the cessation of the financing of employment houses by the State was initiated several years ago but you make your decision without having engaged in a thorough consultation with the local authorities or thought about the future of the 114 employment houses still counted on 1 January 2018. This clipping falls without you having measured the usefulness of certain employment houses. Last year, Madam Minister, if you had mentioned the possibility of ending these appropriations, you had made it clear that this decision would only take place after an audit that would have allowed the state to know whether it was still necessary for it to invest in these structures. Employment houses play an essential role on the ground, in particular for the territorial planning of jobs and skills. By completely abolishing the appropriations, you condemn a number of them, if not most, to an inevitable disappearance in the long run. Of course, you replied in committee that the employment houses could find funding from local authorities, European funds or even launch calls for projects. We know, however, that the employment houses in the most favoured territories will find funding, as opposed to those in more difficult employment areas which could be threatened in the long run. MODEM had tabled an amendment last year to abound the appropriations of EUR 10.5 million by 1.5 million. Mine, in the same spirit, tends to renew the appropriations as they were voted in the original finance law, increased in 2018. This EUR 12 million represents only a drop of water within the "Work and Employment" mission, but it would be essential to mobilise and coordinate the skills present in the territory, in the service of economic growth and employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u220	I call Mr Fuchs to support Amendment No. 1070.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u221	Last year, with Mr Viry, I tabled an amendment to attest to the essential role of employment houses working as close to the ground as possible, achieving results that no other structure has ever achieved. The Multi-year Investment Plan for Skills Development is now being launched. As a result, no less than 2 million young people and unemployed people will be able to be better trained and armed to meet the new demands of the world of work and to find or find a job. It is closer to these people, to the economic actors, to the contact of the training apparatus that the bulk of the effort must be made. These are not appropriations that we propose to retain compared to last year, but the development of unique and indispensable missions for the development of employment, effective missions that no other actor, on the ground, carries out at this level of success – reinforced support from people far from employment, development, as in my constituency, of expertise in the cross-border employment sector, launch of the "My job of tomorrow" programme, which maps the job needs in the territory in the short and medium term, and many other missions that I will detail earlier on the occasion of the presentation of other amendments. This is why it is necessary, not necessarily to increase the means of employment houses, but at least to maintain them so that they can develop their activities and their missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u222	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 1225.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u223	My colleague is right, you are taking this step without much consultation since you simply received yesterday the Alliance Cities Employment network heads. You cease to finance the houses of employment that you entrust to the local authorities. However, the audits carried out revealed that employment houses work well in some places, less elsewhere. In any case, the most difficult territories need these structures. Your decisions leave us perplexed, whether it is the rationalization of the network of chambers of commerce and industry, whose role is important to the territories they support and accompany, or the merger of local missions with Pôle emploi. In short, you are removing all the structures to support employment and to develop employment in our territories. These decisions come at a time when you are launching the skills investment plan that you hope will arm no less than 2 million young people and unemployed people to face the new demands of the world of work. However, these territorial employment platforms are useful to better manage employment and skills, to carry out project engineering. In my territory, the House of Employment has accompanied us to carry out projects in the context of energy transition or sustainable development. We may need them to carry out projects such as "Long - Term Unemployed Territories". We need these structures to develop employment in our territories. That is why we are calling for the restoration of appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u224	I have before me several amendments, Nos 1774, 1776 and 1775, which can be presented together. Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u225	These amendments are aimed at the same objective. Only the amount of appropriations provided for in each item varies. The means of employment houses must be maintained to enable them to carry out their tasks. Let us take the example of increased support for people who are very far from employment. Every year, 100,000 people benefit from this programme developed by employment houses. In the English Channel, 600 people returned to work, or 600 families involved! The benefit of such a measure is far greater than that which you might receive from a reduction in credits. The development of social clauses for inclusion in public procurement is another and equally essential task. For example, the Mulhouse Employment House has, in ten years, allowed almost one million hours of integration to be carried out under public contracts. This economic approach to assisted jobs is very effective, but these missions are now at risk. Cross-border employment is another threatened mission. A job information fair, Warum nicht?, which was held in my constituency, identified 5000 job vacancies, all the way to Germany. Studies have been initiated between France and Germany on learning. With regard to the forward-looking management of employment and skills, allow me to put you up to your contradictions. In four years, we funded the training of 150 GPTEC mission managers. What do you decide today? Should we dismiss them after they've trained them? In ten years, loans from employment houses have fallen by 85.9% and half of the employment houses have been closed. Only the best performers have survived today. We must defend them by allowing them to continue their missions. I have thus tabled these three amendments which tend to maintain the appropriations, but to different amounts – 11.5 million, 10 million, 8 million, even 7 million, if we really cannot do better.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u226	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 1727 and to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u227	Some employment houses get results, others don't. It's a failure in my home. Those that work should be linked to regional or local structures when local elected officials, who are best placed to judge them, consider them useful. The abolition of State allocations was announced last year. However, following the hearings that have been conducted but also at the request of my colleagues from the majority, in particular Mrs Dominique David, who has in her territory a house of employment which plays a major role in the territorial portage of certain employment policies and the development of skills, this amendment tends to retain credits for employment houses, while continuing the movement of gradual reduction begun in 2018. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Group, that the appropriations for employment houses should be increased by EUR 5 million. I therefore call on all the authors of the other amendments to withdraw them for the benefit of the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u228	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u229	We thank you, Madam Special Rapporteur, but you cannot say that you are abounding with the line compared to last year, since you are halving its appropriations. My colleague is right. Let us take the example of the social inclusion clauses: who knows best the companies, the communities, the world of training that the houses of employment to accompany towards employment in our territories? We need proximity structures and employment houses play an essential role. I agree to withdraw my amendment, but we will support the one which tends to grant EUR 8 million in appropriations, which is probably the right level. This is in any case the one that was requested by the network heads.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u230	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u231	I am prepared to withdraw my amendments in order to retain only the one that tends to abound the EUR 8 million line. You are proposing, Madam Special Rapporteur, to limit these appropriations to 5 million, but what does 3 million represent in terms of the social and economic benefits that would result from them? It is not 3 million, but much more, that you would gain the community by supporting my amendment. I would be very proud if this amendment were adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u232	What is the Government's opinion? Five? Seven? Eight? Ten million?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u233	[[Smile]] Why not zero? Last year, I announced the abolition of the operating subsidy but not the help to employment homes. Today, the latter can contribute, within the framework of the competence investment plan, to all the aid relating to the forecast management of jobs or to the inclusion fund in employment under territorial initiatives for those which instead carry out actions towards the most difficult audiences. That being said, we have received the Alliance Villes Emploi network and I understand that many local authorities want to evolve, some of which go so far as to propose, quite rightly, to bring the missions of employment closer to the PLIEs – multi-year local plans for integration and employment –, to the local missions and to the Pôle Emploi, which would allow them to have a common vision. In order to facilitate this transition, which we had already wanted last year, I invite you to withdraw your amendments in favour of Amendment No 1727, to which the Government is in favour, in order to accompany the transition to the benefit of job seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u234	The transition to death!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u235	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u236	The Special Rapporteur's amendment saves the presidential speech somewhat, since President Macron, visiting an employment house in a very rural and difficult area in the Vosges in April, had publicly announced that the state's support for these structures, which have proved their worth, should be maintained. Our discussion seems surreal to me, given the size of the budget at stake. Even though we know the usefulness of employment houses, is it appropriate to enter into negotiations of shopkeepers to determine whether their credits are maintained at the level of 2018, namely 12 million euros, or whether they are reduced to 8 million or even 5 million? Such negotiations seem unworthy to me. That is why, Mr President, I will not withdraw my amendment. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Senate, in 2018, created an information mission on employment houses, the report of which established that there is a risk of an increased territorial divide, because some territories will have the means to finance an employment house, and others will not, which will deprive the public of the services they offer in terms of employment and training. The Senate has also shown that it is ludicrous, not to say iniquitous, to encourage the state to remain the owner of employment houses without providing them with adequate funding. That is why, I repeat, I maintain my amendment, which restores the appropriations to the tune of EUR 12 million. Without being unreasonable or inflationary, it simply aims to maintain the existing one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u237	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-09-O1056.u238	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2019: Continuation of the review of the appropriations of the "Work and employment" mission; Review of the appropriations for the "Cohesion of Territories" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
