ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the second part of the 2019 Finance Bill (No. 1255, 1302).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u2	We are dealing with the examination of defence appropriations (No 1302, Annexes 13 and 14); No 1304, Volume IV; No 1306, Volumes II, III, IV, V and VI) and to veterans, in memory and in connection with the nation (No 1302, Annex 7); No 1306, Volume I). The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, you passed the military programming law for the years 2019 to 2025. This text was a promise, a commitment: that of the renewal of our armies, that of a model of a complete and balanced army, that of the repair of years when the gap had widened between our operational commitments and the means given to our armies. The 2019 Finance Bill sends a strong message, a clear signal: the upsurge is starting and it's starting now. First of all, it's a winback budget. It puts us perfectly on the path planned: to devote 2% of our GDP to defence by 2025, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic. Overall, this draft finance bill allocates €35.9 billion to defence, i.e. 1.82 % of GDP and €1.7 billion more than last year. The military budget is therefore increasing by 5% compared to last year, when we had already increased defence appropriations by €1.8 billion. I would also like to say that it is a sincere budget, which is based only on budgetary appropriations and makes no bets on exceptional revenue. In detail, I had decided to place the human person at the heart of my action and to improve the living conditions of our military and their families in concrete terms. The PLF for 2019 provides resources for the family plan: 57 million euros compared to 23 million last year. It improves the protection of fighters, with 25,000 new bulletproof vests. He is making a major effort to ensure that our military can train and act in the best possible conditions, with an increase of almost 8% in the amount of material maintenance appropriations of €4.2 billion. The PLF for 2019 also launches a very large renewal of our equipment, sometimes too old and worn out by exhausting operational commitments, with 19.5 billion euros of equipment credits and deliveries planned for our three armies. I'm not going to mention everything but, to take some concrete examples, 2019 will mark the arrival of the first 89 Griffon tanks, a multi-mission frigate or a second A330 Phoenix. Finally, this budget leaves room for the other two structuring axes of the military programming law, the LPM: preparation for future conflicts and innovation, with 758 million euros planned for upstream studies, an increase of 5%, and additional appropriations and jobs for key intelligence, cyber and digital capabilities. Thus, of the 450 additional posts planned in the budget of the Ministry of Armed Forces for 2019, 199 will be dedicated to intelligence and 129 to cyber defence and action in the digital space. Moreover, we continue to carry out the 16 modernization projects of our ministry because these means impose responsibilities on us and every euro spent must be a useful euro. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] The PLF for 2019 is the budget of promises kept. It allows us to start the military programming law on the best possible basis. It's up to us now to ensure that we respect it and put it into reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget for the mission "Veterans, memory and ties with the nation" amounts to 2.3 billion euros, of which 2.2 billion euros for the two programs under my responsibility, 167 and 169. In the preamble, I would say that this budget is the result of a method of consultation, which I proposed to you last year when we voted on the 2018 budget, and which we applied. The consultation took place both with the veterans' associations and with the parliamentarians, as I had committed myself to it, but also, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, with the harkis, the working group set up on the issue having submitted a report to us from which some of the measures I will now present to you have been taken. It is a good budget, which maintains and confirms all the rights of veterans. No budgetary arrangements are reviewed, no tax arrangements are changed. Social welfare funds granted to ONAC – the National Office for Veterans and War Victims – are maintained at a level of €26.4 million. The means of action of the operators of the fighting world are fully renewed. The ONAC territorial grid is maintained. The Office's budget is EUR 57.6 million; the slight decrease of 400000 euros is linked to operating savings and does not in any way call into question the territorial mesh. The National Institution of Invalides continues to deploy its settlement project, focusing on the physical and psychological reconstruction of our wounded; the Ministry's grant is maintained at EUR 12 million and the INI will benefit from EUR 35 million of commitment authorisations to carry it out. The grant to the National Liberation Order increases by almost 400,000 euros to 1.7 million. Thus, this budget maintains efforts in favour of the fighting world. This budget also contains new expenditure, corresponding to new measures in favour of the fighting world. I am thinking in the first place, of course, of the extension of the combatant's map to the veterans present in Algeria between 3 July 1962 and 1 July 1964, that is to say about 50,000 people. It is an old expectation of the associations, which we satisfy this year with a budget entry of 6.6 million euros in 2019, promised to a rise in power to reach 30 million euros in full year, from 2020. The conclusions of the working group on the situation of the harkis have led to other new measures: the increase of 400 euros in the recognition allowance and the lifetime allowance, and the establishment of a solidarity scheme for the benefit of the Harki descendants. The scheme, which will run for four years, will amount to EUR 30 million. In total, in 2019, €10 million is entered to complement the measures in favour of harkis and their children. Finally, I decided to upgrade the medical expertise in the context of applications for military disability pensions. I would like to say two words about the funds devoted to the link between the army and the nation, which are not changing very much. The budget for the defence and citizenship day remains at EUR 15.3 million. The appropriations for the operation of voluntary military service, sustained by the military programming law in its current format, will now be included in the programme "Link between the nation and its army" for an amount of 2.5 million euros. The memory budget reflects the end, in a few weeks, of the centenary of the First World War. It is reduced to €16 million, compared to €28 million in 2018 – a level corresponding to an exceptional non-cycle memorial action. Of this amount, €5.5 million will finance the commemorations, bearing in mind that 2019 will focus on the seventy-fifth anniversary of the liberation of the territory. I am very pleased to announce that the monument dedicated to soldiers fallen in OPEX – external operations – expected by our young veterans and soldiers currently engaged in conflict, will be created in 2019 and will, I hope, be inaugurated in November of this year; EUR 1.2 million is allocated in this budget. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-AGIR groups as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] As you can see, the 2019 budget is dynamic; it maintains rights and creates new ones. I count on you to adopt it by a very large majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u6	Mr Cornut-Gentille, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use this debate to ask a few questions about the budget, the information of Parliament and the defence Europe. Minister, the appropriations proposed by the Government for the Defence Mission are in accordance with the Military Programming Act. No one can deny that the effort is significant. But the past tells us that all of LPM's first budget annuities were in line with planned programming, with difficulties occurring only later. This repeated experience must encourage us to be vigilant. There are indeed reasons for concern. At the hearings that I conducted, I was surprised by the caution of all the officials in the department when I asked them about the management end: no one could say that Bercy would speak. The thawing of the precautionary reserve or the coverage of the additional costs related to the OPEX are still and still are subjects that can impact the proper implementation of the appropriations. Of course, there is no longer any exceptional revenue, and we welcome it. But what about the overheating of fuel prices for the armies? What about the scope of the OPEX incremental cost provision in 2019? Is it 850 or 950 million euros? Budgetary technology has unexpected resources to circumvent the will of the legislator. Minister, can you tell us more about the end of management and, in the longer term, Bercy's commitments to the MPA? The 2019 budget validates the reform thrusts of the LPM, which I share. However, I will have to make a number of requests to you, minister, concerning the information of Parliament. No one disputes the need to reform the current MCO systems – keeping in operational condition. If the newly created DMAé – the Directorate of Aviation Maintenance – will have a difficult task, we must all wish for the success of your reform. However, incomprehensiblely, the department's departments are still reluctant to provide accurate data on the availability of materials, which would allow for an assessment of the effectiveness of the measures taken. One example: the budget documents refer to a rate of availability for attack or reconnaissance aircraft, without further distinction. But who can believe that the Tiger and Gazelle COMs are of the same nature? More transparency can only contribute to the success of the reform. The ministry must therefore stop persisting in removing difficulties. Minister, will you give instructions to your services so that comprehensive information on the availability of materials can be transmitted to Parliament? More generally, in the spring of the evaluation, I regretted the absence or vagueness of the answers to parliamentary questions. This autumn's budget is facing the same difficulties. It is all the less understandable that the majority, rightly, places a priority on budgetary sincerity, transparency and evaluation. Minister, will you personally commit yourself to better informing Parliament? Finally, both for the MCO and for innovation, new structures have been created. In addition to DMAe, I will also mention the Defence Innovation Agency. If these structures exist in law, they do not appear in the budget presentation. The architecture of the "Defence" mission has been unchanged since 2006. It is thus impossible, on the basis of the documents available to us, to determine the human and financial resources of the new Defence Innovation Agency. We can't be satisfied with this black hole. Madam Minister, would you be in favour of a new budget presentation, with indicators reflecting your own priorities? I would like to conclude my remarks with Defence Europe. Whether in terms of commitment, capacity or industry, all governments are referring to Europe to overcome national difficulties. Yours is no exception to the rule, and I am not questioning that ambition. However, I wonder about the realism of the strategy. While France is certainly the first European military power, this status is clearly not enough to trigger a real dynamic. I will give one example, modest but revealing: the MCO of equipment developed in cooperation, more specifically that of the Tiger and NH90 helicopters. Their availability is particularly low, despite their youth. Improving their availability requires agreement between Europeans on the contractual, financial and industrial approach. However, from the very confession of the Director of DMAé, we are still very far from it. More broadly, the Brexit, the new Italian government and the weakening of Mrs Merkel must prompt us to question France's ability to convince its partners. And what about the acquisition of F-35 by Belgium, the bitter competition for submarines or the risks and threats to the SCAF project, the future air combat system? [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] Each week brings its share of national divisions and retreats to Europe. Madam Minister, should these difficulties not lead us to review our copy?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u8	Mr Olivier Gaillard, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this budget opens up a lucid and ambitious seven-year course, marked by the military programming law that we examined last March. Its construction and execution are therefore of particular importance as they condition the entire implementation of the MPA. The Head of State laid the groundwork for a recapitalized defence model. As soon as the finance bill for 2018, the priority was to restore operational potential to our forces, in the short, medium and long term, with a "Defence" mission increased by 1.76 billion euros in payment appropriations. The strategic review of defence and national security has been faithfully translated into the LPM, which accurately declines its objectives by 2025: a comprehensive military model, renewed in its two components of nuclear deterrence, a rise in power in the fields of technology and cyber, and a strengthening of career attractiveness. The appropriations we are looking at today are exactly in line with this trajectory: they are expected to increase from EUR 42.55 billion to EUR 44.34 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 4.2%; Apart from the special allocation account "pensions", they amount to 35.9 billion euros, compared to 34.2 billion euros in 2018. The annual EUR 1.7 billion market is thus strictly respected. The OPEX provision will be increased to €850 million, compared with €650 million in 2018 and €450 million in previous years. For domestic missions, EUR 100 million is provided, in accordance with the provisions of the LPM. The question of inter-ministerial financing of the additional costs of external operations will therefore arise less acutely. At the end of 2018, this funding will be mobilised for an estimated amount of almost 500 million euros. The commitment authorisations show a very strong increase: from €47.1 billion in 2018, they are increased to €54.5 billion, an increase of 15.7%, reflecting the entry into the LPM, to which the Ministry of Armed Forces has rigorously prepared itself, as well as the priority given to maintaining in operational condition. I recall that the Department created, in April 2018, an Aviation Maintenance Directorate, with jurisdiction over the entire fleet and placed directly under the authority of the Chief of the Armed Staff. The mission of this Directorate is to improve the MCO of the three weapons aircraft, through internal reorganization, modernization of procedures and a profound change in the method of contracting with the industrialists. With regard to the programmes which I am monitoring in particular, it is proposed that the appropriations for the payment of the 178 "Preparation and Use of Forces" programme should increase from 8.1 billion to 8.8 billion euros, an increase of 8.9%, and those for the "Support of Defence Policy" programme, which includes the payroll, should increase from 22.8 billion euros to 23.2 billion euros. I welcome this effort, which has a dual objective: to strengthen the capabilities of military personnel in theatres, including in cyberspace and intelligence, but also to improve their quality of life and that of their families. In 2019, 450 new jobs will be funded for the Ministry of Armed Forces, mainly for the priority areas of intelligence and cyber defence. But beyond this increase, the key issues are to ensure the recruitment and retention of staff, in line with needs. We are grateful to you, Madam Minister, for taking full measure of this issue as soon as you take up your duties. In particular, the increasing difficulties of the Ministry of Armed Forces in recruiting and retaining highly specialized personnel are a reality that requires a response, failing which we would face delays in the conduct of projects set out in military programming legislation. Through the hearings that I was able to conduct, I was able to see a shared awareness and the mobilization of the entire staff and the department: the acceleration of the implementation of modern human resources management tools is very encouraging. Similarly, because digital is a societal revolution, barracks are beginning to make up for it. It is an essential lever of loyalty. The family plan, which you launched at the end of 2017 is a priority of the ministry. With significant resources – 300 million euros over the next five years – it aims to improve the consideration of operational absences and mobility, and to develop the social support of the ministry's staff. I would like, Madam Minister, to know what measures this plan and the entry into the LPM will take, which members will be able to see in their daily lives in 2019. Finally, could you please provide us with a tentative schedule to address the problem of housing infrastructure maintenance, in order to reach the target of quality accommodation for all non-commissioned members and non-commissioned officers? In any case, because an army cannot recapitalize without solid human pillars, I will pay particular attention to mobilizing the necessary resources for that purpose. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In any event, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the appropriations for the Defence Mission for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u10	I call Mr Fabien Roussel, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u11	Mr. President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, many veterans and members of their families look forward to the measures that will be taken in your budget. First, they have been fighting, with their representatives, for years to obtain the rights to reparation that they are entitled to be recognized, for them or their spouse, after having been sent to the fire. There are not two kinds of veterans, the recognized and the unrecognized: all those who have suffered the horrors of war are entitled to reparation, and it is impossible to separate them. In addition, many are waiting for this budget because, like all the French, they suffer significant loss of purchasing power with, for example, an increase in the CSG, that of the mutuals or that of the taxes on petrol and diesel. You will thus understand that the increase in the military disability pension or the benefit of an additional half share in the calculation of taxes for widows who have lost their husbands are so much expected. We also know that the natural evolution of the number of beneficiaries – and I take this opportunity to pay tribute to all those who have left us since last year – also allows, according to your ministry, an average budgetary margin of EUR 100 million per year. This year again, however, the budget before us is falling, at EUR 159 million less than last year. Since 2012, the war veterans' budget has lost 680 million euros! We could have, by keeping this sum, responded to so many requests. Since last year, you have convened a commission that has worked on all these requests, and the fighting world has welcomed the constructive dialogue that has taken place there. You have finally been able to retain this old claim, which we have defended here, to assign the combatant's card to the soldiers who were present in North Africa from July 1962 to July 1964. You have also drawn up, in Article 73, a plan in favour of the harkis, which includes an increase of 400 euros in the existing allocations and the establishment of a solidarity fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u13	I would like to draw your attention to this point: there is concern about the composition of the committee, which will examine these highly sensitive dossiers on a case-by-case basis. I would also like to draw your attention to the amount of the two adjusted allowances in Article 73: as currently drafted, they will no longer be indexed to inflation and will therefore stagnate in the years to come; We need to correct that. The last measure of your budget is the annual allocation for medical expertise expenditures. If all this goes in the right direction, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we regret, along with other Members, that certain measures are still not being met. This would have allowed us to schedule the re-evaluation of the pension point this year and not wait until 2020 or 2021 as you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u14	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u15	We could also have met the demand of the surviving spouses of the great war invalids, who are only a thousand now waiting for their situation to be better taken into account. This is even the case for widows who lost their husbands, a veteran and disappeared before the age of seventy-four, who cannot benefit from the tax half-share. I would remind you that it is not a tax advantage that would have been granted to them but a right to compensation, which they are deprived of because of this age limit. Finally, there are these seventy-four harkis who are still wondering about the case-by-case study you promised. Where are we? Finally, there is a growing topic: memory politics. However, with this budget falling, the resources allocated to memory policy are decreasing. And yet, on the contrary, they should be maintained. Several associations have been moved to see, in recent times, the trivialization of the Nazi emblems, the rise of nationalisms and, more recently, the heinous crimes committed against people because of the colour of their skin or their religious beliefs. These associations rightly believe that they can, at their level, contribute to the fight against these crimes and against the rise of a contemporary form of Nazism. They call for close work with national education to ensure that every student in our schools can, at least once in school, visit a place of memory in connection with the deadly wars of the 20th century. On all these points, amendments have been tabled. Unfortunately, they were all rejected by the majority when the text was discussed in the Finance Committee. We hope that today's debate will make it possible for some of them to be adopted. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] With this in mind, and given the current state of the budget for the "Veterans, Memory and Connections with the Nation" mission, which remains halfway to what the fighting world has long expected, in my personal capacity, I will not vote for or against.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u16	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u17	Mr Didier Quentin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u18	Mr President, the Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, "it is only when the national character and the habit of war support each other in constant interaction that a people can hope to hold a solid position in the world." This quotation from Clausewitz, in which I will associate the words of General de Gaulle, according to which "defence [...] has always been the basis of politics", reminds us how the ability of France to make its voice heard is based on two pillars: diplomacy and defence. Of course, we cannot wish France to maintain the habit of war, but at the very least it should be prepared for the multiple threats posed by our strategic environment in the five environments: land, air, sea, space and cyber. However, you rightly recalled, minister, the challenge is great. In the face of these threats, of exceptional magnitude and diversity, you are presenting us with ways that you also describe as exceptional. It must be acknowledged that with current budgetary constraints, the defence effort we are making for 2019 is substantial. However, Clausewitz said: "The whole difficulty is to remain faithful in the execution to the principles that we have set ourselves. Your first budget for the implementation of the military programming law is faithful and sincere, Minister, we take note with satisfaction of it; It will also be necessary for the future to be so. I'm going back to the exceptional means you're proposing for defence. It seems useful to recall that while these means are exceptional for our country, in the present situation, on a global scale, they are actually rather modest. I am particularly concerned about China's rise in military power, in which some want to see a peaceful, non-imperial power. However, it must be noted that China places its pawns, even though it is a bit of a push on ours. I am thinking in particular of the formidable military base built in Djibouti, which could accommodate up to 10,000 military personnel, while we only have 1350 in this highly strategic area for our supplies, the Bab-el-Mandeb Strait. China invests heavily, with a long-term strategy: the achievement of its full military model is set for 2049. It invests in areas where we are particularly vulnerable, such as cyberspace or outer space, but also, perhaps more banal, maritime space. China has already built, in just four years, as many warships as our national navy owns. France has the second largest exclusive economic zone in the world, but it does not afford itself the means to control it. With the military programming law, we will simply return to the presence on the seas that was ours in the early 1980s, when the contestation of these areas has only increased. The increase in conflict at sea could become exponential in the coming decades. For the moment, we seem to consider this to be a secondary issue in relation to other emergencies, but if, in ten or twenty years, the rival powers come to challenge our maritime rights by force, it will be too late to react; It is now that the answer must be prepared. I hear we're starting studies on the future carrier. It's a good thing, but we should go further. However, the defence budget is already drawn between multiple requirements. Given the many challenges we face, we must be realistic: this budget is not the critical size that would allow us to invest in everything alone. That is why we must cooperate with our European partners; You have pointed out this on several occasions, Madam Minister, and I am firmly convinced of it. In this area, which is at the heart of the sovereignty of States, nothing is easy. You underline the progress of defence Europe, but I note that we have not yet made too much progress in taking into account the European Union's commitment to the Sahel. Madam Minister, in the context of Franco-German cooperation, you are putting forward structural projects, such as the air combat system of the future – the SCAF – or the tank of the future, but recent news reminds us, if it were still necessary, how far our interests are distant in terms of arms exports, which are vital for our industrialists. What's the point of producing a fighter plane with Germany if we can't sell it? European orders are not enough. Moreover, with Belgium's choice of the F-35, we see that European purchases are far from being exclusively directed towards European supply. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] I will therefore conclude my remarks by asking you, Madam Minister, a question which will complement that of my colleague François Cornut-Gentille: where are you in your negotiations with your German counterpart on the rules for the export of arms?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u19	Mrs Frédérique Lardet, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is with pleasure that I present to you again the appropriations for Program 144 "Environment and Prospective Defence Policy", the purpose of which is to enlighten the present and to prepare for the future. The effort begun in the 2018 budget is intensifying with the fulfilment of the ambitions of the military programming law that we adopted this year. The appropriations entered in the PLF for 2019 are in fact EUR 1.47 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 6%, and EUR 1.6 billion in commitment authorisations, an increase of 13%. Intelligence is still one of the priorities of this budget: the appropriations allocated to it increase significantly, to a proportion of 16%, to reach 343 million euros. The aim is to increase the capacity of the DGSE and DRSD – the Directorate-General for External Security and the Directorate for Defence Intelligence and Security – in order to continue their technical upgrading and the increase of their staff. I come to the upstream studies, which are the heart of this programme. The provisions of the MPA have been implemented. The path to EUR 1 billion by 2022 has indeed been set, as we all wanted, since the appropriations for upstream studies amount to EUR 758 million in payment appropriations and EUR 920 million in commitment authorisations. This significant upscaling of appropriations for upstream studies, which amounts to 21%, would in itself be a reason to rejoice. Beyond that, it is accompanied, if not a revolution, by at least a profound change in the management of these studies and in the division of labour within the Directorate-General for Armaments, DGA. I concluded my speech last year with a phrase from Mark Twain: "They didn't know it was impossible, so they did. Well, yes, you did, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u21	The modesty of the majority is remarkable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u22	The announced reform of the DGA is underway and the Department's Defence Innovation Agency was created in early September. Directly linked to the Delegate-General for Armaments and with a Directorate based on a collegial steering committee, the Agency will manage the budgets of the sub-actions "Advance Studies" and "Management of the means and grants" of the 144 programme as well as of the appropriations of the 191 "Dual Research (civil and military)" programme, i.e. a total of 1.2 billion euros in payment appropriations and 1.4 billion euros in commitment authorisations. The Agency's workforce will eventually be about 100 people, mostly from the DGA, the Armed Forces Staff and the General Secretariat for Administration. The Agency has the opening for a word. It wants to do this: to have programmes and research dialogue in order to avoid the "sil hostage", detrimental to the synergy and soil of rigidities and duplications; establish a single window, internal and external, focused on the needs of the end user and open to ideas coming from the field, researchers, start-ups, companies; shorten cycles; take calculated risks; putting in place new contracting tools for more flexibility in procurement; Tracking innovation of use, incremental or breaking, wherever it is located; grid the territory by naming referents; support innovations by maintaining existing devices while reflecting on their evolution; work to promote the results of innovation for the benefit of the Ministry; allow experimentation, in particular through the Innovation défense lab, which is being created. However, the long cycles inherent in weapons programs and in the search for low maturity are not forgotten: the Agency will ensure that they can integrate innovations in the course of their development. With the transfer of the funds allocated to their grant, the Defence Innovation Agency also becomes responsible for relations with ONERA – the National Office for Aerospace Studies and Research –, the French-German Institute for Research in Saint-Louis and the engineering schools under the supervision of DGA. This is a shared opportunity: research institutes and schools will have a unique interlocutor to present their ideas and skills; For its part, the Agency will have leading instruments from which innovation can emerge. One of my interlocutors said: "Innovation is a violent act; We'll have to break the conservatism. We no longer have a choice: tomorrow's challenges are enormous, whether it's artificial intelligence, cyber or robotics. We must take this into account today, otherwise we will be out of date, as we have been in the case of drones, for example, whose use and development had not been identified as a priority. It is necessary not only for our strength and operational efficiency, but also for our national and European industry. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Together with the Defence Innovation Agency, we have a flexible and responsive instrument that I hope we can make the best use of. Personally, I believe in it. All the interlocutors I have met in recent months are plebisciteing its creation and expecting a lot of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u23	Mr Claude de Ganay, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u24	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Chairman of the National Defence and Armed Forces Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I will only briefly mention the amounts allocated to joint support and logistics in the 2019 Finance Bill. These credits, it must be recognized, are up to the ambitions set out in the military programming law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u25	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u26	... with a 7% increase in non-Title II payment appropriations compared to last year. Few rapporteurs will be able to say the same about their programmes. However, it should be stressed that a substantial part of this increase – EUR 200 million – is allocated to the financing of the additional costs of external and internal operations. If this effort of "sincerization" is necessary, it must be noted that it will not benefit our soldiers. As you know, minister, your actions will be judged not on the numbers announced but on the fulfilment of your promise to improve the soldier's daily life. As such, there is a sense of impatience among the civilian and military personnel of the armed forces, as the practical implementation of the renovation of housing and the family plan is not yet complete. On the way, the Government's promises are likely to be disappointed, and the challenges of attracting and retaining our armies may not be met. We cannot afford such an outcome. I would like to raise a specific subject: the outsourcing of support. For several years, it has been developing strongly and could increase further in the areas of catering and clothing. However, the current procedure suffers from several dysfunctions, which should be addressed: the fragility of the legal framework, the shortcomings of internal and external control, and the persistence of certain practices of agreement between prescribing authorities and candidates, particularly in the field of the MCO of paratroopers. At this stage, my findings remain partial. They should be further developed in the context of a fact-finding mission, which I hope will be established. Without limiting itself to outsourcing, this mission could even be extended to other areas of support where our military have high expectations, such as clothing, housing, infrastructure or food. More broadly, "repatrimonialize" – forgive me the term – certain capabilities would allow our armies to regain their own capabilities. In terms of parliamentary oversight, it would be appropriate to identify a budgetary officer responsible for reporting on this part of the support in a comprehensive manner. Moreover, I regret that the conditions under which this control is carried out are not always optimal. The deadlines for the actual delivery of the documents requested from the departments of the ministry, the numerous revivals carried out by the services of the Assembly, the mismatch between the documents delivered and the expression of the needs are all problems which seem to be part of an old world of which I am told that it is buried... I would like to end on a positive note, Madam Minister, by welcoming the work of a service that remains relatively unknown: that of the essences of the armies. Through his oil support activity, he is one of the guarantors of the autonomy of the armed forces. The SEA is a service for which France can legitimately feel a sense of pride. I will illustrate this with two examples. In 2013, Operation Serval could not have been possible without the reactivity of oil support, which allows this capacity to enter first in a theatre. Currently, in a completely different context, the SEA provides part of the supply for the NATO exercise – the North Atlantic Treaty Organization – taking place in Norway. That is to say, how respected he is by our allies, in whose eyes he is a model. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would therefore like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the staff of the SEA, who take considerable risks to supply our armies as close as possible to the battlefield. However, I would like to express my concern about the over-commitment of this service. In seven years, together with the increase in the level of engagement of our armies, the SEA has lost more than 12% of its staff. The LPM, which foresees the creation of only fifteen personnel by the end of the quinquennium, therefore seems to be making a misdiagnosing on this point. I hope that it will not take a serious supply disruption to realize that the efforts required for this service have been far too high. Also, I ask you, do not forget the SEA; Give him the means to continue his decisive action with our armies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u27	Mr Thomas Gassilloud, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u28	[[Ms. Josy Poueyto applauds]] Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Mr President of the National Defence Committee, ladies and gentlemen, for the second year in a row, it is my responsibility to inform you of my opinion on the Army's appropriations, this time as part of the 2019 Finance Bill. This year again, I have closely associated with my work our colleague Sereine Mauborgne, Member of Parliament for Var, whom I thank for her energetic and ongoing involvement. As you know, the army intervenes in direct contact with populations and combat zones, in snow, mud or sand, in order to secure the territories in the long term. It has half of the men and women in uniform in the Ministry of Armed Forces and unfortunately bears the bulk of the casualties in combat. When I speak to you, I therefore have a thought for all those who are committed to our collective security, especially for our young compatriots who are currently fighting without fail in the Malian desert, at a temperature of 50 degrees, with loads of more than 40 kilos on their backs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u29	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u30	The 2019 budget is the first of the 2019-2025 MPL, and I am pleased to inform you that it is fully compliant with the programming. All the resources devoted to the army, including personnel costs, are on the rise, reaching €8.6 billion in payment appropriations and €9.7 billion in commitment authorizations. This budget will therefore have a very concrete impact in 2019, with the delivery of 7600 HK416F assault rifles, 1650 combatant parachute sets, 430 4x4 tactical vehicles – we know how much this last delivery was expected, since the previous vehicles, the P4, have been in service for almost forty years. Each soldier in operation will also be equipped next year with a latest-generation bulletproof vest, an F3 lattice delaying the flame, new ballistic goggles and new combat gloves. Finally, having identified the acceleration of the SCORPION programme – synergy of contact reinforced by versatility and infovalorisation –, an alliance between high technology and hardiness, as a priority in our report for last year's opinion, we look forward to the arrival of the first 89 Griffon tanks, which will make 2019 the first year of SCORPION. This budget clearly reflects a rise in power and is up to man. We owe it to the commitments of the President of the Republic, to the work of the national representation, but also and above all, Madam Minister, to your strong involvement; I have seen it during each of our common movements over the last few months, whether in Tessalit in Mali, in Mourmelon-le-Grand with the President of the Republic, in Luc in the Var, in Bruz for the announcement of the land MCO plan or last month in Bron in the Rhône and Chad. In accordance with tradition, we have also taken advantage of the budget to carry out thematic work, by deepening the operational preparation of the ground forces this year through eleven hearings and five trips. Why operational readiness? Because feedback shows that current operations are harder and more complex. The information mission that I had the honour of leading at the beginning of the year with our colleague Olivier Becht has clearly shown this: even with the support of all technologies, it is on man that many still rest. We quickly made a simple but paradoxical observation: while the tools of operational readiness have never been so effective, our soldiers' level of training has fallen in 2015. The deployment of the Sentinel Force, starting in 2015, is a leading cause, as it has significantly reduced the time available for unit training. At the same time, the rise of the ground task force from 66,000 to 77,000 troops called for an effort of 45,000 recruits in three years. This massive recruitment campaign mobilized the army's infrastructure, equipment and experienced cadres, making them less available for the deepening of inter-armed know-how. Also, in 2015 and 2016, the army consumed part of its human capital and was forced to focus excessive operational readiness on final condition, i.e. on preparation for a particular war rather than war in general. In 2017 and 2018, a reinvestment was undertaken. In 2019, the full success of the recovery of operational readiness will require a twofold challenge: the availability of equipment and the availability of men. We have already discussed a great deal about the method and means of ensuring the availability of materials, and we are counting very much, Madam Minister, on the effects of your ambitious plans for the MCO. You have also just announced an 8% increase in the budget for equipment maintenance in 2019. The second challenge, the availability of men, requires us to ensure that sufficient time is devoted to operational readiness. Finally, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have together built a man-made LPM, because it is quite normal for the nation to commit itself to those who are willing to pay the price of blood to serve it. This approach is not only fair but also effective, the effort being beneficial only if the soldiers receiving training remain long enough to develop skills, accumulate experience and value it in operation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] As you can see, there are still many challenges. That is why we must be aware of our responsibility but also proud of this 2019 budget, in line with the programming. I therefore have the pleasure, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to deliver an opinion in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u31	Mr Jacques Marilossian, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, since 1991, military programming laws have been distinguished by measures to reduce numbers and limit equipment. The military programming law 2019-2025 has set the stage for the upsurge of our country. The goal of sustainable national and European strategic autonomy, known as the 2030 ambition, has been affirmed. The programme for the preparation of the naval forces, with more than EUR 5.3 billion in commitment authorisations and 2.4 billion in payment appropriations – 191 % and 8 % more than in 2017 respectively – reflects the following priorities: the family plan, dedicated to military and civilian personnel; the accelerated renewal of our operational capabilities; the national and European strategic autonomy, in which France will be at the heart of the coalitions; permanent innovation, which must ensure the operational and technological superiority of our armies in the face of future challenges. The law of military programming paves the way for a very important programme of rearmament of the national navy that will strengthen our military capabilities, hitherto insufficient, and modernize our armed forces. The appropriations entered in the 2019 Finance Bill are in line with this. It is an indisputable marker of the rise in power of our armies. Of course, to achieve this, Minister, rigorous monitoring of the implementation of Budget 2019 will be essential. On our military capabilities, certain observations are indeed necessary: a significant imbalance persists between the resources and activities of our naval forces; temporary reductions in capacity, which have occurred or are foreseeable, are the result of very insufficient past investment; infrastructure is still too often not compliant; France, we must know, is mobilized on all the oceans, and overactivity affects all the components of the national navy. But the credits for 2019 are well in line with an ambition to modernize our naval forces. The military programming law takes into account the growth in funding requirements, in particular for the maintenance of the Navy's operational condition, as commitment authorizations increase from €2 billion to €4.7 billion. That said, the modernization of our naval forces must be not only capacitive but also human. The real challenge of human resources is to retain recruits, with a new policy of compensation for sailors, including the upgrading of operational activities. At the Euronaval trade fair, Madam Minister, you announced the launch of an 18-month study phase for the construction of a new aircraft carrier. You know how happy I am. I would now like to refer to the mine war. Russia and China are developing modern mines, with the aim of reaffirming their power, while the Yemeni Houthis, for example, manufacture rustic mines from refrigerators. If France does not develop new mines, the military programming law plans to renew our mine war capabilities. To cope with new deployments, a major technological leap is needed. The programme of the anti-mine control system of the future – SLAMF – is based on the future command of several drone modules for this type of war; It will have to draw on the innovations of the Franco-British MMCM programme for the fight against maritime mines, which proposes a system of systems. With regard to the SLAMF programme, however, I will call for vigilance on several points. First of all, the timetable, set by the military programming law, seems to me to be very constrained. On the other hand, faced with the option of ROV remote-controlled vehicles – Remotely Operated Vehicles – there are alternatives, mine killer type, which appear simpler, more proven and more robust. Let's remember that efficiency and sophistication are not always good at cleaning up! At European level, industrial cooperation could take place around the parent buildings, with Belgians and Dutch, while avoiding disputes between French industrialists. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I believe that France must show boldness and vigilance: boldness through strong European cooperation, which will enable us to build a true Europe of naval defence, autonomous of and complementary to that of NATO; vigilance, because the current state of our naval forces is the result of years of underinvestment, themselves following previous laws of military programming. I remember a sentence from Seneca: "When one does not know to which port one navigates, no wind is the right one. France, it seems to me, knows today in which direction it sails. I therefore express a favourable opinion on the national navy budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u33	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, mastering the third dimension is a prerequisite for any manifestation of military power. Without control of the sky, it is impossible to deploy serene forces on land, as well as to take ships out of ports; without control of the sky, it is inconceivable to conduct a high-intensity operation or to weigh within an international coalition; Without control of the sky, it is almost finished from the entrance first. At a time when it is up to me to address the resources allocated to the air force in the 2019 Finance Bill, this is the only question we need to answer: are we armed to control the third dimension? Let's be honest, there are reasons to hope. Indeed, after a few years marked by some morosity, the LPM 2019-2025 confirms the rise of the air force. Without going into details, 2018 was marked by the delivery to the forces of the first Airbus A330 MRTT – multi-role refuelling and transport aircraft – long awaited. The A400Ms are rising in power, as well as the C-130Js, while Rafale's deliveries resume and the Cognac base has hosted the first PC-21s, essential for the modernization of the training of hunting crews. In 2019, new deliveries are expected, as well as future orders. With regard to Programme 178, the appropriations for Action 4 represent EUR 4.327 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 2.319 billion in payment appropriations, representing increases of 66.5% and 9.2% respectively. The significant increase in commitment authorizations is mainly due to the use of major multi-year contracts for the scheduled maintenance of equipment, in line with the philosophy of the new Aviation Maintenance Directorate. The LPM therefore sets an interesting course. For the opposition member I am, it is therefore a matter of approaching the application of this new programming with confidence but also vigilance. I did not disapprove, in fact, of the lack of programming – let us think of helicopters, real poor parents of the LPM, or even the "pods", still in insufficient numbers. I also remain attentive to the uncertainties that persist. Will the fiscal trajectory be maintained? Will the availability of materials improve enough to enable us to make full use of our capabilities? Believe me, I wish. In the coming years, I will therefore be paying attention to the application of programming, and I have no doubt that my colleagues, on all sides, will show the same concern. [[Laughs and applause]] In this context, I can only draw your attention, Madam Minister, to the fact that this year your services appeared to be suffering from a strange syndrome, as several of my colleagues have mentioned: acute "buffering". It is indeed regrettable that many of the replies sent to the budget rapporteurs are now classified, especially when they include the content of the budget documents. Some of them may also be most evanescent. If I have to, the minister I am...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u35	Not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u36	It will come!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u37	I'm sorry! The doctor whom I am, always benevolent, is ready to prescribe, if necessary, a simple remedy, based on the use of Article 9 of the MPA, giving the budget rapporteurs the power to carry out any necessary investigations, on-site and on-site, in order to monitor the implementation of the programming. In conclusion, I will briefly address the challenges facing strategic and tactical aviation, to which I have devoted the thematic part of my report. We all know the fragility of aeromobility: our park is incomplete; the availability of aircraft is not satisfactory; charter calls into question our sovereignty at the same time as it poses a problem with the safety of our personnel in theatres; training times for younger people are increasing; experienced staff are exhausted and tempted to respond to the private call. As a result, the upsurge in military air transport raises a number of important issues. The capacity transition will first have to be finely piloted. This means not squandering the end of life of the Transalls and supporting the rise of the new fleets, ensuring that the infrastructure necessary for their deployment is provided and ensuring the performance of their tactical capabilities. In addition, in order to build a coherent supply of capacity, we will need to deepen the companies of mutualization and cooperation with our allies. The Franco-German squadron of C-130J of Évreux is one of them, but I am also thinking of using the means of our allies through bilateral agreements. The presence of three CH-47 British helicopters in the Sahel demonstrates the importance of these partnerships. Beyond this, France must support the rise of the European Air Transport Command, which probably embodies a model for defence Europe and even for Europe at large. Finally, how can we not mention the enormous challenge of human resources? Tomorrow it will be necessary to recruit everything, to train quickly – thanks to the simulation, which must be strengthened – and to loyalty. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I know how to count, Madam Minister, on your full commitment to our forces. Be assured that you will be able to count on the careful and attentive support of the opposition, at the service of France's weapons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u38	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Mr Chairman of the Defence Committee, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of having been instructed by the Defence Committee to issue an opinion on the appropriations entered in programme 146 of the 2019 Finance Bill, i.e. those relating to deterrence and the equipment of the forces. It might as well be quite simple to say: the budget for 2019 is a good budget, which applies a good LPM to the letter. The figures are sufficient to convince itself of this: they are in sharp growth, 6.3% for payment appropriations, which reach almost EUR 11 billion, and 5.9% for commitment authorisations, which are set at EUR 14.5 billion. If we read these appropriations to the prism of the financial aggregates of the LPM, and not only through the prism of the budget nomenclature, the growth is even clearer: more than 29% in commitment authorisations, i.e. 29,5 billion euros, and more than 7% in payment appropriations, i.e. 19,5 billion euros. In short, from a budgetary point of view, the PLF for 2019 provides funding for the powerful rearming effort set by the LPM. The horizon will be clear, Madam Minister, when the management of the 2018 fiscal year is complete. Of course, it is important not to undermine the effort planned for 2019 by negative baseline effects. Ways must also be found to resolve certain problems, such as the replacement of a destroyed Caracal. You cling to it, we know it; Know that you can count on our vigilance in support of your diligence. Thus, in the rearmament effort envisaged by the LPM, the State takes its full part and fulfils its commitments. It remains for its partners to do so as well. I think, on the one hand, of the industrialists: any calendar or financial slippage in the programmes would be detrimental. [[Smile]] I think, on the other hand, of our allies. The LPM relies heavily on European cooperation to modernise our capabilities, both by political choice and for reasons of economy. This applies, for example, to the replacement of the Leclerc with the Main Ground Combat System, the tank of the future, or the Rafale with the SCAF system, or the future air combat system, the SCAF. Similarly, our war capabilities must be renewed in cooperation with the British. Nevertheless, cooperation is like marriage, according to Oscar Wilde's well-known aphorism: "it's solving two of the problems that we wouldn't have had on our own." Of course, high-level political commitments have been made for SCAF and MGCS. But we still need to move from statements to concrete work. However, there are worrying signs of setting problems, particularly for the SCAF: despite the advances made by the DGA, the German authorities show reluctance. In practice, French and German industrialists still do not have the administrative framework to work together with their research offices, if only to exchange information. This set-up deserves further vigilance as Franco-German cooperation presents risks of serious drying-up, the signs of which are clear. Thus, Germany chose an Israeli missile rather than a Franco-German missile for the Tiger Mark 3. Similarly, it resolutely deepens NATO's concept of a framework nation, leading it to unite the capabilities of seventeen less powerful states around it, within the "Otanian" framework. Opportunities for cooperation are therefore likely to become more rare, especially since, in general, political developments in Europe do not bring optimism. In my view, there are therefore three emergencies: first, to quickly lay down very concrete milestones for Franco-German cooperation; to involve the United Kingdom as much as possible in European cooperation support mechanisms, the irony of history having wanted them to be created at the very moment when Europe's second military power leaves the Union; to take advantage of the annual reviews of permanent structured cooperation to promote the full, faithful and proactive implementation of the commitments entered into under this heading. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] That, Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, is the result of my work on the appropriations entered in programme 146, on which I have a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u40	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, their names were Monan Diop, Augustin Sadio, Goudiaby Bakary, Kondé Mamadou and Seck Diégane. These names are those of soldiers of the 25th regiment of Senegalese tirailers, executed in June 1940 by the SS Totenkopf division of the Nazi army, en route to Lyon. Separated from the whites, machine-gunned, crushed under the caterpillars of the tanks because they were black, these soldiers all died for France. Their bodies lie in the national necropolis of the Senegalese tata of Chasselay, north of Lyon, where I visited a few weeks ago. There are 194 bodies of tirailers and those of two legionnaires who died for France, strongly embodying the sentence of Léopold Sédar Senghor, who adorned the memorial of the Black army of Fréjus: "By the way, they fell fraternally united so that you would remain French. » From the blue division and its glorious battles of Bazeilles, in the Ardennes, to the mud of the Verdun trenches and then to the liberation of Corsica and Provence, those who make up the black army played an essential role in the defence of France. In a few days, the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, should gather in front of the monument to the heroes of the Black Army of Reims. We must collectively assess the importance of such an act when, too often, we have not been up to date in commemorating the memory of the tirailers. Do not see in my words any form of repentance. It is simply a matter of highlighting a sometimes forgotten aspect of national memory and stressing the importance of its transmission. The transmission of national memory, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is what I would like to talk about this morning. For the draft budget submitted to us does not call for any particular criticism, on the contrary: to extend the benefit of the combatant's card to the French soldiers deployed in Algeria between 1962 and 1964, which we all wanted on these benches and which you, Geneviève Darrieussecq, obtained; to upgrade the medical expertise carried out for the investigation of military disability pension files; setting up an action plan for harkis and their families; €35 million to enable the National Invalids Institution to be the actor everyone expected in the management of post-traumatic syndrome; I mean, a real post-role four. I do not forget the monument dedicated to the memory of our dead in external operations that will be inaugurated this year. There are therefore many reasons for satisfaction. The Finance Bill strengthens existing recognition and reparation rights, and reflects the decisions you have made following the broad consultation with the fighting world. Allow me to point out, minister, how much this method has been appreciated. That's why I felt it important to focus on the challenge of transmitting combat memory. The number of survivors of the major conflicts of the twentieth century is decreasing. What about ten years from now? Representatives of the fighting world associations know that they will need to find ways to preserve and showcase their heritage and memory. I am quite in favour, for my part, of setting up a common house that would house all these memories. I use the plural on purpose because what we must preserve is the diversity of the fighting memory, reflecting the variety of commitments, fighting and suffering. This common house, some of our elders call it their vows. Let us accompany them in this movement: offices, foundations and associations, all the fanions behind the same flag. Then, in order to strengthen the link between the nation and its army, we need to continue the reconstruction of the national necropolises and the modernization of the high places of national memory. The national necropolises mainly welcome the bodies of young French, children of France who sacrificed themselves for it. In the face of the sacrifice of youth, no one can remain indifferent. We must not forget the museums of the armies, including the museums of arms, which are less well known but possess collections of exceptional wealth. These places are essential relays for transmitting memory, raising awareness of defence issues among our fellow citizens, especially young people, and encouraging many vocations. Memory of conflicts, youth... How can we not approach the urgent need to reinforce the keen interest of young people, of all young people, in memory? There is also a national cohesion issue. How many of those who sometimes feel that they are not fully part of the national community are instantly connected to it by learning that one of their forefathers shed no less red blood than the others to defend it? There is no doubt that there is a way forward for the future universal national service. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] In conclusion, allow me to greet the high representatives of the fighting world who are listening to us today. It is also on their behalf that the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has issued an opinion in favour of the adoption of the appropriations for this mission and that it intends to give back to the fighting memory its only address: France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u42	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Josy Poueyto, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u43	Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to begin by thanking you for your commitment. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes the transcription in this budget of the commitments made in the military programming law voted this year. A major effort is to devote an additional EUR 1.7 billion to our armies; Our group hopes that it will irrigate our forces as close as possible to our military and civilian personnel. With regard to the mission "Veterans Fighters, Memory and Relations with the Nation", I would like to thank the Secretary of State and our colleague Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer, draftsman of the Defence Committee's opinion, for their action this year, which allowed the granting of the combatant's card to soldiers deployed in Algeria between 1962 and 1964, and to implement an action plan for harkis mobilising almost 10 million euros. Let me turn to the issue of gender balance and equality in the national defence sector. The LPM's commitment brings new developments in this area, whether with the activation of the family plan, with €57 million in 2019, or with the transition to Act II of mixedness in the armies, which is scheduled to be launched next spring. Of course, our armies are getting one of the best rates of feminization in the world, and we note with satisfaction that the finance bill includes a series of efforts to promote professional equality and combat discrimination, but we still have some progress to make. I know, Madam Minister of Armies, that you are particularly interested in this subject. Allow me to take this opportunity to welcome your presence in this Government, in a regal post, historically occupied by men, alongside another woman, in charge of a State Secretariat, Geneviève Darrieussecq. While the Fifth Republic has had twenty-four ministers of defence, only three women, including yourself, have been called to this responsibility. The world is changing! But he doesn't change on his own. The MODEM group will always be at your side to promote this cultural change, being well aware that the effort must be directed at the whole social body, which corresponds to what is being undertaken. Among the advances in favour of gender equality and diversity are article 12 of the MPA, which corrects old imbalances concerning the beneficiaries of leave to raise a child. But it will also be necessary, Madam Minister, for a pregnancy to be no longer guilty, in the sense that the one-time and legitimate absence of a future mother, not replaced by her position, is sometimes such as to penalize the organization of a team. We will also need to act and support motivated women to exercise the highest responsibilities and to focus on the particular case of the War School, where the rate of feminization remains low. We point out that the Ministry of Armed Forces has set an ambitious goal of doubling, at the end of the implementation of the LPM, the proportion of women among general officers. More broadly, from the perspective of the work ahead, let us commit ourselves to studying the eighteen recommendations of the recent information report on women and the armed forces, drawn up by our colleagues Bérangère Couillard and Bénédicte Taurine on behalf of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women of the National Assembly. Let us also note that the forthcoming conclusions of the fact-finding mission on the evaluation of anti-discrimination mechanisms in the armed forces, set up by the Defence Committee, in which I am participating, of which our colleagues Bastien Lachaud and Christophe Lejeune are the co-rapporteurs, will allow us to discuss this issue again. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] In a context of multiple challenges, we renew our support, driven by an open and constructive state of mind. We share the objective of responding, step by step, effectively, to the evolving needs of our armed forces. Year I of this LPM stamped "male" – and "female" – could we add – already confirms this unambiguously in its first budget application. For all these reasons, the MODEM Group will vote for the Defence and Veterans Affairs, Memory and Nation Relations missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u44	The next speaker is Mr Joaquim Pueyo, for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Defence Committee, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, several speakers have already mentioned the great balances of the budget for 2019. I welcome the €1.7 billion increase in the appropriations for the Defence Mission, in accordance with the military programming law. The future successive budgets will have to translate into practice several political choices which my group wishes to see achieved. First of all, there is the filling of the gaps, whether it be the lack of small equipment or the living conditions of the personnel of our armies, in particular their accommodation. While I recognize the efforts made under the family plan to assist defence men and women and their spouses, I believe it is essential to continue our efforts, particularly with regard to real estate investments. The same applies to accompaniment to conversion. I will not recall the figures I mentioned in committee, but important efforts must be made to ensure that more personnel leaving our armies will be accompanied. The aim is to increase the uptake, which in particular requires better in-house knowledge of existing devices. That is why, despite the decrease in the number of beneficiaries expected in 2019, it seems regrettable to me to reduce the budget allocated for conversion. Then I think about support and equipment. Our country must pursue its research and investment policy in order to avoid capacity disruptions and to ensure that our soldiers have the best equipment to carry out their missions. Large arms programmes are therefore essential and must have the necessary funds to ensure adequate order and delivery schedules. While there are notable efforts, there are still shortcomings that do not allow some operational contracts to be fully completed. This is the case for patrollers, who need to be given special attention in the coming years, as too many uncertainties remain about them. The same is true for some of the Army's air assets whose availability rates remain far too low. The question of support also arises, particularly in the air sector. According to the budget documents, the very low availability of certain materials is also justified by a lack of human and financial resources. The issue of the distribution of positions to be created in the years of this MPA needs to be clarified and clarified. As indicated by one of the draftspersons, a senior Air Force officer explained that the targets defined by the LPM are already below the need. The review that will take place in 2021 will have to take these concerns into account – but I am convinced, minister, that you are well aware of this. Another political choice is the "Veterans, Memory and Nation Connections" mission. While I welcome the decision taken to extend the combatant's card to the soldiers employed in Algeria between 1962 and 1964, and the creation of a monument in memory of the soldiers who had fallen during the external operations, I would like to recall my proposal to put an end to the systematic decline in the appropriations for this mission, in order to promote the memory actions of programme 167 "Links between the nation and its army". Finally, our group would like to mention one last political choice: European cooperation. The year 2019 will see the conclusion of negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework, which will provide for the European budget for the next seven years. The European Commission has presented its broad guidelines to the Member States, including a sharp increase in defence spending. This increase will include a defence fund of €13 billion for this budget period, which will enable collaborative projects and research to be co-financed. Beyond the political objective of cooperation, it is also a matter of making significant savings, considering that each year the lack of cooperation between Member States in the field of security and defence would cost, according to estimates, several tens of billions of euros. Our country must remain a driving force in this area and persevere in its desire to train its European allies. This is reflected in the establishment of permanent structured cooperation, but also in the need to develop common response capabilities in order to respond to the threats facing our democracies and an unstable international context. On this subject, Madam Minister, I would like to say that I fully agree with your political position, as, of course, with that of the Government and the President of the Republic. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I know, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, that budget arbitration can be particularly difficult. That is why I commend the efforts in support of our armies as part of the 2019 Finance Bill. I am therefore very positive and will be vigilant about the amendments that we will be supporting in a few minutes. In any case, I will be consistent with what I said in the discussions on the MPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u46	Mr Olivier Becht, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Defence Committee, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, it is generally said that the ink of a military programming law has not finished to dry that the following finance law is already substantially different from the ambitions set out. We therefore pay tribute to you, Madam Minister, by noting that not only are you presenting us with a budget that is fully in line with the letter and the figure of the military programming law that we adopted last June, but also that you have been able to resist Bercy's tempters or elsewhere who might have wanted to bring down ambitions. It is your honour and that of the Government to respect the word given, and it is also the first condition of trust. This has been done in a context forced, by a trade-off between two constraints, one budget – we are in a period of slowing down of global growth which rather pushes to reduce deficits and thus spending – and the other strictly linked to the activity of our armed forces themselves, which continue to combat the threat of Islamic jihadism, both in the Sahel and in the Levant and in the national territory, within the framework of Operation Sentinel. The IDU, Act and Independent group is very satisfied that the second constraint has won over the first. Of course, we are satisfied with the EUR 1.7 billion increase in the appropriations for the military budget. We are particularly pleased that the family plan will improve the material conditions of our soldiers and their families. We are also extremely pleased with the 8 per cent increase in the appropriations for the maintenance of operational conditions, which will increase the availability of our equipment. We are also pleased that orders have been placed and must be honoured in 2019: the eighty-nine Griffon, the multi-mission frigate, the six Reaper drones, but also the Airbus A400M or the Airbus MRTT in-flight refuelling. We are pleased with the increase in credit for breaking innovation – isn't it, dear Thomas Gassilloud? –, an indispensable condition to continue the battle of digital sovereignty. We are also pleased that EUR 400 million is spent in space defence on satellite defence with the CSO, SYRACUSE and CERES satellites – an optical spatial component, a satellite-based radiocommunication system, and a space electromagnetic intelligence and listening capability. I am particularly pleased – which I share with my colleague Jacques Marilossian – whether studies are launched for the future or rather future aircraft carriers, which will have to replace the Charles-de-Gaulle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u48	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u49	These are all important signals in the direction of our armies to restore confidence. Secretary of State, the credits for the "Veterans, Memory and Nation Relations" mission are declining, but this is understandable given the unfortunately declining demographics of the Second World War fighters and the wars of decolonization, including the Indochina War. However, we note with satisfaction the extension of the famous fighter card to the soldiers who fought in Algeria between July 1962 and July 1964, as well as the action plan for the harkis and their families and the desire to maintain a strong ONAC operational network, which is important for our veterans. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LaREM groups as well as on several benches of the MODEM group]] You will understand that, in broad terms, this budget satisfies us, despite our reservations about the finance bill as a whole. The military's credits are up to the ambitions we have set ourselves. It is therefore with great pleasure that we will vote on them, and we call on all our colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u50	Mr Bastien Lachaud, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the defence budget proposed to us is, of course, within the framework of the MPA adopted before the summer. The Government is making great efforts to make itself look visionary, but in reality its policy is marked by continuity in alliances, means and objectives. The Government is yielding to the slope of events rather than influencing their course. For example, in the space field, everyone notes that "armamentization" poses an exorbitant risk to global security and that international law must therefore be expanded on this point. However, instead of a singular voice, the Government uses the development of China's and Russia's space capabilities as a pretext to affirm the need to do the same. Strangely enough, he puts his steps in those of the U.S. government, which has decided to take a course in space war. I also note that, in her recent interventions, the Minister has placed great emphasis on the need to involve the private sector in the financing of defence and innovation. I can only protest against this false good idea of satisfying the private interest by imagining itself to serve the general interest; In the medium term, I see it as a subjugation to operators which the public order has largely subsidized. The obsession of cost reduction also leads to a focus on European cooperation. What a dangerous illusion, since there is no more European sovereignty than a European people! We abandon our sovereignty and industrial defence capacity to naive cooperation: partnerships are not balanced and partners are not necessarily sincere. We are sacrificing national sovereignty because defence Europe also places us in dependence on NATO. This is the worst thing when NATO serves the bellicist aims of a Trump. On the contrary, we should work for peace. In fact, your main goal, to achieve 2% of GDP in the defence budget, is imposed by NATO. The supporters of national independence, as we are, deplore this. It is absurd to set a target rather than a strategy; This is the best way to lose sight of the fact that we are talking about the lives of women and men. In fact, the way to achieve this strange and foreign 2% target is the one that asked for the least thought: the executive has chosen to invest in the modernization and renewal of nuclear deterrence. I recall that this choice was made by the President of the Republic without any discussion, a fortiori without any democratic debate. However, it engages us for decades and falls behind our disarmament obligations. Hundreds of millions of euros are fixed for several years and will not be allocated to operational readiness, support, protection of maritime territory, human intelligence or the rise of cyber capabilities, which should be our real priorities. In the field of cyber, the means and doctrine are still not ready. The COCCYBER, commander of cyber defence, must have the means of our ambitions. It is illusory to think that action in this field, however technical, can be confined to small units within the armies. On the contrary, it is through broad mobilization and the creation of a true culture of defence in society that we can protect ourselves and achieve a satisfactory level of resilience and response. From the point of view of the preparation of the forces, I shall confine myself to General Lecointre, who notes that at the end of the period covered by the LPM, and despite the fact that we are likely to remain engaged in theatres of war, our army will always be a peacetime army. I note, moreover, that it is necessary to read the press to learn that Operation Barkhane will probably eventually spread to Burkina Faso. No one claims that the upsurge can be done with a finger slap, but this budget does not really give the armies the flexibility to carry out the tasks entrusted to them. The money held up by the renewed deterrence would also have improved the support of veterans, helped to retain our soldiers and effectively offset the constraints of service. I solemnly say that the situation in the armies is worrying. While recruitment is not a problem, the desire to serve and the courage to serve are to be worked out, they are not infinite. Sign of the times: the spirit of career is replaced by the contractual spirit. It should also be reiterated that Operation Sentinel is a very effective repellent to recruitment, while its effectiveness, from the point of view of the safety of the population, is highly questionable. Moreover, it must be said that the nation does not do all it can to soften the condition of the military, whether it is accommodation, wages, careers or, if I dare say so, comfort: the family plan is slow to materialize; a request as simple as that of better wifi equipment is still not taken into account. I regret that a full debate is not devoted to veterans. Yet the subject deserves it. On this subject, I will confine myself to saying that if things have changed, much remains to be done, especially in the prevention and treatment of mental injuries – especially as the number of victims will increase, given the years of commitment that we have behind and before us. [[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] In this year of the centenary of the end of the First World War, I cannot conclude without paying tribute to the women and men who fought and served in this conflict to defend their republican homeland and the principles of freedom, equality and fraternity. Let their memories enlighten us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u52	The next speaker is Ms Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u53	Mr President, the Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this budget declines for the first time the law of military programming, which is thus entering its active phase. The €35.8 billion increase in appropriations is €1.8 billion, which is in line with the President's ambition to increase the defence effort to 2% of GDP. We share that will. France is indeed involved in many theatres of operations. It has been touched at the heart by terrorism. The French need security: physical security, property security and cultural security. This question is therefore at stake both in the present and in the future. All over the world – in the United States, Italy, Central Europe, especially Poland, and recently Brazil – far-right populism is gaining ground. We must not cast reproach on the peoples or hide our face: the peoples demand that their needs be taken care of, first and foremost of their security. This budget goes in the right direction, because it meets the equipment needs of our military, because it sets up new weapons programmes like that of the SCORPION, because it finally offers the fighter card to those engaged in the Algerian conflict and because it opens a family plan, essential for the personnel, endowed with 57 million euros, and because it strengthens the equipment to accompany and protect the soldiers, thanks to a bonus of 150 million euros compared to 2018. The 2019 budget includes an additional EUR 400 million for the maintenance of equipment in operational condition, EUR 300 million for the renewal and modernisation of conventional equipment. It anticipates that the overseas countries will have six additional ships, in two stages: 2020 and 2022. However, there are still substantive issues. The first concerns nuclear engagement, which is a problem for many parliamentarians in my group, who are waiting for answers on nuclear non-proliferation and support for the victims of nuclear testing overseas. Our colleague Moetai Brotherson has rightly explained this: only €4 million is spent on clean-up actions in French Polynesia, while the Government spends €400 million on the modernization of nuclear weapons, an increase of 8%. The second concerns our country's increased involvement in NATO. France is dangerously aligned with the strategy of the United States. It is to forget that French politics must go from the Atlantic to the Urals. It is also to forget that France is the world's second largest maritime power, on all oceans, thanks to the overseas. We must pursue a policy that meets the universal ambition of France and its values; Unfortunately, we are not there. Finally, after Brexit, France will be the only country in the European Union that is a member of the UN Security Council – the United Nations – and the first European maritime power. This situation should lead us to reconsider the issue of European defence. My group also questions the financing of the extra costs of external operations. Interministerial solidarity should play its part, contrary to what the President of the Republic has said. Finally, the decision of the President of the Republic not to commemorate the military victory of the Great War moved us, especially in the West Indies. I recall that the former slaves emancipated in 1848 were exempt from military service and obtained full citizenship only by gaining the right to pay the blood tax, that is, by obtaining, in 1914, the right to go to fight in the trenches of Verdun, Marne or Dardanelles. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] In view of all these elements, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left is divided: for the reasons I have put forward, it will vote against the appropriations of the "Defence" mission; Recognising the anticipated progress, he will abstain from the credits of the "Veterans, Memory and Relationships with the Nation" mission. For my part, in my personal capacity, taking into account the commitments made by the Minister of Armed Forces, I will vote for these budgets in their entirety.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u54	The next speaker is Mr Bertrand Pancher, for the Libertés et territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u55	The 2019 budget of the armies, the first to register under the military programming law 2019-2025, follows the course set. It is rare in our country that a law of orientation or programming is effectively enforced; I would like to stress this and to congratulate myself on it. We are therefore satisfied with the increase in the appropriations for the Defence Mission, which only intervenes, it must be said, after disturbing hesitations during the installation of the new majority and the resignation – unprecedented in history – of the Chief of the Armed Staff. But all this, I hope, is from the past: to all sin mercy! Finally, it is gratifying that we seem to no longer consider the lives of our military and the defence problems of our country solely from an accounting point of view. On behalf of my colleagues in the Libertés et Territoires Group, allow me to pay tribute to our armies, to those who serve our country with full knowledge of the facts. We must constantly express our gratitude to our military and tell them how, in all circumstances, we are at their side, in a context of rising nationalisms that makes us think of the dark times of the inter-war period. The Defence Mission recorded a further 5% increase in appropriations compared to last year, bringing them up to 1.7 billion euros. That is good, Madam Minister, especially in the context of our country's budgetary difficulties. But don't fool us: the slope will be long to climb. This increase is all the more necessary in view of the fact that it comes after some 20 years of continuous decline in military appropriations in our country and that the financing of the military programming law is based on the available budgetary appropriations. That is why we must be careful in our criticisms. In this period of turmoil, marked by growing commitment requirements, this increase in appropriations represents a positive signal. Let us also keep in mind another priority: our strategic autonomy. It is not easy to maintain it. Indeed, in order to reduce the cost of manufacturing our weapons, we must export them, but, in order not to exacerbate the instability of the world, we must not sell to anyone, especially to countries that export violence. Saudi Arabia, when you hold us... The Government's budget therefore places particular emphasis on the renewal of equipment, which will benefit from an additional €636 million, support and protection equipment for soldiers, the maintenance of equipment, to which €4.2 billion must be devoted, nuclear deterrence, with more than €5 billion, intelligence, cyber defence, and research and innovation, with €758 million. I welcome the fact that such accompaniment also requires a more humane vision, and, whether it be the lives of our soldiers on a daily basis or the family plan, our group welcomes these actions, which are as important as those carried out for professional equality between men and women and the fight against discrimination. Our army, through the actions it promotes, serves as a model for our society as a whole. Nevertheless, despite the considerable effort made to feed this budget, doubts remain, in particular as a result of the extra cost of external operations. We have already talked about this on many occasions. It is true that every time we try to fill the gap with the forecasts, but, as there are more and more external operations, it is still important. Minister, the implementation of this budget remains... It is not the old monkeys that we learn to make the grimace: can you assure us that the investment expenses will actually be executed, that Bercy will not ask to postpone a part of it next year, explaining to us that they will not be incurred? We have seen enough of this in the past to avoid asking the question. I come to the mission "Veterans, Memory and Connections with the Nation." We are satisfied with that. You have been able, Madam Minister, to answer questions that have been asked for a long time. Believe that as an elected member of the Meuse, one of the territories that ends the centenary of the First World War, I am particularly sensitive to the emphasis placed in this budget on the duty of memory. Nevertheless, questions persist: will the fighter's card be assigned to 40,000 more people, but, given the state of the ONAC's management in our departments, will it be possible to do so quickly? We also question the lack of an increase in the veteran's pension and compensation for the pupils of the nation. In conclusion, we are rather pleased that all the funds we are looking at this morning are clearly focusing on our priorities in a world where threats continue to grow. Let us fight tirelessly against the potential – if not probable – future conflicts as well as against their ferments: identity retreats, nationalisms, the extreme poverty of the countries of the South against the backdrop of certain climate catastrophe and the new arms race, increasingly mad.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u56	The next speaker is Mr Fabien Gouttefarde, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u57	"When we arrived here, the plain was beautiful. Today, the shores of Aisne resemble the land of death. The earth is upset, burned. [...] We are in the front line trenches. In addition to bullets, bombs, barbed wires, it's the mine war with the prospect of jumping at any time. We're dirty, our frusques are in shreds. We pat in the mud, a mud of clay, thick, sticky from which it is impossible to get rid. The trenches collapse under the shells and reveal bodies, bones and skulls, the smell is pestilential. All is missing: water, latrines, soup. We're badly refuelled, the galetouse is empty! A single night meal that gets cold because of the length of the hoses to travel. We don't even have any more dry to comfort ourselves sometimes a little more juice and a rasade of casseroles to warm us up. [...] It is difficult to move, with a helmet made of heavy steel sheet that is inconvenient but protects from ricochets and congested with all the gear against asphyxiating gases. We've been involved in outrageous offensives that have all failed on mountains of corpses. These incessant struggles have left us exhausted and desperate. [...] This war seems to us all to be an infamous [...] butchery. Letter from Eugene to his wife, 1917. Let's not forget! Mr. Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, Chair of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, a few days before the commemoration of the Armistice of the Great War, which will be the culmination of a major round of commemorations of more than four years, we are examining the appropriations of the mission "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation" and of the mission "Defence", within the framework of the finance bill for 2019, for which I have the honour to be the spokesperson of my group, The Republic in progress. And this honour required me first of all to take up the duty of remembrance because we, the presidential majority, do not forget those who have protected and defended us. With €2.3 billion in funding, the budget dedicated to veterans, memory and ties with the nation marks the Government's commitment to consolidate the measures of recognition and reparation while making the funded schemes much more equitable. I would immediately like to welcome the financing of the allocation of the combatant's card to nearly 35,000 soldiers stationed in Algeria between 2 July 1962 and 1 July 1964, the result of the intensive concertation carried out by the Secretary of State, Ms Geneviève Darrieussecq, with all the actors, in particular the representatives of the veterans, whose presence I welcome here. Last April, when we voted on our motion to refer our colleague Gilles Lurton's bill to committee, we called for this measure of legitimate recognition to be included in a future finance bill. We are doing so now: we are delivering on our commitments, but with the rigour of the budgetary sincerity that drives us. With regard to the appropriations of the "Defence" mission, with an increase of 5%, i.e. 1.7 billion euros, the finance bill for 2019 continues the implementation of the courageous and proactive policy of the President of the Republic to repair our armies. The appropriations for this mission also allow us to begin to realize the objectives set out in the military programming law, resolutely committing our armies towards the achievement of Ambition 2030, articulated around a model of a complete, autonomous and sustainable army. In a globalized environment of growing challenges to multilateralism, arms proliferation and the return of military competition, the ministry's budget for 2019, with a total appropriation of 1.82% of gross domestic product, gives our armies the means to regain their power. It allows France's strategic autonomy, some of which, in the opposition, deplored the absence in the previous year. This can be seen, for example, in the 6% increase in pre-study funding and the 13% increase in the resources of the DGSE and the Directorate of Intelligence and Defence Security. In addition, it puts an end to failures caused by the renewal of equipment and the improvement of the working and living conditions of the military; The LPM at man's level will have consequences from its first year on the lives of our soldiers. Finally, I want to stress the demanding financial effort, amounting to 57 million euros, dedicated to the pursuit of the ambitious family plan. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This finance bill is in line with past years, with expenditures being fully funded from budgetary appropriations. And, as I say to the special rapporteur Cornut-Gentille, there is no reason why this should change in the years to come. If the duty of remembrance obliges us to all generations of fire, a duty of good management obliges us to future generations. The La République group on the move will therefore enthusiastically vote on the appropriations for these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u59	The next speaker is Mr Charles de la Verpillière, for the Group of the Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Mr Chair of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, this defence budget, the first of the MPA 2019-2025, is supposed to close the disastrous period of the 2014-2019 MPA adopted by the previous majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u61	And the one before, you should not forget it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u62	[[Exclaims on various benches]] ... in the course of which our armies had weakened and exhausted themselves and which had as its main focus the cancellation of 850 million euros of credits by the current government in 2017 and the resignation of General de Villiers. I see that this reminder does not please you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, but bear it! Members of the Republican Group are pleased to note that the budget is in line with the path envisaged by the MPA 2019-2025... subject to certain approximations in the calculation method, on which I will return in a moment. The increase in appropriations will, in particular, create 466 jobs and continue the family plan; The two are linked, as the loyalty of our military, the attractiveness of the profession and recruitment will be the major challenges in the coming years. However, there is still some uncertainty as to the scope of the expenditure to be financed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u63	There's a wolf!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u64	Thus, we still have no certainty, minister, that the future universal national service will not harm the military budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u65	Yes! That's a good point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u66	The rejection in committee of the amendment we tabled on this subject confirmed our fears. Moreover, the increase in the defence budget will be partly absorbed by the increase in the provision for external operations, from 650 million to 850 million euros, and even to 950 million euros if the provision for internal security operations is added. And, if there is, however, an additional cost, the defence budget will be used for a second time in the context of inter-ministerial solidarity! Finally, the uncertainty persists as to how the defence effort is calculated: depending on your interest in the moment and your interlocutors, you add or not the pensions to the military expenditure stricto sensu. The share of GDP devoted to defence effort is thus 1.82% or 1.4%, as the case may be. As our group has done on the LPM, we will therefore abstain from the defence budget for 2019 – forbearance from vigilance and not conviction. We will pay particular attention to how this budget will be implemented, as will Budget 2018. In this connection, Madam Minister, I would like to remind you of my letter of 25 July, in which I asked you to come to the National Defence Committee every year to give precise figures on the implementation of the previous year's budget. We will not be content with a press release!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u67	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u68	I now turn to the veterans' budget. The Republicans attach the greatest importance to this, because it shows the recognition of the nation to all our soldiers, called and engaged, who sacrificed themselves for France. In this regard, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, we recall that the victory of 1918 is a military victory! It is not acceptable that the French army should not be honoured, or even excluded, at the centennial celebrations on November 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u69	Very good remark!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u70	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u71	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We agree with the measures in favour of the children of harkis and note with satisfaction that the right to the soldier's card will be extended to the soldiers who served in Algeria between July 1962 and July 1964. But why, when we proposed this measure on 5 April, did the Government and its majority oppose it? Similarly, we do not understand that the majority rejected in committee our amendment proposing to increase the veteran's retirement by two points. I would like to recall that under Jacques Chirac's presidency, and then under Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency, the veteran's retirement was regularly revalued, by a total of 12 points between 2006 and 2012, i.e. an increase of 30%. But this virtuous movement has been interrupted by the socialists, and you follow them! In these circumstances, we will abstain from the budgets of both the veterans and the defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u73	We come to the questions. Mr Antoine Herth, for the IUD, Action and Independents Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u74	Allow me first of all to welcome the release of the long-awaited 1962-1964 combatant card file, which will restore fairness with regard to the current rules for military personnel engaged in OPEX. It will also, I hope, make it possible to convince the beneficiaries to join the ranks of the patriotic associations, which are in great need of them. Indeed – this is the subject of my question – they see their numbers melt from year to year, because of the great age of their members. Often, when the statutes permit, veterans' spouses or family members take over so that the structure can continue to operate. Nevertheless, the Presidents' speech suggests a form of discouragement and weariness. We might consider the decline in the number of veterans to be good news: it is the product of the peace that France has enjoyed for several decades. I am concerned, however, because patriotic associations send out a particularly important message of vigilance in times of peace, reminding us that it is never definitively acquired. Is there a need for barbaric acts such as the attacks that France has suffered in order for a start to be made among our fellow citizens, particularly in favour of the reserve? This week, the Prime Minister affirmed, in questions to the Government, that the defence of democracy is the business of every citizen. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, have you started a reflection on the role of patriotic associations, on their organization, on the possibility of rapprochement between them and on the opening up of their ranks to civil society? In short, how do you intend to support patriotic discourse?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u75	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u76	Mr President, you are asking a very important question. We are indeed at a turning point for the fighting world: I wish veterans a healthy life for a long time, but it is a fact that their numbers are gradually decreasing, while the proportion of "young" veterans among them is gradually increasing. For the past year, I have been working with the associations of the fighting world and I have been trying to make them aware of this development, and to make them aware of it – because we cannot decide in their place – of the need to consider groupings within already existing federations or foundations, important and active. With these structures, we will be able to continue the ongoing memory work, which is crucial for young people. Associations must understand that these groups will equip them with the means to continue their work. For our part, we will of course continue – and this is our responsibility – the work of memory and the very important collection of direct testimonies of the combatants and their families, in order to create an archive database that will be available to the nation in the years to come and that will make room for modern conflicts, which will one day pass in memory and in history. I encourage associations to carry out this reflection; we talk about it regularly with them and we will be there to accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u78	Mr Olivier Damaisin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u79	Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this is an injustice, yes, an injustice: more than 500 men were killed or reported missing in Algeria between 1962 and 1964. The presence of the French armed forces on the spot after the cease-fire of 19 March 1962 is a relatively unknown episode of the general public. From that date to July 1964, military personnel continued to carry out security operations. Yet nothing has been done for them for fifty-four years. It was a question of fairness: the French soldiers present in Algeria between July 3, 1962 and July 1, 1964, after the Evian agreements which ended the war, will now benefit from the fighter's card. During the 2017 presidential campaign, Emmanuel Macron pledged to award it to them. The Government – at your initiative, Mrs Darrieussecq – has just proposed it. Nearly 35,000 people, including a majority of former callers, would potentially be affected by this measure. In addition to carrying the cross of the fighter, the card entitles to a pension of 749 euros per year and, from seventy-five years onwards, to an additional half-share for the calculation of income tax; It also makes it possible to purchase a mutual benefit. So far, only the title of recognition of the nation was granted to soldiers from 1962 to 1964. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Secretary of State, why did you wait fifty-four years? What steps will our honourable soldiers have to take to benefit from the fighter card?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u80	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u81	Mr President, a collective and concerted action with the associations resulted in the decision to assign the combatant's card to the soldiers of the period 1962-1964. We have thus given priority to the combatant world. In practice, 50,000 people are eligible for this card. I signed an interministerial decree amending the decree of 12 January 1994; it has been forwarded to the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts and will be published as soon as the Ministry has signed it. A specific application form, complying with CERFA standards, has been developed and will be available in all departments of ONAC and on the Office's website. We preserve the proximity, since the requests will be processed by the departmental offices of ONAC. The National Commission for the Card of the Fighter, whose opinion is mandatory, is due to meet at the beginning of next year; As soon as its opinion is published, it will be forwarded to the relevant departmental department, then to the ONAC pension centre, then to the paying agency of the fighter's retirement. Every effort is made to simplify the procedure to be followed by the applicant, so that it is not lost in complex administrative circuits. If the files flowed, the Agency could recruit individual contractors, but it seems to me that it will be able, on a constant basis – to which individual contractors may have to be added temporarily – to deal with these cases under the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u82	I call the "Defence" mission's appropriations, which are listed in Statement B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 634.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u83	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u84	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u85	This amendment would condemn the airborne component of nuclear deterrence by preventing its modernisation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u86	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u87	If you allow me to do so, before I give my opinion on Amendment No 634, I would like to say a word, as we look at the defence and veterans budget, about the duty of memory. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It must be noted that the group The Republicans has a short memory. Between 2005 and 2015, 60,000 posts were abolished, programs were cancelled or postponed, bases closed and regiments dissolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u88	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u89	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Today we are repairing the wanderings of the past. We are increasing defence budget appropriations by 1.7 billion euros, after an increase of 1.8 billion in the 2018 budget. For the period covered by the LPM, 295 billion euros will be invested in our defence; I dare recall that the LPM will be posting growing credits for the first time since the end of the cold war. There are two policies for our armies: that of decay, yours, and that of growth, ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u90	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u91	[[Same movements]] I regret that you do not have the decency to acknowledge your wrongs or – let alone – what we do to repair them. And I wonder how you can justify this attitude towards our soldiers, who feed a lot of expectations, after all these years of restrictions you have placed on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u92	One day, you may be elected somewhere, and you'll give less lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u93	I come to Amendment No 634, an appeal amendment which concerns the policy of deterrence. The President of the Republic reaffirmed the need for France to retain nuclear weapons and to remain a power with nuclear weapons, in an international context where there is no incentive to lower the guard. It has therefore set the objective of maintaining a two-component deterrent, for political reasons – in order to have a wide range of options – operational – the complementarity of the two components allowing for varied and wide-ranging effects – and technical – the maintenance of rare skills in our industrialists. The LPM therefore provides for the modernization of the delivery systems for these two components and the adaptation of our weapons. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, you will understand that I am not in favour of the adoption of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u94	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u95	This amendment does not propose to remove the two deterrents. As you are well aware, Madam Minister, we are in favour of France retaining nuclear deterrence. But the decisions taken, not only to modernise but to renew the airborne force, lead us to possess this force for several more decades, while France has committed itself, in the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to reducing its nuclear capabilities. The aim is to engage in international cooperation leading to multilateral disarmament. The airborne vector, which is one of the factors of nuclear escalation since it represents the most visible force, is a useful currency of exchange, which France can put in the balance to weigh in negotiations to build a nuclear-free world. But, I repeat, the choice to renew this force – and not just to modernize it – commits us for several decades, and the financial amounts at stake mean that the Government refuses to allow France to initiate a process of denuclearisation of the world. That is what we regret, and that is what our amendment means, neither more nor less.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u96	Mr Christophe Lejeune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u97	Mr Lachaud, France is a very good student in the field of nuclear equipment. We are the only country that has removed one of our nuclear components.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u98	Without asking anything in exchange: very intelligent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u99	We are the only country that has chosen strict sufficiency for our last two components. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As for the deterrence budget, it still accounts for 12 per cent of the overall expenditures of the Ministry of Armed Forces, which shows the consistency of our line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u100	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 632.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u101	[[Exclaims]] [[Smile]] Every year, France pays the US empire a tribute – 80 million euros this year. You will of course have understood that I was referring to the NATO budget. Because we do not resign ourselves to keeping our country in this servile position vis-à-vis the United States, our amendment proposes to emancipate us from the United States and to give priority to our independence by reallocating the NATO budget to other priority missions. Everyone should know that NATO is no longer an alliance, since it was created in response to the Warsaw Pact. The USSR no longer exists, NATO should have been dissolved at the end of the cold war. It is not reasonable to invest today in this obsolete alliance that creates more tension than it solves problems. This amendment is also an appeal amendment. France is the second largest maritime territory in the world, but the means to protect it from looting or ecological attacks are not up to the challenge. Did Patrick Boissier not declare that the naval patrollers represented the equivalent of two estafettes for the gendarmerie to control the entire national territory? We could not bear that our land territory should be so little monitored: why accept it with regard to maritime territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u103	We are radically opposed to our colleague Bastien Lachaud's proposal. NATO is a body that guarantees stability. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u105	I assure you, Member: the MPA takes into account the renewal of the "estafettes" to take your words into account. The renewal of patrollers was initiated with the admission of two new patrollers to active service in Guyana last year. It will continue in 2019 with the delivery of a patrol boat and a multi-mission building in Martinique. In addition, six new patrol boats will be commissioned in 2019; their deliveries will take place between 2022 and 2024 in order to ensure the renewal of this component in New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Réunion and Mayotte, in addition to the multi-mission buildings already delivered and L'Astrolabe, which patrol in Antarctic waters. Finally, without resuming a discussion that we have already embarked on in the context of the review of the LPM project, I would like to point out that France's participation in the Atlantic Alliance is a decisive element of our security that strengthens our military model. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u106	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u107	Mr President, you are proposing that we free ourselves from NATO in the context of the brutalization of the world, in the words of the Chief of Staff. Can we isolate France without harming the defence of its interests? Because, deep down, that's what you're proposing. Today, NATO is the foundation of the collective security of Europeans. At this very moment, NATO troops are training in Norway. We certainly want France to weigh its weight in NATO; But how can we achieve this goal without being part of it? France is keen on its presence in the Alliance. It is true that the context has changed since its creation after the Second World War: relations between East and West have evolved; But the level of threats remains high, and there are many sources of instability. The commitment of our forces in coalitions does not weaken, and our objective alliances must stand firmly on the side of countries that share our democratic values.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u108	Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u109	The NATO contribution amounts to only 198 million euros: a straw! The first arrangements, such as the Canjuers camp, or the first security contracts in the areas where we operate with NATO, allow us to recover the money; 198 million euros, that's nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u110	You can't talk like this about the money of the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u111	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u112	I have already said this several times in the Defence Committee: we are in favour of leaving NATO. If we could still, yesterday, find some arguments – which we would not necessarily have approved – to defend this alliance, today it is no longer justified. At a time when we are considering developing European defence, it is well known that NATO is serving the United States as a Trojan horse to paralyse the development of European defence, particularly with regard to the arms industries. This alliance favours the purchase of American weapons, often imposed on European countries, which is a terrible blow to our arms industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u113	Mr Jacques Marilossian, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u114	Mr.Lachaud, the minister is right: it is foreseen in the MPA and in the 2019 Finance Bill that patrol boats and multi-mission buildings will be ordered and soon delivered, which should be enough to get us to reject your amendment. On the other hand – should we remind him? –, NATO means North Atlantic Treaty Organization. As draftsman of the Navy's budget, I took part in a surveillance patrol over the North Atlantic on the Atlantic 2, and it was a Russian vessel that we flew over, flying over the submarine cables. If no one sees a threat there, I don't understand it anymore. Finally, from a technical point of view, your amendment is to transfer payment credits: why not, but what do you want to pay with? In order to have something to pay for, it would have been necessary for deliveries to be planned and, for that, for the previous governments to have ordered the famous patrollers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u115	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u116	France is insoubted with absolute constancy in its hostility to NATO. NATO is our security, and it is essential to ensure the security of the European Union, now more than ever. We can therefore only oppose the point of view put forward by Mr Lachaud. On the other hand, MP Chassaigne raises an interesting question, that of the equipment of the armies of the NATO countries and, consequently, of their defence industry. We should address this problem, because it is very difficult for our country to develop the weapons systems of the future because of an extremely strong will, not to use any other word, from the United States.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u118	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u119	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u120	Indeed, 198 million euros is a straw. But it's not about money! This price is that of submission. Your interventions themselves prove this: European defence exists only by NATO. European countries have never been able to take a single joint decision in the field of defence or diplomacy. Some countries are involved in operations decided by the United States, others are not. NATO is therefore the instrument for submitting a hypothetical European defence. When one sees that Belgians prefer to buy the F-35 rather than the Rafale, one understands the interest that the Americans can find in imposing that European defence budgets represent 2% of GDP: the aim is to encourage the purchase of American weapons, to enrich the American military-industrial complex, but above all not to participate in the development of French companies, otherwise Dassault would have sold much more Rafale, a plane of much better quality than the F-35. Finally, we do not want to isolate France but to open it to other alliances, which do not consider China or Russia to be, by definition, the number one enemy. Mr Marilossian, Russian ships are spying on submarine cables, that is true, and this is an undeniable threat; But did the United States not spy massively on the French and German heads of state? Don't you see a threat? Shouldn't we, at least, protest? No European government has done so! We let the Americans spy on us, spy on our industries, put Alstom down by intercepting emails and telephone communications, but we never said anything. The United States is also a threat.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u121	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara has the floor to support Amendment No. 631.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u122	Minister, my amendment will not surprise you. Last year, here, I asked for the replacement of the famous Caracal, a helicopter used by the special forces; I'm coming back to you for the same purpose. Two Caracals have been destroyed, another is under repair and will not be rehabilitated for two years. Last year, I agreed, contrary to the opinion of my colleagues, to withdraw my amendment, because you made a reassuring commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u124	So we don't have short memories!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u125	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u126	Nothing happened, alas. In June 2018, Mr.Larsonneur asked you again about this. I then realized that there was water in the gas, a fly in the milk, parasites on the line – say it as you wish; In any case, nothing would happen as planned. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I know you are convinced of the usefulness of this helicopter used by our special forces in the Sahel, in particular, where they are increasingly engaged. I appeal to all my colleagues here. I know you're having a tough discussion with Bercy, but, please, let's not wait for a budget freeze to meet the commitments of our forces in external operations. Let's make a decision. Let's renew this helicopter. That's the least we can do for our strength. Let's get out of the postures! I will support you, Minister, against Bercy, to help you conduct these difficult negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u128	It is not appropriate to move commitment authorities from one program to another. As for the substance, I will allow the minister to answer. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u130	I do not have the short memory, honourable Member, and I thank you for the consistency with which you defend the means of my ministry, in particular the special forces budget. I had indeed made the commitment, which I reiterate, to explore the means, within the framework of management and not by amending the appropriations proposed in the original finance law, to replace the helicopter destroyed in 2014. Don't forget all the efforts made elsewhere to strengthen all the resources of the Special Forces. As you know, operational readiness is essential and we are working to improve it as part of the plan to modernise the maintenance in operational condition – MCO – aeronautics, paying particular attention to helicopters. In addition, the Caracal helicopter retrofit programme will end in the second half of 2019, which will improve the availability of this fleet. Finally, the adaptation programme of the ten NH90s to the special forces, provided for by the Military Programming Act, will help to improve the situation. I am, like you, particularly sensitive to the question of the resources allocated to our special forces, but I ask you, honourable Member, for a little bit of patience. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I am therefore, as you will have understood, against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u131	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u132	The Defence Committee has not considered this amendment. The concern of our colleague Jean-Jacques Ferrara – a concern that he never fails to recall – is, I believe, very shared on the benches of our assembly. I, too, spoke to you last year, Madam Minister, about the replacement of the Caracal. It is true that the problem remains. It is all the more thorny as in 2018 our forces lost several aircraft: two Gazelle, a Puma and, again recently, an NH90, during an accident on the bridge of the projection and command building – PCB – Dixmude. Madam Minister, could you tell us, even approximately, what repair operations are needed, how long, and what the cost will be? The question of adapting NH90s to the needs of special forces is raised. The capabilities of these devices are not the same as those of the Caracals; In addition, and above all, the delivery of NH90s for special forces is expected at the beginning of the period covered by the military programming law: they will not be available immediately. Operational staff consider it urgent to fill this capacity gap. Perhaps we can rely, to remedy this problem, on a faster and more marked increase in the operational technical readiness – DTO – of the Caracals, thanks to the new practices introduced by the Aviation Maintenance Directorate, the DMAé. Such progress is obviously desirable, especially since we are not leaving a very high level. It seems prudent to rely on this possibility. Minister, can you tell us what the targets are for 2019? [[Exclaims and applause on the benches of the LR groups. – Mr. Bastien Lachaud also applauds]] For all these reasons, and in my personal capacity, I rely on this amendment to the wisdom of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u133	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u134	Minister, I can hear you; but there is an urgent need to engage in the process of renewal of this device. With regard to the new organisation of maintenance, which must improve the availability of the equipment, I have heard from the Director concerned, who told me that the expected results will not be felt before eighteen months – which is normal, it is obvious. You also refer to the adaptation of NH90s. But it only concerns the army's helicopters. Moreover, certain specific features of the Caracal – on which my colleagues have asked me a lot – will not be available on these adapted NH90s. Thus refuelling, which allows to cross the limit of 200 kilometers – the Caracal can intervene in the Maghreb from the metropolis – or autopilot in case of "pitch dust", a possibility that the NH90 will never offer. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Please, Madam Minister, let's speed up! The National Assembly can give you a hand. Going beyond what is planned would be on your part brave, even bold – and appreciated by the forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u135	The Chairman of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u136	I would have understood that you are submitting an unsecured appeal amendment: all members of the National Defence and Armed Forces Commission are aware of the urgent need to give our military, whether or not they belong to the Special Forces, the means to ensure the missions we entrust to them so that our security and freedom can be guaranteed. The minister reiterated that the armies must replace the Caracal. But you are securing your 40 million euro amendment to the defence budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u138	And now I don't agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u139	It is impossible not to guarantee an amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u140	So you're not fighting Bercy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u141	That's more than misleading!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u142	You are asking Members to make a choice when the Chiefs of Staff have proposed balances, and the Minister has made the decisions. We cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u143	Exactly, it's not up to us to decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u144	Of a budget of EUR 15 billion, it would probably be possible to find EUR 40 million to ensure the replacement of the Caracals. But other arbitrations took place. I hear the minister assure us that she is aware of the urgency; I also hear that the availability of the various helicopters will be improved. Let us go in this direction: this is the spirit of the military programming law, as well as that of the finance bill for 2019. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I am therefore against this amendment, even if I understand its spirit, and I know the urgency of the problem it raises.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u145	I call Mr Thomas Gassilloud to support Amendment No. 662.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u146	The aim of this amendment is to draw your attention to the essential nature of certain small investments, which may seem irrelevant in view of the major issues identified in our strategic review, but are nevertheless symbolic of what a law of military programming could be at man's level. [[Smile on the bench of commissions]] Of course, I do not claim that the order for new sports outfits – the subject of this amendment – is more important than that of the bulletproof vests I mentioned earlier. Of course, I do not mean that the purchase of new sports outfits is urgent only for the army. But I stress one imperative: we must win the battle of loyalty, otherwise we will make the investments made for the training and training of the young recruits of the ground task force useless – I have quoted the figure of 45,000 recruits over the last three years. The average duration of the contract for a volunteer is now four and a half years; We would like her to be eight years old. However, training is expensive – at least, according to our calculations, a hundred times more than one outfit. The LPM does much to win this battle of loyalty: family plan and regulatory flexibilities to better reconcile family life and working life, but also delivery of individual equipment that I have already mentioned – bulletproof vests, meshes, assault rifles,... The sportswear renewal project provides a modest but symbolic complement – key in hand – to these actions. For a soldier, this is a daily outfit: as soon as the soldiers returned from the field, they put on sports uniforms, including during external operations – the Chief of the Army Staff quoted Gao's example. It is an outfit in which we work endurance, in the neighborhood, in the morning, in which we do sports sessions, in which we practice collective sports. I am sure, Madam Minister, that the department will examine – for all components of our armed forces – this project with goodwill, whether it can provide financial room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u148	I also discussed this issue with the Chief of the Army Staff. I understand that this is an appeal amendment. At my level, I suggest you remove it; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u150	There is no question here of the interest of your amendment, Mr President, nor of the reality of the need it seeks to satisfy: staff clothing is important for the quality of work, but also for safety in operation. It is for this reason that we have planned to allocate EUR 234 million to clothing in the armies. We chose to give priority to the safety of combatants and their protection: I mentioned just now the 25,000 bulletproof vests that will be delivered as early as 2019, I could also mention the 29000 flame retardant trellis that will be equipped with all our forces projected in external operations as early as 2020. All this equipment is very much expected of our military, because they can save lives. However, I am not insensitive to the issue of sportswear; We're going to look for solutions. But you will understand, honourable Member, that we cannot solve all the problems at the same time; We must give priority to some. However, I naturally commit myself, in connection with the Army Chief of Staff, who is very committed to this issue, to provide an answer to this question as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u151	Mr. Gassilloud?...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u152	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u153	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 196, 500 and 623. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 196.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u154	This amendment aims to draw your attention to the €9 million increase in the appropriations for staff expenditure under programme 212 "Support for defence policy", due to an increase in the number of staff working on defence and citizenship day – this is action 65. This day was introduced when military service disappeared at the end of the last century. This year, you are planning to increase the employment limit from 2019 ETPT to 2159, an increase of 6.4%, while the number of young people welcomed will fall by almost 2.5%. There is an inconsistency: needs are decreasing, but the means are increasing. Does this hide the financing of another action? We must be frank with each other: would you not be prepared to finance, in a masked way, the experiment of the universal national service, announced for 2019? If that were the case, this would contravene the military programming law for the years 2019 to 2025, which explicitly excludes the financing of universal national service from the budget of the Ministry of Defence. In committee, marchers argued that this increase in the resources allocated to defence and citizenship day was due to the connection of voluntary military service. Surprising answer: these are not the same actions! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In any case, and without a pass, could you tell us where, in the 2019 Finance Bill, the credits that will allow us to experiment with the universal national service are included? Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, we need a clear answer. It is a matter of budgetary sincerity. We owe the truth to our armies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u155	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor to support Amendment No. 500.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u156	In order to defend my amendment, identical to that of Thibault Bazin, I was preparing to stick to the technical aspect of this budgetary mystery: the number of young people is increasing from more than 800,000 to some 792000, but the budget is on the rise. We will be very vigilant: we do not have short memory...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u157	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u158	...and we know there can be pass operations. You're talking about fixing past mistakes. But I recall that the situation has changed enormously since 2012: we experienced the attacks in Toulouse, Operation Serval, when the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad was marching towards Gao after taking Timbuktu, the proclamation of the caliphate by Daesh... If I welcome our defence efforts, we must be vigilant. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This amendment contributes to this vigilance: let us know where the defence money goes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u159	I call Mr Patrice Verchère to support Amendment No. 623.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u160	Madam Minister, I do not know who has the short memory, but by the words you made earlier, you deny yourself, if we consider your political path. It is indeed, in fact, a socialist majority – to which, along with others here, the chairman of the Defence Committee – voted, on the initiative of a socialist government, the LPM 2014-2019, which was not up to the challenges – as the Chief of the Defence Staff, the CEMA, recently recalled. You have also been Secretary of State for the budget in a government of Lionel Jospin: should I remind you of the significant deterioration of the equipment credits of our armed forces that had forced President Jacques Chirac to intervene with the Government? But let's go back to that amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u161	A very good amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u162	Thibault Bazin and Jean-Louis Thiériot recalled: it aims to obtain explanations on the €9 million increase in the appropriations under Title 2 of the 212 programme, an increase which concerns staff working on the defence and citizenship day. This increase does not appear to be justified, as the JDC has not changed its nature, and the number of young people welcomed in 2019 is expected to be nearly 12,000 fewer than in 2018. We therefore believe – perhaps wrongly, perhaps also rightly – that this increase in funding could be a start to funding the universal national service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u163	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u164	Such disguised funding would be contrary to section 3 of the MPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u165	But that's not it, at least!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u166	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, we are waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u167	Ah, that's complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u168	Where are the credits?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u169	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u170	Unfavorable opinion. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, these expenses are not just for the JDC. The Secretary-General for Administration has thus specified that the increase in appropriations of EUR 9 million for staff and the increase in the employment ceiling in 2019 is due in particular to the increase in the tasks of the Directorate of National Service and Youth as a result of the connection of voluntary military service to this body.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u172	I would like to reassure you, honourable Members: there is no pass-by, no budgetary mystery, but a pragmatic and sincere budget, the guidelines of which, adopted under the military programming law, aim, I remind you, to perpetuate voluntary military service, which has been the subject of experiments so far. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Bruno Millienne also applauds]] This sustainability has been achieved through specific budget lines. For example, in the 167 programme that I am defending, a line on the operating costs of voluntary military service, which joined the JDC, received €2.5 million. As for the budget line of programme 212, Action 65, it corresponds to the remuneration of staff of the Directorate of the National Service and Youth, to which, as the Special Rapporteur pointed out, the staff of the voluntary military service have added.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u173	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u174	Of course, the numbers are falling, but today's Defence and Citizenship Day is a great rallying point around our military. It is an attractive tool for our armies, which must not be underestimated. Beyond its interest, the JDC also allows for the detection of young people in a situation of complete drop-out, the discovery of the profession of the armies and, at times, the development of vocations. It seems to me dangerous to reduce these efforts to nothing or, at least, to transfer appropriations from these lines, as the amendments propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u175	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u176	The "Links between the Nation and its Army" programme, which represents €33.8 million in the 2019 Finance Bill, provides funding for both defence and citizenship day, voluntary military service, memory policy, and the maintenance of war graves and memorial sites. This program includes essential mechanisms to maintain the bond between the nation and its army. The defence and citizenship day thus makes it possible to raise awareness among young people of the rights and duties of citizens, to detect young people who have failed school and to ensure, with the help of the town halls, the census of young citizens. Voluntary military service offers a second chance to young people who have failed in school or work, or are in the process of being marginalised, by providing them with socio-occupational integration or training in employment. More than 72% of volunteer trainees find employment. Finally, the policy of memory provides for the needs of commemoration, but also of transmission to the younger generations, such as the maintenance of the graves of war and places of memory. It seems fundamental to me to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past because, as Winston Churchill said, "a people who forget their past is doomed to relive it." [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In this regard, the increase in appropriations for staff working for the "Links between the Nation and its Army" programme is entirely justified, and one cannot allow the contrary to be said.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u177	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u178	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am surprised by the interventions of my fellow walkers, who suggest that we question the interest of the JDC or the VMS. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] We have asked a clear question, which calls for a clear answer: in the draft budget for 2019, where are the appropriations intended to finance the testing of the universal national service, which was announced for this year?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u179	You've already had the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u180	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u181	I don't know if, as you said, minister, we have a short memory, but you yourself seem to be deaf. With these three amendments, we ask you how you will finance the testing of the universal national service, which, if we have understood correctly, is planned for 2019. That is the question, and you insist on not answering it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u182	Yes, we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u183	Madam Minister, if we have a short memory, as you have accused us, we, at least, unlike you, do not deny ourselves. I would remind you that from 1997 onwards, as Secretary of State for the Budget – it was not nothing – you were part of a socialist government that undermined our armies, by amputating the appropriations of the Ministry of Defence, in five years, from the equivalent of the one-year budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u184	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u185	What about you?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u186	[["Yes! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I could stop there, but I will remind you again that the previous quinquennium has again abused our armies and drastically reduced their budget. The chairman of the National Defence Committee, as a member of the majority, voted on these cuts without delay. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, ladies and gentlemen, do not deny yourself and let us have memory!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u187	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u188	Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, you are not printing. As we have already told you in committee, we are telling you again here: the universal national service has no impact on the MPA as it was voted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u189	Where are the credits?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u190	Let's get back to the chronology for a moment. A fact-finding mission was initially organized within the National Defence Committee, in which the Republican Group participated, since Marianne Dubois drafted the report, together with our colleague, Émilie Guerel. An intergovernmental mission was then conducted, followed by a citizen's debate, which ended on 31 October. The universal national service is therefore under construction. It will be implemented in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u191	He needs a budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u192	My dear colleague, I have listened to you, listen to me now! The additional resources allocated to the universal national service are not included in the MPA. How do you know?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u193	Where are they?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u194	They will arrive when the project is fully described. Can you say today that you know the details? Its military aspect has been clearly set out, but we are talking about the training of trainers, which will have no impact on the defence budget. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, stop instrumentalizing the anxieties that you provoke: it is you who have abolished compulsory military service!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u195	I call Mr Joaquim Pueyo to support Amendment No. 585.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u196	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group – Benoit also applauds]] First of all, I would ask my colleagues, who refer to the ball, who cited 1997 as the last legislature, to show a little humility. As a socialist, I must defend what we have done.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u197	You've stayed, congratulations! You don't give up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u198	In 2012, as I recall, we had to deal with a considerable deflation of the troops of all the armies. The then Minister of Defence stabilized the staff and slightly increased the budget. The situation was not the same. Then, after the attacks, decisions were made. We have called for voluntary military service with you, by the way. At the time, in an information report that I had presented with Marianne Dubois, we proposed to transpose to the metropolis the adapted military service as it existed overseas. These decisions were therefore good. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With regard to the military budget, we must be a little humble: each government is making efforts. Some recall that the Minister of Defence was Secretary of State for the Budget in a previous government; I will say above all that she was excellent at this position!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u199	Great example of solidarity between socialists!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u200	It's just intellectual honesty, comrade!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u201	It's not about solidarity, it's about humility, and it's about remembering history a little bit. I come to my amendment, which is essentially technical. The aim is to increase the allocation of operational fuels by €6 million to take into account various factors that may affect this budget, including the increase in fuel taxation decided in the draft finance law, which is expected to increase the price of diesel oil by 7 cents, and the expected increase in the price of the oil barrel in 2019. The amendment seeks to neutralise their effects on the budget of our armed forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u203	Unfavorable opinion. This technical amendment calls for a technical response: the calculation of the operational fuel allocation provides for stabilizing mechanisms. Above all, fuels and fuels used by the Ministry of Defence, not subject to the internal consumption tax on energy products – ICTPE – are not affected by the provisions passed in the first part of the finance bill. There is therefore no reason to foresee such a trend in the expenditure in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u205	Fuels are an essential element of military activity. This is why the military headquarters specifically monitors the fuel supply. In the PLF for 2019, €458 million is entered for operational fuels. We follow the consumption of volumes, while making assumptions about the evolution of the price of the barrel. A cost of $60 per barrel and a parity of $1.10 per dollar were taken as construction assumptions. In order to cope with the inevitable variations in the price of the barrel, the price of the fuel charged to the armies by the trade account of the service of the military essences – I thank the Members who praised the importance and efficiency of this service – corresponds to the average unit cost, which allows the purchase price of the fuel to be smoothed over a long period of time. As a result, the fuel transfer tariff that is practised by the army's gasoline service takes into account not only the price of oil, but also its purchase cost, as well as the possible hedging mechanism that can be mobilised in the financial markets to stabilize that price. The increase in the price of the barrel of brent does not necessarily mean an immediate increase of the same level in the price of the fuels acquired by the armies. Furthermore, as you know, honourable Member, Article 5 of the Military Programming Act provides for a safeguard clause, which will ensure that the allocation for the fuel expenditure of the armed forces is adequate. For all these reasons, I suggest that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u206	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u207	The issue of fuel is absolutely essential. With regard to the variation in fuel prices, the Minister's answer was entirely acceptable. However, it seems to me that the question should be asked not in the short term – given the price variation – but in the long term – by considering the source of supply. I remain very puzzled on one point: oil production in France accounts for 1% of national consumption; The army's share in the latter is 0.7%. Why does France prevent itself from producing oil from 2040, knowing that the armies will continue to need it? This source of supply can be considered strategic. I would like to acknowledge that the latest law on programming, of which you boast the qualities, contains positive elements in terms of equipment. However, at a meeting of the Defence Committee, I asked an admiral on this point: will the boats we are buying today, whose lifespan will be about 60 years, continue to operate with oil? Yes. Will planes still use kerosene? Yes. Will tanks and trucks continue to operate on diesel? Yes. Why, then, forbid ourselves to pump in our soil a quantity of oil equivalent to that which the army consumes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u208	Amendment No 586 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u209	Amendment No 587 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u210	Mr Joaquim Pueyo, in support of Amendment No. 589, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u211	The purpose of this amendment is to significantly increase the resources made available to the Defence Conversion Agency, known as Defence Mobility, in order to better capture and support personnel leaving the Ministry of Armed Forces. I spoke about this in my speech on behalf of the Group. I recognize the efforts that have been made. However, according to the 2017 review of the conversion, prepared by Défense mobility, despite an increase in the rates, only 67% of the 2016 departures were captured and 60% of them became employed. This is an appeal amendment to insist on helping those who have sacrificed themselves for several years for the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u212	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u213	Major efforts are being made within the framework of the family plan. In addition, significant resources will be allocated in 2019 for conversion. I therefore invite you to withdraw the amendment; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u215	Mr President, I would like to thank you for drawing attention to a major element of the policy of reconversion of the military. The conversion agency will receive €36.7 million in funding in 2019. Every year, more than 14,000 military or civilian personnel are accompanied to employment and employers' satisfaction rate – 96% – is very high. The share of accompanied military personnel is increasing – in 2018, they were 70% of those leaving – and their access to employment rate is also increasing: it has increased from 60% in 2017 to 62% in 2018. Mr President, we share the same conviction that the Agency plays a decisive role and that it is intended to increase further in the years to come. The resources allocated to it in the PLF for 2019 are fully consistent with its ambition. I therefore wish the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u216	Mrs Severine Gipson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u217	Conversion is a priority of the Ministry of Armed Forces, which is reflected in the family plan. It has important resources, such as the military vocational training centre in Fontenay-le-Comte. They are not insufficient, contrary to what you would suggest, dear colleague. Meetings with companies organized by the Agency are the best advice for military personnel undergoing conversion. Whether they are at the end of a contract, have reached the age or rank limit, or wish to reorient their careers, Defence Mobility accompanies all military or civilian personnel of the Ministry of Armed Forces engaged in a professional transition. Their spouses can also benefit from this support. Being a soldier one day doesn't mean always being a soldier. Being a soldier is also an opportunity to gain experience and training that can be transposed into civilian life. These experiences are highly valued through recognized training and useful civilian skills. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that all of these practical and operational arrangements suffer from any failure or shortcomings which you seem to denounce.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u218	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u219	While I appreciated the minister's intervention, I do not understand Ms.Gipson's statement, which I know well. I have not denounced any shortcomings: on the contrary, I have highlighted the progress made in recent years. Don't make me say the opposite of what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u220	On the appropriations of the "Defence" mission, I am seized by the group The Republic on the move as well as by the group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 629.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u221	We could no doubt agree on this amendment, which aims to provide the Themis cell with four additional full-time equivalents. As a reminder, the task of this unit is to prevent harassment within the armed forces and to take care of the victims. She is already doing a very valuable job that we can all salute. However, the means at its disposal are still too limited, while the number of people who can apply for it is high. To inform them of their rights and to protect them, the cell must continue to rise in power. The support of victims requires a variety of qualified personnel. Listening to a witness in good conditions, for example, requires personnel to have a thorough knowledge of the military institution and its specificities. Combating harassment is a central issue in society in general and in the armed forces in particular. In addition to individual injustice, harassment is a poison that undermines group cohesion. But solidarity is nowhere more important than in the armies. The spirit of the body is an indispensable element for the proper functioning of the institution, and it is the inclusion that gives rise to it. No one can accept that this spirit is forged at the expense of any victim or scapegoat. If the case arises, there is a consensus between us and within the military hierarchy that we must act promptly and firmly. But this is only possible if the means are commensurate with the needs. The aim of this amendment is to adjust to each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u223	A fact-finding mission on the evaluation of anti-discrimination mechanisms within the armed forces has been established.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u224	I know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u225	Yes, since you are the co-rapporteur! I fully trust you to submit a quality report. With this in mind, it does not seem appropriate to call into question the existing arrangements now. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u226	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u227	We fully agree, honourable Member, with your diagnosis and the need for an immediate and unchallenged response: zero tolerance for any act of harassment or discrimination in the armed forces. You have recalled – no doubt in this Chamber – that the Themis cell is carrying out a remarkable action: it accompanies the victims, conducts investigations and ensures an important training role. However, training is an absolutely essential element in order to succeed, as we all wish, in the effective fight against discrimination. You understand, it's a departmental priority. I therefore look forward with great interest to the findings of the fact-finding mission. The Themis cell has all the means necessary to function effectively, taking into account the priorities I have indicated, in particular in order to draw up the annual balance sheet of activities provided for by the military programming law. If any shortcomings were found, I would be the first to consider them. But at this stage, I have no knowledge of such shortcomings. I therefore rely on the conclusions of the information mission for which you share responsibility with Christophe Lejeune. I invite you to withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u228	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u229	I have no doubt that Mr Lejeune and I will make a satisfactory report... I am pleased to hear that you are looking forward to it. I will withdraw my amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u231	... hoping that next year, on the basis of our report, we will be able to take the necessary decisions together to combat discrimination and harassment in our armies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u232	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 628.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u233	This amendment is perhaps a little less consensual than the previous one, since it aims to review French policy on the sale of arms – in Saudi Arabia in particular. When I asked the Prime Minister about this, it was you, the minister, who answered me and, as always, you told me that we were not selling weapons like breadsticks – still happy! What is certain is that such sales are decided at the highest level of the state in total opacity. You describe the procedure for authorizing these sales as robust. That's not true: if it allows sales to Saudi Arabia that commits crimes in Yemen, then it is not robust. What reasons would we have to believe that? It is not possible, in a democratic state, to limit itself to an annual report to informing parliamentarians. This report is above all a promotional brochure for industry in the sector! I would add that, if weapons are not breadsticks, then there is no reason to leave their trade in the hands of private interests: nationalization should prevail. The case of arms sales to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates is exemplary. These sales must cease immediately. French weapons help these countries commit war crimes in Yemen – certain crimes, the UN attests to this. Therefore, these sales are illegal as they contravene Articles 6 and 7 of the Arms Trade Treaty. Even if this is not the case, the end of deliveries is one of the means that France now has to compel the establishment of a ceasefire that is an absolute emergency – you have finally recognised it, Madam Minister. The famine threatens fourteen million people; Death hovered on five million children; An entire people is in the process of annihilation. France is contributing to this situation for oil and for a few tens of millions of euros of tax revenues related to arms sales. It can't last any longer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u234	What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u235	I understand that this is an appeal amendment. As Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, you will allow me not to enter into a debate that deserves to be discussed in depth and argued out. For this reason of form and opportunity, I ask you to withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u237	Mr President, we are continuing a debate that began many months ago: on the occasion of the examination of the budget, you are again asking the question of the moratorium on arms sales and on the services sold to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. I do not want to prolong this debate unnecessarily; You will agree, it is not in two minutes that we can discuss such serious issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u238	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u239	I have, moreover, had the opportunity on several occasions to recall this simple principle: we do not sell arms for export under any conditions. You're not mad at me not to go into more detail here; If you wish, I will be able, in other contexts – notably that of the Defence Committee, which has already organised a hearing on this subject a few months ago, which I thank her for – to go into more detail under the conditions under which France has introduced a very rigorous and controlled mechanism for arms exports. With regard to the conflict in Yemen, which is the very subject of your amendment, I have recently called for this war to cease as soon as possible. This is what the United States has also done this week by proposing a 30-day deadline for peace negotiations. That goes in the right direction. Like you, I consider the solution to this conflict to be political. I therefore think that we agree on many points. For this reason, I would like you to withdraw your amendment, failing which I will express an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u241	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u242	I fully support Mr Lachaud's amendment and argument. Without wishing to add any more, I would even say that I am ashamed to think that French weapons can serve, as in Yemen today – beyond dressing and all speeches – to massacre a people and children. We are told, of course, that this is not the case and that everything is controlled. But Germany has taken a completely different approach and has taken a firm decision, because it knows that the weapons sold can be used for massacres, especially of children. We should therefore have a real debate – and not only, Mr President, in the Committee on National Defence: our responsibility and that of our people is so great that we must debate the subject in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u244	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u245	I will not go back to the Minister's remarks or to the very specific procedures of the Interdepartmental Commission for the Study of Exports of War Materiel – CIEEMG. Mr. Lachaud referred to United Nations reports on war crimes. As chairman of the France-Yemen friendship group, I have read all these reports and I want to make the link with what the minister has said. The United Nations has indeed investigated and stopped about ten war crimes, some of which have been committed by the coalition, but others have also been committed by the Houthis. The investigations identified the nationality of the weapons used; I can show you the paintings, if you like, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u246	I will, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u247	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, there is no mention of French weapons in any of these war crimes. This confirms the professionalism of the interdepartmental commission in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u248	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u249	We can all be very embarrassed by this debate. We are obviously sensitive to respect for human rights and war crimes, whether proven or possible. At the same time, we must ask ourselves a fundamental question: if we are to have autonomous French weapons systems, our army is not large enough to be the only customer of this industry; So he has to export. So we need to know what we want: if we export, it is not only to preserve jobs in our country, but also to ensure that our nation has strategic autonomy. Mechanically, therefore, we are sometimes confronted with dilemmas of an ethical and moral nature. There is a choice to make, which affects the interests of the nation and ethical and moral problems. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] I wonder. President Hollande had refused to sell boats to Russia. We lost a lot of jobs and money. Has this changed anything to Russia's strategic agenda and commitments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u250	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u251	My speech will go in the same direction as Mr Furst's. We will not vote for Mr Lachaud's amendment for two reasons in principle. The first is that, as the minister has said, there is in France a system of control of arms sales which we believe is efficient. In this respect, the policy is likely to evolve on a case-by-case basis, but should be part of this monitoring mechanism. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The second reason for principle was perfectly expressed by Laurent Furst. We are all here, it seems to me, attached to France's strategic autonomy, but this implies that we are able to produce major weapons in our country – or, sometimes, in bilateral or trilateral cooperation. There is no strategic autonomy without a defence industry, which cannot be allowed to live with the sole orders of the French army. Export sales are therefore also needed. Let's just stick to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u252	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u253	I, too, have read the United Nations report and even met with Kamel Jendoubi, Chairman of the Group of Regional and International Eminent Experts on Yemen, whom I interviewed about weapons; He told me that the expert group was not looking into this because it was not part of his mandate. So there is nothing about weapons in the work of the United Nations. We are only asking for respect for the words of France, which signed the arms trade treaty. Colleagues in the Republican Group, Article 7 of this Treaty is very clear: as soon as there is suspicion that the weapons we sell could be used to commit war crimes, we must not sell them. There is respect for the word of France; You should be particularly careful about it. Finally, we are constantly told about the Europe of defence and the need to work with our European partners. However, the European Parliament has voted an embargo on the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Why don't we respect his decisions? Why, when a decision doesn't work out for us, do we say that we don't care about Europe, that Europe is not compulsory? At some point, we need a minimum of consistency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u254	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u255	It is useful to recall the facts. Firstly, France is arming a country that is anything but democratic – I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a point of consensus between us: let us look at what has happened here in Turkey. Secondly, we are arming a country that conscientiously massacres a neighbouring country: Yemen. Whether it is war crimes or not, no one can be satisfied with what is happening in Yemen. Thirdly, we are told not to worry, that we trace the weapons. Hat! The French need to know how we do it, because we have a lot of trouble believing in it. A debate on our arms and arms export policy is a healthy debate from a democratic point of view; In any country in the world, we have had a great debate of this nature in Parliament for a long time. But we don't have it – or, if we have it, it's very timid. Minister, we spend our time reacting, but after waiting for the others to react a lot, for fear of doing a little too much of it and making a good customer of our weapons industries angry. I hope that at some point – probably not in the context of the examination of this budget – we in this House will have a real debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u256	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u257	[[Mr. Christophe Blanchet applauds]] The holding of a debate in this House on arms sales is indeed a major issue, although, of course, we have no doubt that the interdepartmental committee is doing its work with the utmost seriousness. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided this week to set up an information mission whose co-rapporteurs will be Mr Jacques Maire and Mrs Michèle Tabarot. The issue will therefore be discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u258	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u259	Our colleague's appeal amendment allows us to open a genuine debate, which I believe is essential, as the Committee on Foreign Affairs has shown in an information report. Indeed, there is too much controversy about the subject; We have been alerted to this by many associations. Madam Minister, I would like to see a real debate in Parliament, and not just in the Defence Committee, in order to avoid any controversy. I trust what you're saying, but we need to go a little further.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u260	I put to the vote the appropriations of the Defence Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u261	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 64 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 61 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u262	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-02-O1045.u263	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the second part of the 2019 Finance Bill: Continuation of the review of appropriations for the Defence and Veterans Affairs missions, memory and relationship with the nation; Review of the appropriations of the "Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Rural Affairs" Mission and the "Agricultural and Rural Development" Trust Account. The meeting is adjourned.
