ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in certain bodies outside Parliament and to simplify the arrangements for their appointment (No 1138).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u2	Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u3	Mr President, the Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to conclude our examination of a bill with a text which is singular, symbolic and which comes at a very opportune moment. It is singular, first of all, because it is the result of a collaboration between Presidents François de Rugy and Gérard Larcher, and their teams, and it is co-signed by four political groups of our assembly. It is symbolic, then, because it deals with the role of Parliament, and it states that Parliament will now decide for itself, by law, the representation of Members of Parliament and Senators. The text contains 94 articles and covers more than one hundred and ten external bodies. We have been working with the team on an ants to find convergences. I would like to warmly thank our administrator, Guillaume Vola, the cabinet of the president of Rugy, in particular Léo Cohen and Éric Buge, my parliamentary attaché, Charline Onillon, as well as Isabelle Rauch, with whom we worked on the issues of parity, and Christophe Euzet, who was particularly involved in the matter. Another singularity that I must remember: the Senate has applied a procedure known as legislation in committee for this text, which does not exist in the House. This is a particularly interesting point to point out, in this period of debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u4	Debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u5	[[Smile]] ... have debated, or should have debated, the constitutional bill. Last interesting point: the Joint Joint Committee – CMP –, meeting on July 4, was an opportunity to work closely with our colleague Senator Loïc Hervé, whom I would like to thank in particular – I think he is looking at us. We have reached a compromise on four points. First of all, out of the thirteen requests for the removal of agencies made by the Senate, we accepted four requests, after consultation with each of the members involved in these organizations. Secondly, we have also accepted the three requests for the creation of new extra-parliamentary bodies: we have decided, among other things, that parliamentarians will serve on the departmental commission for inter-communal cooperation – CISC. The Government was concerned that too many parliamentarians would sit on these committees if the doors were opened too widely: we adopted an intermediate solution based on the model of the commissions competent for the provision of equipment for rural territories – DETR. Having sat personally for two years in a CISC in the Lower Rhine, I know the balance that it is necessary to build in these commissions, and I know that it will be preserved in this way. Thirdly, we agreed to clarify our position on the sensitive issue of the Higher Digital and Posts Commission. Finally, we wanted not to weaken the appointments already made by allowing already appointed members to complete their term of office, which the Senate has accepted. In the end, the solution we are proposing to you seems to me to be a balanced one: it is the result of work to bring our initial positions closer together. Finally, this text is timely because it is the first text that follows last week – it is often the case for a text on Monday (Sorry) – which was particularly invigorating and animated. And what a better idea than to resume our work with a text that is the subject of a consensus with the Senate, which has been enriched by two amendments by the NG and GDR groups aimed at incorporating in the law the pluralism of appointments, which was certainly provided for in the rules of procedure, but which is now engraved in the marble of the law, and which finally clearly sets out a new strong and innovative rule of parity, on which we worked with Isabelle Rauch, member of the delegation on women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, how much we count on your positive and enthusiastic vote for this singular and symbolic text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u6	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u7	Mr President, the rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, ladies and gentlemen, if the moment is singular, as the rapporteur has just pointed out, the proposal for a law to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in certain bodies outside the Parliament is equally so: in addition to the merits recalled by your rapporteur – who is a consensus with the Senate, who brings together on all benches and demands on parity – it has as a formal feature to have been carried by the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Senate, co-signed by four presidents of political groups, and tabled on the same day, symbolically, in the Assembly and in the Senate. It mobilised eight committee chairmen, as well as the delegation of the office responsible for parliamentary work, monitoring and studies. This joint work, carried out as soon as the text of the bill was prepared, continued on the occasion of the Joint Joint Committee, and I would like to commend the quality of the dialogue that the two rapporteurs, and through them the two assemblies, have established. The rationalization effort undertaken in the context of this bill has been deepened by the work of the CMP: the total number of extra-parliamentary bodies would be 173, a decrease of 14.4% compared to today. This effort is essential in that it aims to enable parliamentarians to play their full role where their presence and expertise are useful. The presence of parliamentarians will be maintained within the National Council of Performing Professions and the National Committee of the French Initiative for Coral Reefs – IFRECOR – as the National Assembly wished, as well as within the National Air Council, as the Senate wished. As proposed by the Senate, parliamentarians will be present on the board of the ANRU – National Agency for Urban Renewal. The Government takes note of the compromise reached by the two assemblies on this specific point, but considers that this provision does not exhaust the question of the functioning and governance of the ANRU, which must be the subject of a reflection involving all the actors concerned, including deputies and senators. The Joint Joint Committee also returned to the merger, which the Senate called for, between the High Council for Associative Life and the Advisory Committee of the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, which the Government welcomes, given the specific nature of these two structures. I had tried to convince the Senate on this subject, but your rapporteur was very effective and better than I was in this matter. The Joint Joint Committee has also carried out specific work on the conditions for the entry into force of the law, in particular by ensuring that the provisions relating to the sanctioning power of the Airport Harm Control Authority can enter into force as soon as the law is promulgated, which we hope will take effect as soon as possible. Finally, with regard to the participation of parliamentarians in the departmental committees for inter-communal cooperation, the compromise drafted by the CMP is based on the model of the committees responsible for DETR, which is well known to mayors in particular. The Government believes that attention should be paid to ensuring that the functioning of these bodies, which deal with cooperation within the communal bloc, remains flexible and fluid. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] In conclusion, I invite you to adopt the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on this bill, which is intended to make it possible for parliamentarians to participate better in bodies outside Parliament – OEP – and to improve the readability of their action for our citizens. The reduction in the number of parliamentarians will, of course, increase the commitment of parliamentarians in these bodies. Some of them may, at last, be able to meet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u8	In the general debate, Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur of the Joint Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the MODEM and related groups are pleased that agreement has been reached in the Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on the presence of parliamentarians in bodies outside Parliament. This text, which we will now adopt, draws the consequences of Article 13 of the Organic Law for confidence in political life, which marked an important step from the beginning of this mandate, with the aim of modernising political practices and meeting the new demands and expectations of our fellow citizens. Under this organic law, and since 1 July 2018, a parliamentarian can no longer be appointed in that capacity in an external institution or body only by virtue of a legislative provision, which must also define the conditions for designation. This bill therefore meets this requirement, setting clear rules for the appointment of parliamentarians while rationalizing the very long list of non-parliamentary bodies. We would like to acknowledge the important work that was carried out jointly by the National Assembly and the Senate on this bill, tabled in identical terms in both assemblies, as well as the investment of the rapporteurs, who managed to reach a compromise text during the Joint Joint Committee. The first objective of this bill is to lay down rules for the appointment of deputies and senators to non-parliamentary bodies. We are very pleased to see that a mechanism has been found to ensure parity when appointing parliamentarians. We also welcome the fact that particular attention to political pluralism has been recognized in the text. This bill is also carrying out an important simplification work, which we would like to highlight. Since the Organic Law for Confidence in Political Life explicitly provides that the appointment of a parliamentarian to an extra-parliamentary body must be based exclusively on a provision of a legislative nature, it was necessary to harmonise the legal bases of bodies outside Parliament that we wished to maintain. For this reason, several bodies have been elevated to the legislative level. This bill also provided an opportunity to remove certain bodies with a legal basis, but whose low level of activity did not justify retention. Finally, we share the choice that has been made in this text not to create a new body outside Parliament and to refer these creations to thematic texts. The MODEM and related groups consider that this bill extends the positive effects of the organic law on confidence in political life. By laying down clear and precise rules for the appointment of parliamentarians in bodies outside Parliament, affirming the principles of parity and respect for plurality and carrying out an important work of simplification and harmonisation, this text improves the transparency of our institutions. As we pointed out at the first reading, we hope that the important work on the census of non-parliamentary bodies that has been carried out in the preparation of this bill will serve as a starting point for effective monitoring of the activities of these bodies, for better information to the citizens and thus to continue our efforts to restore confidence in political action. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, the MODEM and related groups will vote on the text resulting from the work of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u10	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are considering today at last reading comes from a joint initiative of the President of the Senate and the President of the National Assembly. It is also, I would point out, tabled by four group presidents of our House. It is therefore a transpartisan text, which stems directly from a measure introduced in the organic law of 15 September 2017 for confidence in political life. This provision allows, as of July 1, 2018, the appointment of a Member of Parliament in that capacity to an external institution or body only under a legislative provision. It was therefore necessary to make the clarifications provided for in the proposed law. Extra-parliamentary bodies are necessary for democratic life, not only because of their role in monitoring government action and evaluating public policies, but also because they enable the bodies concerned to better understand the aspirations of our fellow citizens and to be closer to the ground. However, our country has nearly 200 organizations, whose legal status, subject matter, activity levels and appointment procedures differ considerably. In recent decades, their numbers have increased at an ever-increasing rate, an inflation which, together with the absence of clear rules governing their existence, has created confusion, which must be put to an end. Determining which of these organizations should remain was not an easy task. The National Assembly, after extensive preparatory work, had retained 175 extra-parliamentary bodies. The Senate, more demanding or more rigorous in its work, had retained 164. The Joint Joint Committee, in a commendable compromise effort, which we must welcome, has finally retained the number of 173 extra-parliamentary bodies, a reduction of 15 per cent from the current number. While welcoming this effort to rationalise and the fact that the principle of respect for pluralism has been included in the text, even though the rules of procedure of our Assembly already provide for this, I particularly welcome the fact that, as the Secretary of State has said, the CMP has maintained the inclusion of the IFRECOR National Committee, which we had introduced at first reading, among the bodies which are high on the legislative level. The French Coral Reef Initiative aims to protect France's marine heritage. I recall that three years ago, under the patronage of its then President, the National Assembly hosted a symposium celebrating its fifteenth anniversary. France is the world's fourth largest reef power, and 75% of the French reefs are Caledonian. In the Corail Sea Park, which is the second largest marine park in the world, France has one third of the planet's pristine reefs, i.e. near-virgin reefs – an invaluable asset. It was essential that this body, which works throughout the French overseas, should be able to continue the work it has undertaken for more than fifteen years. I therefore sincerely thank our two assemblies for their listening, which has resulted in the inclusion of this body at that level. Furthermore, concerning the entry into force of the provisions of the text, the Senate accepted the request of the National Assembly not to weaken the appointments already made, delaying the abolition of extra-parliamentary bodies of legislative level until 1 July 2022. The Joint Joint Committee thus managed to reconcile the respective contributions of the National Assembly and the Senate. We can only congratulate and commend the constructive work of the rapporteurs of our two assemblies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, the IDU Group, the Independent Group, will vote in favour of this text, which should improve the functioning of bodies outside our assemblies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u12	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot begin our examination of this text without appreciably appreciating the presence of Mr Christophe Castaner, Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament, on the bench of the Government. I would like to stress this because we have been missing a great deal here in the last few days from other obligations whose necessity and effects can be doubted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u14	Only one being you miss and everything is depopulated...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u15	I take note with satisfaction of the wise decision, which I, for my part, have been calling for since the beginning and which has eventually been taken, to postpone consideration of a constitutional reform which we could not continue under the conditions of political crisis which have been developing for several days, especially since the serious facts which are brought to our knowledge again call into question the functioning of our institutions and, no doubt, the foundations of the reform in question. Let us come to the text that brings us together today, a technical text, proposed by the President of the National Assembly and the presidents of the groups La République en marche, Les Républicains, Mouvement Démocratique et affiliés, and UDI, Agir et indépendants. It aims to establish clear rules regarding the presence of parliamentarians in bodies outside Parliament. To date, there have been no consistent rules governing the appointment of members of the House of Commons or senators invited to serve on these bodies. This bill allows for the harmonization of practices and the simplification of the legislative provisions relating to our intervention in the 193 non-parliamentary bodies listed, while ensuring that the principles of parity and pluralism are applied. This proposal is part of the logical continuation of the Organic Law for Confidence in Political Life of 15 September 2017, which provides that a parliamentarian will be appointed under a legislative provision determining the conditions for his appointment. This allows us to free ourselves from the yoke of the executive, who until then was the author of the regulatory provisions of these bodies, even though we were the only ones concerned with them. I would like to point out that the presence of parliamentarians in these bodies is essential since they are a privileged observatory of the major problems facing our citizens and they have consultative and decision-making powers. They therefore give us the opportunity not only to make Parliament radiate from a broader perspective, but also to strengthen its power. However, the effect of this bill is to legalize some 30 bodies, not to raise some 20 to the legislative level and even to abolish some of them. I wonder about the criteria adopted, deciding on the legislative legitimacy of some, refusing it to others, leading even to the removal of those who, we are told, would not meet sufficiently. What, then, are the elements that make it possible to question their raison d'être? Why, among other bodies, have the National Commission for Planning, Planning and Land Use, the National Council for Planning and Land Development and the Conference on Rural Development been abolished? As these decisions do not seem to flow from our sources, we regret that a precise assessment is not undertaken to ensure that these choices will not be detrimental to public policy and debate. We therefore have reservations about this. Above all, we wish to highlight two important points. It will be necessary to ensure that, within the framework of respect for the principle of parity, the appointment of women is not confined to agencies of secondary or lower interest. Political pluralism will also have to be made one of the criteria for appointing our parliamentarians to these bodies. You have stressed, Mr rapporteur, that two amendments have been adopted to this effect. We will ensure that the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate do not reserve marginal posts to the opposition, thus jeopardizing the political balance of the Republic. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to take this opportunity to refer to an unacceptable situation that we are facing, even if its subject matter does not fall within the scope of the text. At present, in the Assembly, only the parliamentary groups of La France insoumise and the Democratic and Republican Left are not represented in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. France thus acts as a bad pupil, at the expense of the Council's ideal based on political pluralism. We are taking advantage of this bill to make this request, hoping that it will finally be heard. We cannot, in fact, be set aside when it comes to taking decisions concerning human rights, democracy and the protection of minorities and the rule of law, the main topics addressed by this parliamentary assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u16	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u17	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome you, Mr rapporteur, for the quality of the work you have done and the spirit in which you have put it forward throughout the drafting of this bill. It deals with extra-parliamentary bodies, which have so far not been subject to a uniform legal regime – set up for some by legislation, for others by regulation – and without the presence of parliamentarians within them being precisely regulated. However, the 2017 Organic Law for Trust in Political Life, already mentioned on several occasions, precisely suggested that from 1 July 2018, a Member of Parliament could no longer be appointed in that capacity in an external institution or body only by virtue of a legislative provision. We can therefore only welcome this joint bill, which has given rise to fruitful collaborative work. As far as the perimeter is concerned, we have almost legislated at constant law. We were guided by a number of principles. The first was to ensure better representation of the people in these bodies through parliamentarians. In addition, we have raised the status of certain bodies at the legislative level, so as to avoid changes by order-in-council. We have unified and simplified the procedures for appointing these bodies to the presidency. We have ensured the pluralism of representation, which has already been said, and introduced the principle of parity, which has already been implemented in practice. More specifically, at the request of the delegation to women's rights, it was necessary to lay down the basis for the harmonization of appointment rules by providing a legal basis for the practice of the legislature of appointing men and women on a par. Beyond the definitive recognition of the principle of parity, this legislative framework also aimed to improve the representation of different political trends in non-parliamentary bodies and to ensure the plurality of appointments, which everyone called for. It was also a matter of generalizing the principle of the appointment of parliamentarians to these bodies by the President of the National Assembly, except in cases where there is a derogation regime, as has already been said. After fruitful and constructive discussions, we decided to raise to the legislative level the legal basis of a number of external bodies, and to remove others, in the light of a rather objective criterion, namely the vitality of these bodies. Those who cannot justify a certain vitality are doomed to disappear at the end of this legislature, while those who report real activity are called upon to be brought up to legislative rank. Finally, we have made some clarifications regarding the replacement of parliamentarians who preside over one of these bodies, which is, once again, quite salutary. We could expect the Joint Joint Committee to reach agreement, as our work was carried out in consultation throughout the procedure. Our discussions have focused on some technical adjustments, which we can only welcome and on which I will not come back here. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Group of the European People's Party is, of course, looking forward to the outcome of this text and invites you to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to allow the last two speakers in the general debate to join us, I shall suspend the meeting until 16:45.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u19	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u20	The meeting was resumed. Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u21	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you, although it is not surprising, for the extreme elegance with which you have allowed me to join the public sitting, taking into account the work being done by the Committee of Inquiry. In view of your concern to ensure the quality of our work and to safeguard the rights of the opposition, I would also like to take this opportunity to remind the Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, the Chairman of the Committee on Laws, that this approach could also be accompanied by the provision of a more appropriate room, which would allow us to intervene in the best possible conditions. I would like to repeat, Mr President, how much I appreciate the fact that you have allowed us to join the debates in the Chamber. As we indicated at first reading, we will vote on this bill. The approach taken by the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, which is to promote both parity and plurality of opinions, will, I imagine, lead to the support of all the Members present in this House. This approach, which allows us to codify our customs by recalling, by means of a very precise list, the conditions for the participation of elected officials in extra-parliamentary bodies, contributes to the modernization of the institutions and respect for different sensitivities. So we can only subscribe to it. [[Smile]] I mentioned at first reading an element which has worsened: the participation of Members in the lives of our constituencies. At that time, I mentioned the supply of equipment in rural areas, an exciting subject that is passionate about Mr.President and myself – and you too, Mr. Secretary of State, but you were, or at least your alternate had to be better treated than I was in my department. [[Smile]] The Fund for the Development of Associative Life, which Mr Blanquer is now responsible for, is now added to this DETR. The mere fact that he has this responsibility should already cause us concern, but it is also a rather special arrangement, which involves the department without knowing exactly what the departmental councils have to do with this matter, and which excludes the deputies from the representation list drawn up by the association of mayors. Thus, in my department – but this problem is likely to be rectified – for three representatives, the Socialist Party, which is an important force locally, has not been asked to provide a list.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u22	That'll be the last one to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u23	[[Smile]] The president of the association has provided a list of members of En marche and the right – moreover, no one knows who is on the right and who is on the move in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques... I am convinced, however, that recent events will allow us all to gain a greater understanding of respect for oppositions. Apart from this question, which is essential to me because I am first a provincial and the representative of the Béarn in this House, one can only agree with your approach and applaud your willingness to modernize this aspect of parliamentary life, namely participation in outside bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u24	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u25	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing us to speak in this debate. I understand that there has been a coordination problem and I would like to ask you, because it seems that hearings of the committee of inquiry are scheduled for the rest of the week, as we are going to look at the immigration and asylum legislation: perhaps it would be important to coordinate the committee's work a little better with the work in session, so that the members of the committee of laws can be present in the Chamber. I have no doubt, however, that you have anticipated it and that we can now have these discussions together. The bill before us today is intended to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in certain bodies outside Parliament and to simplify the way in which they are appointed. It is the translation of Article 13 of the Organic Law of 15 September 2017 for Trust in Public Life, which provides that as from 1 July 2018 a parliamentarian may no longer be appointed in that capacity in an external institution or body only under a legislative provision which determines the conditions for his designation. These bodies often allow parliamentarians to be involved in establishing a record, evaluating, monitoring and monitoring law enforcement, and in direct dialogue with, among others, actors or actors on the ground and associations. The purpose of this bill is therefore to clarify the rules governing this presence, to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in these bodies and to simplify the scope of extra-parliamentary bodies. We continue to share, as a whole, the objective of clarifying this text. There are, to date, 193 bodies with parliamentarians in 112 cases by law and for the rest by regulation. There has been real inflation in this area, with 58 new instances since October 2014 and 660 Senate appointments, 700 in the Assembly. The parliamentary shuttle has made it possible to remove more and we would therefore reach 173 extra-parliamentary bodies. Our disappointment, however, persists. Our group, La France insoumise, wanted to push parliamentary debate and decision-making on three points, in order to avoid conflicts of interest and the grabbing of these committees by the majority alone, to guarantee the transparency of the nomination procedure and to democratise these same procedures. We believe that the appointment should not be the result of a decision by the President of the Chamber concerned, but rather of a vote by public ballot or even a drawing of lots among the volunteers. We therefore proposed a series of amendments. The first was to replace by a vote by public ballot the appointment by the President of the House concerned. In order to give an unfavorable opinion to our request, the rapporteur argued that many of these bodies would make such a procedure tedious, but if we decide to reduce their number and the pace of their creation, as our group proposes, then it will be possible for us to set up a more democratic procedure. We also wanted to introduce a dose of drawing lots, which would have made it possible to involve more Members in bodies outside Parliament and not just leave the last word to the majority rule. We were still proposing the introduction of an article aimed at avoiding conflicts of interest, which are, as we know, one of the grounds for discrediting political representation. Rules of incompatibility within Parliament must also be able to be applied outside. Moreover, what is compatible with the simple parliamentary mission may be incompatible with the missions of the extra-parliamentary body. A further examination of incompatibility was therefore desirable. That's what we're proposing. In our view, the supervision of non-parliamentary bodies by a common statute would also have improved the text by enabling citizens and their representatives to better understand, evaluate and monitor the work done. We believe that the transparency of applications and decision-making processes is important. We therefore wish to introduce more publicity into the nomination mechanisms, with the publication of the nomination papers and, where appropriate, the ballots, as well as the possibility of publicity of the hearings. Finally, we proposed and continue to consider the immediate application of parity to be useful. The reasons for delaying this proposal do not seem clear to us. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We will therefore vote in favour of this bill, while noting the persistent shortcomings that it suffers from. Do not doubt that we will continue to propose these provisions through all possible parliamentary channels.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u26	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u27	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u28	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u29	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u30	The next item is the debate, on re-reading, on the bill, as amended by the Senate, for the freedom to choose one's professional future (No. 1168, 1177). The Conference of Presidents decided several weeks ago to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion, on the basis of time allocated to the fifteen-hour groups. Each group has the following speaking times: for the La République on the move, three hours and forty-five minutes; for the group The Republicans, three hours and forty minutes; for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, one hour and five minutes; for the IDU group, Act and Independent, one hour and fifty minutes; for the New Left group, one hour and forty-five minutes; for the La France group, one hour and twenty-five minutes and for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, one hour and twenty-five minutes. Non-attached Members have a time of fifty minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u31	I would like to remind you, in order to make it perfectly clear, that the points of order are, of course, of right, but that when there are issues that have nothing to do with a point of order, they will be able to continue but will then be counted against the time allocated to each group for this discussion. Mr Dharréville has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u32	I feel a little compelled to make a point of order because I read, in a dispatch, that you would have said, Madam Minister, that the matter that everyone is talking about "is also used – I think no one is fooled – as a means of obstructing the National Assembly" to the constitutional reform bill, "which affects the number of parliamentarians, their interests, their benefits." I felt it as a challenge to our probity, our responsibility, our ethics. Moreover, it is an error of diagnosis because the reasons which led us to oppose the examination of this text are of a completely different nature, of a political nature. If it is a question of recognising, by the words you have said, that this project weakens Parliament, whose act: that is what I think too. But this question is regrettable at the beginning of our debates, especially since we expect the discussion which comes from many answers and many developments in the text. Each of our interventions will meet the requirement to assume our role and responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u33	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor for a point of order as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u34	Some of the amendments I tabled were opposed to inadmissibility under Article 40. In essence, these amendments dealt with the "junior apprenticeship" scheme: however, when we look closely at the issue, we see that if the cost is deferred to the apprenticeship scheme, this does not create an additional burden because the young people in question are no longer in the formal school system. There's really a lot of work to do. Article 40 poses a number of problems. We debated this during the constitutional reform: it is a real subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u35	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u36	Mr President, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs – dear Brigitte Bourguignon –, ladies and gentlemen the rapporteurs – dear Catherine Fabre, Aurélien Taché, and Nathalie Elimas –, ladies and gentlemen the draftsmen – dear Sylvie Charière and Graziella Melchior –, ladies and gentlemen the rapporteurs for information – dear Pierre Cabaré, Thierry Michels, Ericka Bareigts, Justine Benin and Josette Manin –, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the draft law for the freedom to choose his professional future, which we are discussing today as a new reading, demonstrates a profound and strengthened desire to change scale in the fight against birth, socio-economic or geographical determinisms. You have already expressed this will at first reading, by usefully complementing and passing this bill massively. A result of several months of consultation and negotiation with the social partners, as well as intense inter-ministerial work and field visits, this bill creates new rights, concrete, easily mobilised, adapted to our time, i.e. capable of constituting a genuine professional protection, universal, simple and effective, in the service of individual and collective emancipation. However, this desire to enable everyone to rise from their condition through work and training is, I believe, now reinforced for three reasons. The first is that this will has guided you into a Joint Joint Committee. If you have not been able to reach an agreement with the upper chamber last Monday, it is because your discussions have quickly taken hold on elements essential to this change of scale, that is to say, on the conditions indispensable for the realization of the presidential commitment to the profound renovation of our social model, so that the republican promise of emancipation is a reality for all. However, such a blockage had not taken place during the consideration of the enabling bills to take the measures to strengthen the social dialogue and ratification of these ordinances, Act I of the renovation of our social model. I regret this failure, but could it have been otherwise when the alternatives that were proposed to you would have led to the status quo? How can we be determined to break with the fatality of the exclusion of some of our fellow citizens from the world of work while at the same time allowing us to maintain the foundations of a system, which, despite the sincere voluntarism of the actors, fails neither to stem mass unemployment – especially that of young people – nor to protect the most vulnerable from the lack or obsolescence of skills, nor to ensure that our SMEs and TPEs grow and create jobs, because they do not find the skills they need in the labour market? These obstacles, these persistent discriminations, these flaws of anticipation of future changes, we must lift them up to open our field of possible, individual and collective. It is therefore necessary to break clearly with a logic of statistical treatment of unemployment, by providing our citizens with active protections against precariousness, in particular through easy and wide access to the first asset of the 21st century: skills. This is the condition of our economic performance, but also of the social progress, attractiveness and cohesion of our territories. Yes, from our territories, because acting so that everyone can get on board the growth train is essential to the dynamism of all our territories – urban, peri-urban, rural, ultra-marine – that are evolving in a national and international competitive environment. This is not artificially decreed, but requires the unprecedented effort of EUR 15 billion from the five-year skill investment plan to train one million young dropouts and one million long-term jobseekers. It also goes, first and foremost, in a complementary way, by reshaping our systems on the basis of a new paradigm: trust and its corollary, accountability. To give everyone the means to establish and carry out their professional projects is indeed the key to the success of the countries which have won their bet against mass unemployment, especially that of young people and the most vulnerable. The second reason for your increased willingness to allow everyone to rise from their condition, to emancipate themselves, is your determination to reinforce in a new reading the provisions of the bill constituting new concrete rights, in order to give our fellow citizens the freedom to choose the paths to develop their professional potential and to guarantee equal opportunities for an inclusive society. With the strong expectations of our fellow citizens in this area, and in line with your parliamentary work, you have in fact logically re-established in the Committee on Social Affairs, with a few exceptions, most of the text that you adopted at first reading,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u37	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u38	That's consistency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u39	It's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u40	... in particular Title I, which frees the levers for acquiring the skills of initial and continuing training. While ensuring that the transition phase of apprenticeship and vocational training systems is legally and operationally secure, you have confirmed your commitment to putting young people and their families, businesses and assets at the heart of these systems. This requires the introduction of flexible and thus reactive devices. Of course, I am thinking of the free creation of CFAs – centres for the training of apprentices – in all territories, of the possibility of entering apprenticeships until the age of 29 – against 26 today – and of the new definition of training action, which allows for the inclusion of innovative forms of training. I am also thinking of the powerful mechanism of conversion and promotion through alternation, called "Pro A", which you have created. You have handed over, if you allow me this expression, the "actors behind the wheel" by reaffirming legible, accessible and fairer devices. I am also thinking about monetizing the CPF – personal training account. The increased fees will be EUR 500 for all, per year, and EUR 800 for the least qualified, i.e. EUR 5000 and EUR 8000 respectively over ten years. In addition, part-time workers, who are 80 per cent of women, will benefit from the same annual abundance as full-time workers. I welcome the introduction of a re-visit clause at first reading, which will ensure that acquired rights are regularly updated over time. Accessibility is also the digital application of the CPF, but let us be clear: relying on new technologies to facilitate access to rights does not mean exempting ourselves from human support, on the contrary. Thus, all those who wish to do so will be able to have free professional development advice, finally financed by mutualisation. Furthermore, let us stress the massive simplification of apprenticeship through the introduction of contract costs or the merger of the multiple aids for apprentices, the remuneration of which, I would remind you, will be increased and the autonomy strengthened with the aid of 500 euros for the driving licence. You have re-established more transparent arrangements guaranteeing a high level of quality of training, in particular through a better orientation thanks to the transparency of success rates and vocational integration, thanks to the reinforced role of the regions in this field and the increase of the logic of bridges between apprenticeship and school status, as well as the development of campuses of trades bringing together all sectors. The quality of training will also require the co-writing of professional qualifications and diplomas by the social partners in the branches and by the State. The establishment of skills operators, whose tasks will be refocused on advice and forward-looking management of jobs and skills and advice to TPEs and SMEs, are part of these essential arrangements. Finally, the creation of France competences, a quadripartite body – the State, regions and social partners – will enable the system to be better regulated through the certification of training bodies and the CFAs. With regard to its powers in the field of financial equalisation, France responsibilities will ensure the distribution between the branches and the operators of competences to which they adhere, but also the payment of the financial amounts to the regions in respect of apprenticeship. The regions, which are based in France Compétences, will have an additional allocation dedicated to spatial planning. It will be designed to supplement, in rural areas and in the priority areas of the city, the cost of the contract, which we consider to be non-legislative in nature. Finally, you have strengthened international openness by promoting the development of Erasmus pro and the experimentation of ocean mobilities overseas. In this regard, I would like to recall my proposal to work with all ultramarine MPs to adapt the provisions of this bill to different local contexts. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you have reintroduced into the text systems where all the actors, who are in their place and are responsible, will guarantee the effectiveness of the rights we create. This philosophy is also at the heart of the new mechanisms to support the return to employment of our fellow citizens who have lost their jobs, because they demand and need much more than just remuneration. Helping them to find a job more quickly means, at Pôle Emploi, the sense of experimenting with the logbook and the new methods of assessing the reasonable offer of employment, as well as the review of checks and penalties. It is also the meaning of creating new rights for resigning and self-employed employees. Under certain conditions, they will benefit from the unemployment insurance safety net. In this sense, you have taken care to rebalance the adjustments that were made in the Senate because it is essential to provide additional financial security and to outline a new active social protection that secures mobility in the labour market and takes into account the increasing diversity of statutes during a working life. I am therefore pleased that you have re-established in committee the provisions on platform workers, which are part of both our step-by-step approach to universality and our desire not to allow anyone to be trapped in an activity unless they no longer meet their expectations. Opening up to all possibilities is also what motivated your particular vigilance to secure all the provisions introduced at first reading in favour of an inclusive employment policy and at the service of real equality between women and men. In addition to your constant attention to ensuring that persons with disabilities are better taken into account in the systems of apprenticeship and continuing training, you adopted in committee in a new reading all the provisions resulting from the consultation with the social partners and associations, which I conducted in parallel with the discussion of this bill with my colleague Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disability. These measures are also based on the mission of your colleague MP Adrien Taquet, as well as that of Dominique Gillot, President of the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities. We must – and you have been at the meeting – mobilise all the mechanisms of common law and ensure that the obligation to employ disabled workers is the real lever for the direct employment of disabled people, of which I would remind you that 500,000 remain registered at the Employment Centre. Also, I am pleased that you have confirmed the inclusion in this bill of the historic provisions contained in the commitment "Going to Inclusive Business 2018-2022" that we signed last Thursday with the appropriate companies. In particular, you have approved the possibility of experimenting with the "start-up contract", i.e. to open up the possibility for voluntary adapted companies to propose courses of up to 24 months of re-employment and then to access a job in other companies. Similarly, you have given your green light to the experimentation of adapted temporary work enterprises. The aim is to bring out specialists in temporary work and placement aimed at temporary workers with disabilities. Finally, you have created the conditions for better support for people who are available in ordinary companies for recruitment. Thanks to these measures, I am confident that we will change our scale in this area and give full meaning to our republican values of freedom, equality and fraternity. Only for the provisions relating to the enterprises adapted in this bill and the budgetary effort in the finance bill, it is 40000 more disabled people, each year, who will no longer be locked in unemployment but will be able to work in a company, that is, doubling the current capacity! Changing the scale of professional equality between women and men is also what you have reaffirmed in your new reading by consolidating the major advances resulting from intensive consultation with the social partners, carried out with my colleague Marlène Schiappa, Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men. These measures, including the powerful obligation to achieve equal pay for work of equal value, are part of the presidential commitment to make equality between women and men the major cause of the quinquennium. With regard to the prevention of harassment, you have confirmed the training, awareness-raising and accountability measures of all actors. The last element that demonstrates your strengthened desire to empower everyone is your determination to give all the means to the actors to effectively combat confinement in precarious work as well as to develop sustainable and quality employment. For, let us recall, today short contracts account for 87% of hirings and these contracts are shorter and shorter – one third of CSDs last a day, or even less! – and they correspond very much to re-employment at the same employer. Over the past 30 years, the proportion of CSDs of less than one month in all CSDs has increased from 57% to 83%. How can we build our lives when we don't know if we're still in employment tomorrow? To remedy this, you have, on the one hand, reintroduced in committee Article 29 which allows for the introduction of a new criterion for modulating the rate of employers' unemployment insurance contributions. This is a bonus-malus system, which you said it could take into account the sector of activity; and in the case of the temporary sector, assign the temporary tasks to the user companies, in order to empower them in the fight against excessive precariousness. But this fight against precarious work calls for a comprehensive and coherent reform of our unemployment insurance system. For at present, the rules of unemployment insurance favour the integration of some people into long-term unemployment, and do not sufficiently empower employers. These rules must therefore be changed. This also calls for the social partners, whose newly elected officials have recently expressed the wish for an ambitious social agenda, to be involved in this reform of the system. Therefore, as announced by the President of the Republic before the Congress and presented to the social partners at the multilateral meeting on 17 July, the Government wishes to entrust them with the task of negotiating new unemployment insurance agreements without waiting for the expiry of the current agreement in September 2020. This negotiation will be based on a scoping document submitted to prior consultation of the social partners. In particular, it will aim to change the current rules to better combat precariousness, empower employers, encourage jobseekers to return to employment and review the link between insurance and solidarity, opening up the possibility for the social partners to take longer-term unemployment into better consideration in the compensation of jobseekers. This possibility of broadening the scope and favouring the intervention of the social partners without yielding anything, however, as regards the reform objectives which we are pursuing with regard to unemployment insurance, the Senate rejected it. But because unemployment cannot and must not be the only horizon of millions of French, this possibility, you have seized it and resolutely acted in committee on a new reading, which I welcome. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, "the present is not a powerful past, it is the moment of choice and action," wrote Simone de Beauvoir. That is why I invite you at this moment to choose to act so that the present of each of our fellow citizens, young, job-seekers and employees, is no longer dictated by his past, but by the conviction that he will be able, whatever his condition, to conquer the future. Let us therefore be determined to take action to enable everyone to have the means to build freely, much more than today, his own path of professional success through collective protections, i.e. to choose the space in which he can have more confidence in himself, dare to engage in projects, express all his talent, transmit it and thus contribute to the whole society by enjoying equally full solidarity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Creating this space of social emancipation through work and training, which gives everyone their chance, is the guarantee of our economic prosperity and collective social progress. That is the ambition of the bill that we have built together to date, that we will consolidate over the next few hours, and that we will keep an eye on the effectiveness of implementation in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u41	Mrs Fabre, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u42	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, one month after its adoption by a large majority at first reading, the bill on freedom to choose one's professional future is back before our House for a new reading. This new review is the result of the failure of the Joint Joint Committee last Monday, illustrating the gap between our two assemblies in the approach to this bill. Despite high-quality exchanges with Senate rapporteurs, the magnitude of the differences will have made this return to rereading inevitable. Thus, the reaffirmation of the role of the regions by senators upsets the balance resulting from our first-reading work on the governance of learning policy. The deconcentration towards the first actors concerned, apprentices, training centres and professional branches, who are to be entrusted with more responsibilities, has been deeply challenged by the adoption of both a multiannual strategy defined by the Regional Council and binding on the branches as well as the operators of competences and the granting to the branches and regions of joint competence on these same issues. Thus the message of this alternation reform must remain clear: we need regions on orientation, to define guidelines within the framework of the contract for a regional plan for the development of vocational training and guidance – I will defend an amendment clarifying this point – in order to adjust the financing when economic development or the planning of the territory so requires. But we want to simplify the funding of alternations, entrust them to a single collector, ensure funding for each apprenticeship or professionalization contract, better inform young people's choices and allow the most efficient bodies to develop, without any constraints other than qualitative ones. The governance of vocational training itself has been the subject of adjustments which our assembly rejected by a large majority at first reading. Several of the mechanisms chosen in the Senate had come back to the pitfalls of the past, whether one thinks of the competence entrusted to the regions to designate the operators of the council in professional evolution – while this is a key mission of France's competences – or of the creation of a plethora of board of directors of this new institution. Our committee work, therefore, has made it quite logical to re-establish the main advances that have been made by our assembly at first reading and then deleted by the Senate. The central role of the digital platform of the personal training account has thus been restored, the harmonisation of the quality criteria between France's competences and the bodies for assessing higher education, the clear distribution of competences on learning and guidance, the targeting of the single learning aid or the more flexible criteria for setting the level of management of alternance contracts by the branch. On the other hand, we have removed – in keeping with a constant position since first reading – the Senate's additions to the internalised management of the personal training account by companies, to the training of teachers who are under regulatory authority, or to the learning governance already mentioned. These differences between our two chambers should not cause us to lose sight of certain points of agreement which, for some, contrast with the positions expressed by the opposition in our Chamber. I am thinking in this way of monetizing the personal training account, of the scope of the skills development plan, of strengthening regional guidance skills, of unlocking the CFA offer or of the new financial architecture. These points of agreement reinforce us in the choices expressed at first reading and will logically deserve to be maintained until the end of the shuttle. When we begin our public debate on a bill with 98 articles still under discussion, it is essential to reaffirm our commitment to the freedom of assets in defining their career paths. Training should not be prescribed to a passive and spectator, but it should be chosen in an enlightened and committed manner so that everyone can access these rights, not always the same, i.e. the executives of large companies. Finally, freedom for young people with whom failure must end their orientation, instead plebiscite the discovery of trades so that alternance training is recognized at its fair value. What is at stake is the republican promise of social mobility, the end of social determinism. So this is a major issue. To achieve this, let us keep in mind three driving threads that will remain equally necessary in the course of law enforcement. The first principle is the readability and simplification of our vocational training system. In a historically intermediated landscape, where institutional break-up is equal only to the multiplicity of norms and legal instability, a great exercise of clarification could no longer be left behind. The second principle is that of trust, confidence in the ability to act. It is essential to lift the locks that hinder the construction by each of its professional projects while offering support to those who need it and to the priority audiences. Trust also in the ability of CFAs and companies to develop learning while accompanying young people on the path to success. The third principle is not the least since it motivates the first two. It is that of the effectiveness of rights, because, ladies and gentlemen, creating rights without ensuring their operationality or appropriation is a temptation of the legislator that we must abandon. It is up to us to create the conditions for the success of schemes designed by the social partners – whether we think of the personal training account or of the professional development of counselling – and to ensure that they are deployed on a daily basis throughout the national territory. I believe that these principles are shared on most of our benches. They have also irrigated the two national interprofessional agreements of 22 February 2018 and, since then, have been strongly and convincedly supported by the Minister of Labour, whose commitment and investment I would like to welcome in order to realize the promise of equal access to vocational training and employment. We will never remember enough: we must fight the French paradox. While hiring difficulties are the first brake on companies in our country, France also has a structural unemployment rate close to 9%. In the face of such a high and persistent rate, the Bank of France's latest annual report makes vocational training and apprenticeship reform one of the two reforms whose impact can be profound. Thus, this reform is essential for the future of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I am therefore very proud to defend this text – whose effects we will accompany over time – with my colleagues. So, from now on, everyone in our respective roles, let us do everything in our power to ensure that as of January 1st, the date of the entry into force of most of the provisions of the bill, each of our fellow citizens can become an actor in their professional career and flourish fully through work and qualification!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u43	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u44	Mr Aurélien Taché, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, one month after passing the bill on the freedom to choose one's professional future at first reading, our House is meeting again today to consider it again. As has been pointed out, the Joint Joint Committee meeting last Monday was unable to reach a common text. The disagreements between the two chambers were too important for common ground to emerge, particularly on Title II, which I have the honour to report once again to you. The main disagreement on this title and, in substance, the main reasons for failure of the Joint Joint Committee concern Articles 29 and 33. In the version adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, article 29 – which deals with the fight against job insecurity – provided that in the event of failure of the branch negotiations provided for in the national interprofessional agreement of February 2018, the Government could introduce a "malus bonus" on employer contributions. Our colleagues in this chamber have simply deleted it. Article 33, for its part, allowed the Government to adopt implementing measures by decree which were in principle within the competence of the social partners. On the one hand, it was necessary to bring into force quickly, without waiting for the next unemployment insurance agreement, the new unemployment insurance rights opened up by the text in favour of workers who had resigned and self-employed persons; on the other hand, to take measures by decree to amend the rules on reduced activity, provided that they are applied concurrently, as provided for in an amendment by the LaREM Group adopted at first reading, the " bonus-malus" on the employer's contribution to unemployment insurance described in Article 29. In his speech before the Congress on 9 July, the President of the Republic announced that the Government would table in the Senate – which was then considering the text – an amendment to the overall wording of Article 33 asking the social partners for a complete renegotiation of the unemployment insurance agreement one year before its end. This amendment gives the social partners a period of four months for this renegotiation and asks them to reflect on the link between insurance and assistance benefits and, finally, on the borderline between what must be covered by insurance and solidarity, as we seek greater universality through, in particular, the creation of an allowance for the long-term unemployed. Our honourable senators, whom we have met at length and whom I would like to thank for the good spirit that presided over our work, said that they were struck by this procedure, which eventually crystallized the disagreements between the two chambers. In substance, the majority of the National Assembly is in favour of this governmental amendment, which was adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs on a new reading. It allows the social partners to immediately return their negotiating prerogatives on unemployment compensation within the new framework laid down by the legislator. Since the beginning of the consideration of this bill, oppositions on all benches have criticized the Government for questioning the role of trade unions and employers' organizations in the management of the unemployment insurance scheme. These criticisms, which are therefore excessive, are now null and void, since this amendment will enable the social partners to seize all the issues by renegotiating a comprehensive convention. In social democracy, as elsewhere, there are words and deeds, and the majority, like the Committee on Social Affairs, is therefore satisfied. On the substance, as has been pointed out by the Minister, this renegotiation will have to be an opportunity to deal with at least three issues. Firstly, and this is essential, no longer accept that employees can be assigned to precariousness and therefore take measures to combat the abuse of short contracts and to reduce the reduced activity. According to Unédic, the National Interprofessional Union for Employment in Industry and Commerce, 87% of current hirings take place under contract of less than one month and two thirds correspond to sustainable labour relations. How to have projects when, even when you work, you are denied access to credit and therefore, for example, any real estate possibility? The measures taken will have to deter excesses found and sustained by the absence of effective constraint on companies: it is the " bonus-malus". The social partners will also have to look at the compensation scheme whose rules encourage the acceptance of contracts, if they were a few hours. If taking a job is to remain advantageous for the employee, the incentive must not lead to its retention in return journeys between employment and unemployment which encircle in precariousness. We also propose that the social partners – without making it an obligation – create a genuine long-term unemployment benefit for job seekers who have exhausted their rights. We need to devise a system to protect the long-term unemployed, our main objective being that everyone can return to employment and that unemployment is not a fatality for anyone. Finally, we ask them to ensure that the unemployment insurance rules are such as to accompany the resumption of activity in our country as effectively as possible. Today, companies are struggling to recruit and these rules are extremely complex, unreadable, as evidenced by the amount of indus that is claimed each year. We must be certain that it is always more interesting for someone to start working again, and that is why we are increasing the activity premium by 50%. To define more clearly the nature of the unemployment insurance scheme, as the Council of State invited us to do in its opinion, and to ensure, in a context of renewed growth, that we give ourselves all the means to enable companies to hire, justifies that we take on our responsibilities by asking the social partners – who understand it perfectly – to discuss without delay a new unemployment insurance agreement. I would like to point out that, even if this amendment had not been tabled in the Senate, disagreements on Title II would have been too deep for both houses to reach a common text. As proof, I would like to reiterate the Senate's deletion of section 29, which allows the employer's contribution of unemployment insurance to be adjusted according to a new criterion: the number of contract purposes for which the former employee is included on the list of jobseekers, a number appreciated by each company. As I said, it is a matter of limiting the excessive use of short-term contracts, which lock employees in precarious conditions and whose end weighs heavily on the finances of unemployment insurance. In order to take account of the reality of the economic situation, this "malus bonus" will be appreciated by sector of activity in order not to penalise companies whose activity requires the use of fixed-term contracts. This article responds to a strong commitment by the President of the Republic and the majority to combat precarious work and its removal was not acceptable to the National Assembly. The Committee on Social Affairs has therefore re-established it as a new reading in the text originally adopted on these benches. In general, the Commission has carried out numerous re-establishments on Title II, in particular by going back to the tightening of the conditions for opening unemployment insurance to employees who have resigned. While the Assembly had only provided for the principle of a prior period of activity, which the Government would have fixed by decree at five years, the Senate had included in the law a condition of membership of unemployment insurance for seven years, which is far too restrictive. Our aim, on the contrary, is to facilitate the chosen occupational mobilitys, which, with the supervision provided for in order to limit the risks, will be a path of achievement for employees and a factor of dynamism for our economy. We also removed an article introduced by the Senate that eased the use of CDS in poorly controlled conditions. Of course, we have maintained the abolition of the unemployment insurance wage contribution reintroduced by the Senate, which runs counter to the reform of the funding desired by the Government and the majority aimed at weighing this funding more heavily on the tax in order to draw the universalization of rights – and also, of course, against the gains in purchasing power allowed by this abolition of contributions for employees. We will therefore reaffirm this in the course of this new reading that the work must pay better. We also removed from section 35 the various measures to tighten the situation of job seekers introduced by the Senate, which included the requirement that job seekers who had been on the list for more than two years should be forced to accept paid employment at least to the level of replacement income, regardless of any other consideration. Unlike the Senate majority, on the contrary, we want to customize the accompaniment of job seekers, which is a guarantee of efficiency and, above all, justice. This is why we are refocusing on the relationship between the job seeker and the job seeker's advisor on the definition of a reasonable job offer, a concept that is so difficult to define in a comprehensive manner and which must be thoroughly discussed each time. Nevertheless, the Committee wished to retain the useful additions made by the Senate, such as the transmission to Parliament of the scoping document to be sent by the Government to the social partners in the future, prior to the negotiation of the unemployment insurance agreement. The commission did not reinstate rule 36 ter, which was deleted by the Senate. It was introduced at first reading on the initiative of our colleague Pierre Dharréville, and I wanted him to be able to propose the restoration himself, which will be done at the sitting. The committee will support this amendment, which proposes the submission of a report on an important subject, that of non-use of unemployment insurance rights. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This shows that convergence between us is possible. I hope that, for this new reading, the debates will be as well held as those we have had so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u46	Mrs Nathalie Elimas, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Madam and Mr rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore meeting again to consider the draft law on freedom to choose its professional future after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee last week. As my two fellow rapporteurs have just pointed out, while the gap between the two chambers has crystallized on Title II and the reform of unemployment insurance, there are significant disagreements on the other two headings, including Title III, which I have the honour to report. On the "public service" side in particular, senators simply removed all of the articles that we had adopted, reflecting a clear disagreement with our approach. On the one hand, the Commission has reintroduced the provisions on the advancement of civil servants on standby and performing another professional activity – subject of course to their return to their administration after five years. This measure, while emerging from the traditional canons of the distinction between secondment and availability, is nevertheless useful in diversifying and enriching the careers of civil servants. Beyond the caricatures that have been made of it, I would like to point out that it essentially targets women, largely in this position, who must not, I would say, suffer double punishment, double harm, when accompanying their spouses or raising their children. It has also reintroduced provisions for the recruitment of more contractors for managerial functions in the civil service, within the limits laid down by decrees which will be the subject of consultation with the social partners. It seems to me that, within the scope defined by them and by the method of implementation chosen, these new possibilities should respond to the difficulties faced by many administrations in recruiting officials or legally securing the exercise of certain jobs by non-statutory agents. In addition, this development is the right counterpart to a relaxation of the conditions of departure of all staff members to other activities. I know, I have heard the concern about these measures, particularly in the territorial public service. That is why I will support my colleague Émilie Chalas' amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u48	She's lucky!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u49	... tending to focus more on medium- and large-scale communities. I therefore hope that our work will make it possible to improve the text on these issues while at the same time confirming the guidelines we had taken – certainly at night – at first reading. Other chapters of Title III have, however, been the subject of points of convergence between the two chambers, which I should also stress before you. Thus, of the fifteen articles on seconded work and the fight against illegal work, I would like to point out that when the text was examined in committee, only one article was re-established in the National Assembly. The Social Affairs Committee thus maintained the drafting of the Senate for seven articles, while the other seven articles were in conformity. These figures reflect our attention and respect for the amendments adopted by the Senate. The disability component, for its part, was deeply enriched during the review of the text in the National Assembly and the Senate. This is as much due to the work of our two assemblies, which have been working towards the adoption of measures to improve the employment situation of persons with disabilities, as to a particular timetable, as it must be said, which led the Government to table a number of amendments during the shuttle. Indeed, the consultation with the social partners and associations to reform employment policy in favour of disabled workers gave the first part of its conclusions during the first reading of this bill before our House. In this way, amendments have been adopted in our Chamber in open session to translate into the text several conclusions of this rich consultation. In view of the time allocated to me, I shall mention only three of the most emblematic measures adopted by our Assembly at first reading. First of all, I am thinking of the 'all-declarants' approach, which will make it possible to make visible the effort, including very small enterprises, for the employment of people with disabilities. Secondly, I would like to refer to the introduction of the principle that direct employment of persons with disabilities is privileged for the fulfilment of the obligation of employment by opening up all the possibilities of recruitment existing in the common law – CDI, CDD, traineeship, acting – while at the same time ensuring the appropriate sector, so that everyone can find or retain the place most in accordance with his or her situation. Finally, I am thinking of the calculation of the employment obligation at the level of the enterprise as a whole, rather than at the level of the establishment, which will avoid any exemption effect for enterprises with multiple establishments of less than 20 employees. Last Wednesday's review in the Committee on Social Affairs allowed us to re-establish these important advances in favour of the employment of people with disabilities, while maintaining some of the provisions introduced by our honourable senators. In particular, I would mention the provision providing for the automatic granting of recognition of the status of disabled worker to any worker whose disability is irreversible, in accordance with the recommendations of Dominique Gillot's report. With the facilitation of access to telework, the introduction of a disability reference in enterprises, or the renovation of the framework for the intervention of suitable enterprises, these are strong and concrete measures to improve the employment of persons with disabilities that have been introduced into this bill. In the area of professional equality, the work of the Senate has strengthened the drafting adopted by our Assembly, in order to complement the indicators for measuring wage differentials. I welcome, in this regard, the position expressed by the Senate, which, contrary to the position supported by part of the opposition at first reading in this House, did not wish to go back to the threshold of fifty employees chosen for the application of the obligation. A broad consensus has thus emerged to move from an obligation of means to an obligation of results. The efforts already made in some companies to achieve professional equality, in particular through collective bargaining, deserve recognition, and I sincerely believe that virtuous practices should be encouraged in this regard. Finally, the provisions relating to the fight against sexual harassment and gender-based acts were adopted in the same terms by both chambers, which also demonstrates a convergence on this subject in keeping with the primacy and sensitivity of these issues. We can only congratulate them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express the hope that, following a debate which I hope to be calm, on this bill, and in particular on its Title III, we will adopt this text and all the progress it contains.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u50	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject it in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u51	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group. –Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on several benches of the NG and FI groups, and among the non-attached MPs]] Mr President, Madam Minister of Labour, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the discussion of the bill on freedom to choose one's professional future in a particularly heavy climate of political crisis. Our assembly was paralyzed for five days by a state affair, and above all by the Government's contempt for Parliament. While the situation required explanations from the executive branch, it remained silent and refused to respond to the legitimate demands of the opposition. He has thus provoked – and is responsible for – the obstruction of the National Assembly's agenda. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] [["Yes! on the benches of the LR group]] Parliamentarians were right to refuse to discuss the constitutional review under these conditions. Today, we are addressing another issue, as we begin to review the Professional Futures Bill again. We will legislate as planned, with seriousness and determination. The Government's attitude, its contempt for Parliament, reached its climax this weekend. But this contempt, we have been subjected to it in a sluggish, continuous manner for the past year. I warned you, minister, that we would no longer accept these methods of government. But once again, the Government does not respect Parliament or the Council of State. Indeed, between the discussion in the National Assembly and the examination of the text in the Senate, the Government tabled almost one hundred and ten amendments, on a text that originally consisted of sixty-six articles. What are the reasons for this new record? [["Ah! on the benches of the LaREM group]] The first is the unpreparation of the Government. How can it be otherwise, when it completely rewrites certain articles or, worse, when it contradicts itself, as evidenced, for example, by the tabling of five new amendments that we are going to consider – and some of which are common sense? The second is the Government's sense of not being accountable to anyone and thus deliberately bypassing our institutions. When the Government submits a bill, it must transmit it to the Council of State for its opinion, and it is obliged to submit an impact assessment justifying the measures it intends to take. On the other hand, when the Government legislates through amendments, it bypasses the Council of State and frees itself from the obligation of impact assessment. We are thus legislating in ignorance of the consequences of the proposed measures. In addition, the Government tabled these amendments a few days or even a few hours prior to their consideration. In these circumstances, parliamentarians do not have time to take seriously the proposals for changes or even changes in the Government, which is particularly serious. Third reason, you present an incomplete project because, by your own admission, your consultations are not over! This is the case with the section on disabled workers and equality between women and men. Thus, you add a boat clause to your bill, which will serve only as a hangover, to try to avoid censorship by the Constitutional Council and you incorporate, during the examination, the conclusions of consultations made outside Parliament, without even informing it. I am telling you, Madam Minister, that the insinuity of your impact assessment, as well as the circumvention of the Council of State and the Constitutional Council, will be the subject of an appeal against your proposal, and these are reasons for adopting this motion of rejection in advance. This is not the only reason for unconstitutionality that we have noted in this text. You have drafted a new Article 33 to oblige the social partners to renegotiate the unemployment insurance agreement without waiting for the expiry of the current agreement. In reality, this amendment – a notable and unique fact in the Fifth Republic – is of direct Elysean origin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u52	Unique fact?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u53	Announced by the President of the Republic at the time of the Congress, the latter's direct will, it was introduced into the Senate, i.e. after the consideration and vote of the bill in the National Assembly. Madam Minister, I warned you that we would no longer accept that the Government, in a situation of accelerated procedure with only one reading per chamber, should table in the Senate fundamental amendments such as this one, as you had already done for the ratification of the Sixth Ordinance of the Labour Law, which has never been studied by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u54	We don't respect Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u55	And we passed this law! Moreover, this amendment calls into question the principle of freedom of contract. We can only derogate from this for a sufficient reason of general interest. What's the point? In your view, the mere fact that we are experiencing a period of growth and that it concerns the fight against precariousness is a sufficient reason. First, this argument is false. Unfortunately, and we regret it, growth is slowing down, and it is likely to slow down further. Secondly, the fight against insecurity and short contracts has already been discussed. There are therefore no new facts justifying the challenge of the agreement signed between the social partners. So, one reason in reality: the President of the Republic's willingness to break unemployment insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u56	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u57	We had already warned the French against the ongoing attack on one of the pillars of our country's social policy. The abolition of wage contributions and their replacement by the increase in the generalised social contribution – CSG –, the shift from a management paritarianism to a guarantee paritarianism, the transformation of the assumption of unemployment from an insurance system to a national solidarity, financed by tax, the statements of two ministers saying that aid for the return to employment is ineffective and that there is too much national solidarity were all signs that the Government had this will to break.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u58	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u59	The Elysean amendment confirms this fear. For the President of the Republic, this is not enough: we must go even faster, further. The unemployment benefits of the French must be reduced as soon as next year. I can predict to the French what is likely to happen to them: an unemployment package of 800 euros, regardless of their income, such as the self-employed, a degressivity of the amounts or a shorter compensation, or even the three. Finally, what cynicism on the part of the Government, which wishes, in your own words, the Minister, to give priority to the intervention of the social partners, out of respect for social dialogue. Who are you going to make believe that from now on you will respect the social partners? You are, in fact, removing from them the management of unemployment insurance through Unédic. Indeed, when financial levers are withdrawn from an actor, his or her ability to act is also removed. How can you call yourself advocates of social dialogue, when you force the social partners to renegotiate a recently signed convention to stick to the injunctions of the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u60	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u61	You're not fooling anyone. The only purpose of this manoeuvre is to take the lead in your decisions, the loss of rights that is taking place, to the social partners, and I sincerely hope that they will not be locked in this wrong role. I also regret the attitude of both the Government and the majority towards the text amended by the Senate. The Senate played its part. He didn't upset this bill, he never crossed red lines. On the contrary, it improved the text and rebalanced it. Unfortunately, anchored in an ideological and closed posture, the majority approached the Joint Joint Committee with the will, and perhaps order, to make it fail. At no time have you tried to advance in the interests of the French and France. At no time did you attempt to reach an agreement with the Senate. And neither have you tried to do so with the National Assembly, where you despise opposition. You remain arch-bouted about your certainty of holding the truth alone. Yet neither the opposition to the National Assembly nor the Senate is in a systematic role of opposition. Our only will is to improve this text, to enable the French to live better. In substance, your project is not going in the right direction. Worse, it reduces individual rights. How would learning grow out of a project that entrusts it to 400 professional branches, of which fewer than ten have the necessary structure to ensure the responsibility you entrust to them? How will these 400 branches, which do not cover all employees, do better than the eighteen regions of our country? How will employees be able to train throughout their lives, with reduced rights, with a monetised CPF, which transforms training into an ordinary consumer good, with a CPF less funded than before? How can we promote the work of people with disabilities with a text that is constantly being changed? Finally, what are the public service clauses doing in your bill, when a law on this specific subject has been announced and the consultations have not been completed? This legislative rider will also be part of our recourse to the Constitutional Council. This bill also operates a recentralization never seen, with a new body, France competences. This body, which is omnipotent and ubiquitous in the field of vocational training, will be exclusively in the hands of the Government, as evidenced by the composition of its board of directors. You even refused an amendment by our colleague Francis Vercamer that the Director-General of France should be heard by Parliament before his appointment. I am pleased that this amendment, which has been discussed under Rule 88, has received a favourable opinion and I would like it to be adopted. But what are you afraid of, Madam Minister? Why do you insist on diminishing Parliament's power? Why be afraid of the representatives of the people we are? Your bill lacks height. Worse still, despite a majority on orders, you continue to feel the need to legislate by order. Is the situation so urgent, minister, that orders, bill after bill, should be used?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u62	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u63	Seconded workers, financing of vocational training, work of disabled people, all these subjects will be the subject of an order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u64	The minister doesn't like Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u65	Not to mention the order in clause 66, which governs the whole bill and allows you to do, basically, what you want! Or is it because you don't trust your own majority enough? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on several benches of the NG and GDR groups]] All this in a poverty of the debate never reached: approximate answers, or even absence of replies from the Government, on the pretext of ongoing consultations, a commission that blindly restores the text of the National Assembly, refusal to adopt any amendment coming from oppositions without justification. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u66	In explanation of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, the floor is for Mr Laurent Pietraszewski, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche). I should like to remind you that interventions are limited to two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u67	Two minutes will not be enough to answer all the arguments, or rather the pseudo-arguments put forward by our colleague Gérard Cherpion, who is often excellent, but who seems to have been less inspired this afternoon, which I regret. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] He was less inspired, because he saw only what he wanted to see in this bill, and that's a shame. He asked us where the emergency was and I want to answer him, saying it very loudly and to everyone: the emergency is everywhere in our society! The urgency, dear colleague, is the 3.5 million people who do not have a job. The urgency is to act because, since several legislatures, no political or economic solution has been proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u68	Are you kidding me?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u69	The urgency is to create jobs for all those who are looking for jobs! Here's the emergency! And that is why it is necessary to move forward quickly, especially through this beautiful project on the freedom to choose your professional future. It must enable many of our fellow citizens to take charge of their careers and, with the support of the State, whenever necessary, to train themselves, to be proud to find a job corresponding to their skills and to exercise it in a sustainable manner. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Republic on the move will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u70	Mr Gilles Lurton, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u71	We will of course vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u72	That's consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u73	We are meeting tonight for a fresh reading of the bill on the freedom to choose one's professional future, following the meeting of a joint committee that lasted only a few moments, as your majority had previously orchestrated its failure. As a result of this joint committee, the deadline for tabling our amendments before the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs was extremely constrained: it was not even twenty-four hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u74	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u75	The amendments were to be tabled by 6 p.m. last Tuesday, when the Joint Joint Committee meeting had taken place on Monday and the Social Affairs Committee meeting had taken place on Wednesday. Under such conditions, how do you want us to work calmly and effectively, knowing that at the same time we were in the midst of the constitutional bill? Unless your will is – for my part I dare not imagine – to prevent opposition from working...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u76	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u77	Yet it would have taken us some time if we had wanted to work seriously. Indeed, since the examination at first reading – Gérard Cherpion has recalled it very well and I myself made the count – 105 amendments have been tabled by the Government on a text that originally consisted of 66 articles. That is to say, if the original text was to be miswritten! Gérard Cherpion said, this method is not admissible. It certainly exempts you from the opinion of the Council of State and, above all, from an impact assessment, which would have allowed us to analyse in substance the measures that you propose to us. With regard to unemployment insurance, just two days after the President of the Republic's speech to Congress, you tabled an amendment to Article 33 in the Senate, asking the social partners to renegotiate the unemployment insurance agreement without waiting for the expiry of the current agreement. Fortunately, the Senate has rejected this amendment, which, in our view, is unconstitutional. In any case, this subject will remain a point of deep disagreement for us. Within two minutes, I do not have time to dwell on article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u78	That's already two minutes twenty, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u79	I am still saying a word about Article 3 and the situation of people with disabilities. We all share, of course, the desire to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities. However, we only learned last week the content of the plan you are proposing for the adapted companies. For my part, I welcome the creation of 40,000 jobs in these companies. Nevertheless, we do not have any concrete elements to fully appreciate this plan. In particular, we do not know how it will be financed; You only announced that measures would be included in the next finance bill. We would have liked to have more details on this subject, which is very important to us. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] All of these reasons will lead us to approve the motion to reject beforehand and to ask you to rework this text with us, in order to understand all the ins and outs of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u80	Mrs Justine Benin, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u81	The aim here is to support an ambitious and necessary reform, the main objective of which is to secure the professional paths of individuals, giving them at last more freedom but also protection. Whether it is vocational training, apprenticeship or unemployment insurance, the text deals with dense but essential subjects for the modernisation and adaptation of our economic and social model. It must enable our citizens to master all stages of their working lives, while helping them to develop their skills effectively throughout their careers, in order to adapt to economic changes, which have a significant impact on entire sectors of our economy. In addition, Title III of the Bill addresses issues that cannot be left aside. Clear answers are thus provided on the question of the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market or on the question of occupational equality between women and men. The defence of a "work society for all" can only be a political posture. The text finds its full consistency in this respect, with concrete, legible and effective measures. This bill marks the culmination of a reshaping of the work and employment ecosystem, undertaken last summer, in particular through important social contributions. Disagreements with our fellow senators were too important to hope for a final joint joint committee. Nevertheless, we have the opportunity to examine this text for a second time, in a new reading, in order to draw up a version which I hope will be most in line with the expectations of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement therefore strongly opposes this motion of rejection and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u82	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u83	The next speaker is Francis Vercamer, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u84	If there is a text on which we could have obtained unanimity in this House, it is indeed this draft law on vocational training. In my view, we are all convinced, on both sides of the Chamber, of the importance of vocational training, of the need to adapt the French to the evolution of society and to technological changes, of trying to narrow the gap between those who have unfortunately not had the chance to benefit from in-depth initial training and the others, of working on alternation, which we believe is important, if not royal, towards employment. It was a text on which we could have reached consensus. Unfortunately, the majority decided otherwise. First of all, she didn't listen to us. Not only have very few amendments been voted on, but very few have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u85	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u86	Yes, he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u87	All the amendments have been rejected!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u88	At first reading, some amendments simply received an unfavorable opinion, without any explanation, both in committee and in public sitting. We have not been listened to by the Government, but we have not been listened to by the rapporteurs either. Mr Cherpion has just reminded him at the rostrum, even a stupid amendment, which aimed at the hearing of the Director General of France Competences by the committee responsible, has been rejected; We wonder why.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u89	It is to give you the pleasure to defend him in court, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u90	As stated in the Constitution, a revision of which is currently under discussion, the Parliament consists of two chambers. However, the Senate had reintroduced a number of provisions by seeking consensus so as to find a compromise between each other's positions. The UDI, Action and Independent Group thought that the rapporteurs and the majority would do against bad fortune good heart, understanding that this consensus voice was perhaps, after all, the one that had to be borrowed so that a large majority would vote on this text. Unfortunately, the majority adopted a number of amendments to go back to the previous version of the text, the one voted at the end of the first reading, which we do not think was appropriate. In particular, you excluded the regions from the scheme, even though they had been reintroduced by the Senate, in particular for the establishment of apprentice training centres. This, in my opinion, is a fundamental mistake. We were never hostile to the branches, and Article 15 bis, which entrusted co-piloting in this area to the banks and the regions, seemed to us an acceptable compromise, but you removed it. For my part, I do not believe in the great evening of vocational training. I am in my fourth term, and this is the fourth bill on vocational training that I am considering. Each time, the competent minister and the majority explained to us that this was the text needed to reform vocational training, but it did not work. Why? Because the evolution of vocational training will come not from the state or from a decision at the level of the minister, but from a change of mentality or, at least, from a reflection by employees and enterprises; She's coming from the field. You will be able to draw up all the laws you want; As long as the field does not accept the need for vocational training, adaptation to technological change and occupational mobility, you will not be able to do so. Moreover, at both readings, the Government introduced 105 amendments on a bill that originally had only about 60 articles. Mr Cherpion is right: you have hijacked the functioning of our Republic, bypassing the Council of State and avoiding an impact assessment. Some of your amendments may, in my view, be censored by the Constitutional Council. In addition, you asked the social partners to renegotiate an agreement they had just signed. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why the IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u91	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr Joël Aviragnet, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u92	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] In view of the progress of the work in committee, the lack of consideration of the opposition, the lack of recognition for parliamentary work – I will come back to that – and the many approximations contained in this text – I am thinking in particular of monetisation, which is intended to replace the current system and will be unfavourable to employees – the New Left Group will support this motion for prior rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u93	Mr Adrien Quatennens, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u94	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] A previous speaker said that he would not have two minutes to explain his group's vote. For my part, I'll be brief. This bill is entitled "Bill for the Freedom to Choose Your Professional Future". However, for there to be a freedom to choose one's professional future, there must still be a professional future; and, if there is to be a professional future, there still needs to be permanent employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u95	You're still negative! That's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u96	In this regard, this bill does not propose anything. That is why we will vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u97	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u98	Gérard Cherpion has given us a very well-argued demonstration,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u99	[[Smile]] And balanced!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u100	... of which we do not have the same appreciation as Laurent Pietraszewski, who saw pseudo-arguments there. In my view, pseudo-answers should not be given to him, because he nevertheless raised real questions, in particular on the method used, on the respect of Parliament – both the Senate and the National Assembly – and on the respect of the social partners, taking into account the procedures used. In that connection, he referred to the amendment announced by the President of the Republic at the rostrum of the Congress. He also recalled a number of fears that we may have about the destabilization of the vocational training system. One of the concerns I am concerned about is equality, a constitutional principle, if any: this reform poses risks in terms of worsening the inequalities already present in the world of work. For all these reasons, we will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u101	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u102	The majority's wavering!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u103	I have received a motion from Mrs Valérie Rabault and members of the New Left Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u104	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has tabled a motion for referral to committee because it appears that this bill has been introduced in Parliament in the most complete improvisation. If there was to be proof, the President of the Republic himself was responsible for reorienting your text at the meeting of the Congress in Versailles on 9 July, as it was proven that it was not up to expectations. It must be noted that this text is the subject of a guilty impreparation. Indeed, it is the first since the 1971 legislation on vocational training not to have reached a consensus among the social partners. It was drafted in contempt of trade unions and with a concertation of facades. You yourself, Madam Minister, denounced the national interprofessional agreement, before it was publicly presented by the unions on February 22, 2018. Your work of undermining trade unions is gradually becoming a governmental method, which is unacceptable in a democracy. I was talking about unpreparation just now, and I'll only give one number: one hundred and ten! This is the number of amendments tabled by the Government since the submission of the text to the National Assembly. Let it be clear to everyone: you tabled a text before the National Assembly that you had previously transmitted to the Council of State, and then you amended it one hundred and ten times to arrive at the current copy. That is an original method of work, Madam Minister! In the future, however, try to provide us with a finished copy, not the drafts, in order to allow the National Assembly and the Council of State to work in less poor conditions. I am thinking in particular of section 17 of this bill, which was completely rewritten by the Government when it examined the text in Parliament and which concerns – excuse me for a little – the financial scheme of vocational training and apprenticeship. I am continuing, Madam Minister, on the Government's unpreparedness on this text, which was presented and discussed by the National Assembly, while parallel consultations were under way on related issues, including disability. But this is also the case for the competence operators – the OPCOs – for whom you refer us to a later mission. Moreover, overseas countries and territories are completely absent from this reform. I would like to pay tribute to the work of my colleagues, Mrs Bareigts and Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe, without whom specific provisions would not have been made. This is not a serious matter, Madam Minister! I would add that the President of the Republic, by asking you to amend this bill at the Congress of Versailles, in order to change the situation concerning unemployment insurance, has nevertheless publicly disavowed you, Madam Minister. It's never been seen before! However, what worries me beyond the political camouflage is the disdain reserved for trade unions. In fact, Mr Macron ordered them to meet to renegotiate the rules of unemployment insurance. But, Madam Minister, trade unions do not need an invitation from the President of the Republic to meet! Here I want to expose your government's intention, which is in fact to move us from a system of rights to compensation, acquired through contributions, to a private insurance system, that is to say, an Anglo-Saxon system, both unequal and ineffective, which takes the foothills of our struggles for justice and social progress. This reform is a major blow to intermediate bodies, local and regional authorities, apprentices and workers, since it is recentralising, liberalising and commodifying vocational training and apprenticeship. This is regrettable, because it is contrary to the general interest and to the rise in the skills of French workers and companies. For example, I would like to refer to the Socialist amendment adopted in the Senate to introduce a co-piloting of learning by regions and branches. This amendment, which was reasonable, was voted by the right and the left; You have deleted it, when you read it again in committee. However, this was the best way to defend decentralization and to affirm the regional planning role through training. Again, you go into force without taking into account the enrichments brought by opposition groups. Colleagues, I invite you to vote on this motion to refer to committee, because this bill is a matter of concern. All you have to do is look at the 21% increase in demands for workers to use their CPF, since the beginning of your reform, to see that they understood that monetization was accompanied by a loss of rights for them. Take the example of the training report, which cost 24 hours yesterday and will cost 1500 euros tomorrow: it took a year of work to be able to afford it, it will take three tomorrow with the monetization of the CPF. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] In conclusion, Madam Minister, the measures contained in this bill, which are aimed at strengthening the control of the unemployed, and at simplifying, so to speak, the taking of sanctions against them are unacceptable: they are unnecessary and stigmatizing. I would therefore like to reiterate our firm opposition to these provisions. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to vote on this motion for referral to committee and to rework collectively on our two main points of disagreement: the piloting of learning which, in our view, must be ensured jointly by the regions and the branches and the renegotiation of unemployment insurance, which cannot under any circumstances be transformed into an insurance system with Anglo-Saxony.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u105	On the motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the New Left Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In the explanations of vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee, Mr Laurent Pietraszewski is speaking for the La République on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u106	Mr Aviragnet, you wanted to echo Gérard Cherpion with your sense of detail! Like him, you pretended to see, in this text, only what seemed most unpleasant to you. Dear colleague, it is nevertheless quite surprising that, while we want to give its full dimension to social democracy, the President of the Republic brings together representatives and the social partners around him – a great victory for social democracy! – you told us throughout your speech that we flout and treat all the social partners disdainfully. It's totally incomprehensible! Even if I try to put myself in your place and show a great deal of empathy, I cannot understand the political and intellectual coherence of your speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u107	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u108	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Perhaps your political line is to say systematically that you do not like what we offer. I can hear this position, which is a position of principle; But you will not be surprised, dear colleague, that the Republic Group is voting against your motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u109	Mr Patrick Hetzel, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u110	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on several benches of the NG group]] The majority has voluntarily programmed the failure of the Joint Joint Committee to reintroduce its text, without being embarrassed by the dialogue with the upper chamber. Moreover, the introduction of a presidential amendment, not to say a jupiterian, during the debate in the Senate, reflecting the remarks made by the President of the Republic on Unédic, two days after the Congress, and overlooking the economy of the bill, the national interprofessional agreement – ANI – concluded by the social partners last February and all the parliamentary work – is the respect of Parliament! –, really strained the parliamentary work. That is why we find that the arguments given by our colleague to justify the motion for referral to committee are more than relevant. It is of course with conviction and force that we will vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u111	Mrs Justine Benin, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u112	This bill for the freedom to choose one's professional future is part of the momentum of reforms initiated since the beginning of the quinquennium with the ordinances reforming the labour code and in line with the commitments made by the President of the Republic. Looking at the themes of vocational training, apprenticeship and unemployment insurance, it is an unprecedented modernisation of our social protection model that is now being proposed to us. It is up to us, as representatives of the nation, to look into it to offer our fellow citizens a society of skills and emancipation through work. This text also implements concrete measures, in particular to establish a more inclusive and egalitarian society: this is the subject of the provisions of Title III on disabled workers, on occupational equality between women and men or on the issue of seconded work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Our group enthusiastically supports the general philosophy of this text. It also sought to propose provisions to supplement it at first reading. The failure of the CMP and the disagreements with the Senate give us the opportunity to look at it for the last time. We have thus re-established last week in committee a version that seems to us to be more in line with its original ambitions. We hope that the work that begins today in a public session will make it possible to finalise the improvement of the text, in the interest of French and French people. That is why we will vote against this motion for referral back to committee and call on all our colleagues to participate in our work in a constructive way, as was the case at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u113	The next speaker is Francis Vercamer, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Joël Aviragnet also applauds]] I will be much more concise than in my explanation of vote on the motion to reject. In fact, I could tell you again that the text is not in line with what we are waiting for. But the closure of the majority in the face of our amendments, which are systematically rejected, leaves me coi. I would have voted in favour of your motion for referral back to committee, ladies and gentlemen of the New Left Group, but I do not think it will do any good, since we have just spent several days in committee, without seeing one of our amendments accepted. The IDU, Action and Independent Group will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u115	The next speaker is Mrs Ericka Bareigts, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u116	Of course, the New Left Group will vote on this motion. We have nothing to do with the excellent arguments of our colleague Joël Aviragnet. I would just like to add two remarks to what he said. The ideology of this reform is based exclusively on an approach of individualization of rights. On this basis, you proposed monetization. However, as everyone has said, it has been an opportunity to weaken and diminish employee training rights. But above all you tell us that it is the best solution without ever having demonstrated it! We, in any case, have not heard this demonstration, nor have we, apparently, heard that some members of the MODEM Group, who, if I have understood correctly, will present an amendment to remove monetisation, which they consider unfavourable for employees – a point of view that we share. As far as the social partners are concerned, they were heard after a year! They were received by the President of the Republic at the foot of the wall. There was no opening and discussion with them at the outset. It is so true that the day after the conclusion of the ANI, it was not respected in this reform. Our group will, of course, vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u117	Mr Adrien Quatennens, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u118	I hear some of my colleagues say that the motion of the New Left Group would be tabled in principle and that the opposition that we regularly raise would be just as much an opposition in principle. I understand, of course, the comfort of saying that the opposition is in principle. But that's not the case. I would like this colleague to hear that it is precisely because we are concerned about the employment situation in our country that we are not convinced by your proposals and we are making others, suffer it. We believe that your text misses the stakes. That is why, both in committee and at first reading, we have made other proposals. Respect the fact that we believe that your text is neither effective nor pragmatic in terms of employment. We have shown it to you, with which you agree or disagree: it is the principle of democracy. But stop saying that we oppose each other as a matter of principle! We have different models, differences of view, but not an opposition of principle. The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote on this motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u119	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u120	My colleague Jean-Philippe Nilor is blowing my breath at the moment that the fate of this text in the overseas countries is an important argument to justify the return to committee; I agree with him. Earlier, we talked about the meeting organized by the President of the Republic – a very late catch-up session! – which was the occasion to stage the will of a social turn. At a time when many French people are interested in the Tour de France, I am afraid that as we approach this turn, we might actually go straight! This text is a manifestation of this, as it continues with the same logic as what has been done for the past year in a relentless manner. It is true, dear colleague Francis Vercamer, that we have been little heard in the discussions and that our amendments have probably not known the fate we were hoping for. But the time may be changing in the wake of certain events...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u121	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u122	... and we think it would be worth trying to refer it back to committee to see what it can give!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u123	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u124	In the general debate, Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u125	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on freedom to choose one's professional future is a national priority. It is about preserving our republican pact, based on the values of equality and solidarity among our fellow citizens. Our duty is to protect the person by giving him or her the means to evolve rather than to protect the jobs that will eventually disappear. It is also an issue of society, the competitiveness of our businesses and growth. One of the major challenges facing our country – the heart of our battle – is the fight against mass unemployment, especially the one that affects young people and the farthest from employment. The reform of apprenticeship and vocational training which we are looking at again today, the result of a national consultation involving all the players in the sector, is in line with this objective by pursuing a twofold ambition: to make initial and continuing training a protective shield and a tool for the emancipation of individuals, and at the same time an investment in the competitiveness of enterprises and the employability of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u126	By reducing their rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u127	A few figures speak for themselves: vocational training benefits managers of large private companies three times more than workers and employees of TPEs and SMEs; There are only 400,000 apprentices in France, while 1.3 million young people are not in employment, training or education – twice as many as in Germany where the unemployment rate is low. Thus, despite the €32 billion in annual collection, our vocational training and apprenticeship system is neither efficient enough, nor accessible enough, nor fair enough! Lack of accessibility, lack of guidance, lack of accompaniment... Dear colleagues, no! We can no longer tolerate all these injustices! Today we are at a crossroads. Madam Minister of Labour, you have announced a Copernician revolution in vocational training and apprenticeship, of which we fully share the philosophy. With this bill, tomorrow, our trainings will be more accessible and fairer. The personal training account will no longer be written in hours but in euros, which will lead to a genuine disintermediation of the system. From now on, each candidate will have access to information on all the trainings, the employability rate or the expected salaries. Tomorrow, the competence operators will see their missions fully dedicated to the advice and support of companies in the development of their training plans. Our training will also be more efficient and transparent: users will be better accompanied by the creation of a national agency, France Compétences, which will regulate the quality of training and its costs. Orientation is also one of our priorities. From now on, assets will be able to seek professional advice from their region, free of charge, which will enable them to better meet their expectations. There is also an urgent need to improve learning: our goal is to change the scale, transform the image of learning and finally make it the path of excellence that it is! Colleagues, does learning work in France as we wish? Despite the approximately €8 billion spent on this every year, the answer is unfortunately negative. I listened carefully to the debates in the Senate, and our colleagues on all sides unanimously acknowledge the lack of efficiency of the current system. Our solutions are simple and pragmatic: this reform must put companies at the heart of our system and make it the learning drivers they are in all European countries where unemployment is low and where learning is much more developed. Our regions will also be associated with the scheme by taking full responsibility for the guidance of young people. The introduction of a contract cost will allow the development of apprenticeship training centres throughout our territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, as legislators, we all have an obligation of result on these benches. Our country is hit by economic and social change, and the heart of our battle remains the fight against mass unemployment; Let's not forget it! The battle that must be waged together is indeed that of increasing the skills of citizens through education and training, which will make it possible to secure the pathways of training throughout our lives. Colleagues, let us live up to the challenges of our time and the expectations of our fellow citizens by allowing them at last to have the freedom to choose their professional future!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u128	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u129	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting a new reading of the bill on freedom to choose one's professional future after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. I regret this failure – which was predictable, however – for two reasons. While the Government is considering an institutional reform that undermines the prerogatives of Parliament, the President of the Republic announces to Congress the tabling of an amendment in the Senate to require the social partners to negotiate new unemployment insurance agreements without waiting for the expiry of the current agreement, which was set for September 2020. The introduction of a presidential amendment rewriting Article 33 has led to the reprobation of the majority of political group leaders in the Senate. What can be said in the face of such a failure on the part of the Government to modify the ecosystem of its own unemployment insurance reform? The Committee on Social Affairs had neither an impact assessment nor the opinion of the Council of State nor sufficient time to hold further hearings. I will not dwell on the risk of unconstitutionality of the amendment, which has already been recalled, linked to the question of the principle of contractual freedom. The failure of the CMP is also due to the fact that you wanted to remove all the achievements of the Senate that would allow for a better balance between regions and professional branches in terms of learning. The Senate, through in-depth work, wanted to strengthen the role of the regions without removing power from the branches. As you constantly express your desire for legislative co-construction and dialogue, you considered that this new balance was the red line that should not be crossed. Article 5, which creates an obligation to certify apprenticeship training, is no exception in unpreparedness. Let us admit this time that the amendments were requested by several groups including the majority group itself! But your bill has moved so much that it has become very difficult to read, which will create legal insecurity, which is detrimental to the actors. The Government had initially considered that public secondary and higher education institutions as well as private higher education institutions of general interest (ESPIG) were "deemed to be exempt from the certification requirement referred to in article L. 6316-1 for actions provided through apprenticeship", as stated in a very clearly drafted paragraph of article 5 of the text. The Members we are had decided collectively that there should be no exceptions and that all learning activities should be certified in the same way. After a discussion and compromise in the sitting where the majority came back in part to their position – I pass the details, don't I, Mr. Maillard? – we had replaced the subparagraph which provided for the exemption by a new paragraph detailing the conditions under which this new certification obligation was implemented, in particular for professional, public and private high schools associated with the State by contract. Senators deleted this paragraph, which clearly provided that secondary schools were subject to the requirement of certification, considering, like the Government at the outset, that such schools should be subject to an exception. Article 5 as drafted today, therefore, makes no mention of secondary schools, and Mrs Fabre refused in committee last week, in the greatest impreparation, to have our amendment adopted, which would restore the wording of this article on which we had agreed in the House. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In addition, Mrs Fabre said in committee that it was unnecessary to adopt our amendment to reinstate the House's version because our amendment was already satisfied with Rule 11. Answer at least sibyllin! So I have a specific request: are professional high schools considered, yes or no, as providers within the meaning of section 6351-1 – clause 5 of the bill – without we need to clarify it, as we did in all previous versions of the text? If professional lycées are not covered by article 5 but by article 11, what about private lycées associated with the State by contract? And finally, in any case, is the additional time that had been introduced for professional lycées well preserved in the version of the new reading? If it is not, national education will face a huge problem. Minister, in the face of such unpreparations and uncertainties, we obviously maintain our position against this bill, which we consider to be harmful to the professional future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u130	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u131	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u132	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteurs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after the failure of the Joint Committee, we are again considering this bill on the freedom to choose one's professional future. It does not seem unnecessary to recall here the main findings of the reforms that we wish to take place in order to give everyone a better chance of obtaining quality training, a guarantee of emancipation both for young people, in the context of initial training, as well as for employees, jobseekers or self-employed persons wishing to reorient themselves. The findings, let us recall, are as follows. First of all, the number of people in the apprenticeship sector is lower than that of our neighbours: only 7% of young people between the ages of 16 and 25 are learning in France – a rate lower than those in countries where the youth unemployment rate is low. This is due to a lack of information for young people and an image of a garage industry, which is totally wrong, as this sector reaches 80% success and apprentices usually integrate the company in which they have been trained. It is also a question of the administrative obstacles that we wish to remedy. At the same time, while the world of work is undergoing transformations and many professions are emerging, our training offer is not legible. Employees are unaware of their rights and do not find themselves in the current system, especially the most fragile of them: just 6% of workers and 12% of employees say they have chosen to take training themselves, compared to 28% of managers. Moreover, governance and funding are, as we know, extremely complex today. Moreover, as announced by the President of the Republic, it is essential to make our unemployment insurance more universal and fairer. The less linear nature of careers and the development of new forms of employment justify a renovation of our system. With regard to the inclusion of disabled workers and occupational equality between men and women, we know that there is still a long way to go. In 2017, only 36% of people with disabilities – or 1 million people – are in employment, compared to 64% of the population as a whole; 18 per cent of persons recognised as disabled are unemployed, compared with 10 per cent of the population as a whole. On the other hand, the average annual net remuneration of women is still more than 25 per cent lower than that of men, all contracts combined. On contract, diplomas, experience and responsibilities, a woman earns an average of 10% less than a man. These strong inequalities call for answers to give everyone the opportunity to flourish in their working lives. Finally, between 220000 and 300,000 employees illegally seconded would be present on French territory without being declared. Their working or accommodation conditions are potentially in decline compared to those of conventional seconded employees: this calls for a stronger framework. In order to remedy these shortcomings, strong changes in these various areas have been adopted by our Assembly at first reading. The first is to make guidance and information for students clearer, more accessible and more in line with economic realities, in particular by entrusting this mission to the regions. It is then a question of making learning a path of excellence, accessible to as many people as possible, by raising the age limit to twenty-nine years of age. Funding will be provided at the contract; Many training centres will be set up, allowing the opening of many places. The rights of apprentices will be guaranteed, while allowing them to train as closely as possible to the reality of the profession they wish to pursue. The governance of vocational training will be clearly simplified with the creation of the French public institution. Access to training will also be facilitated, thanks to the renovation of the personal training account, now set up in euro, and the creation of an online application identifying the training offer – the aim of which is to improve the readability of the offer, whether for employees or job seekers. The strengthening of free vocational counselling will also enable people to be accompanied in their training courses. Unskilled workers and part-time workers will also benefit from enhanced rights. Title II, which deals with unemployment compensation, aims to provide coverage to a greater number of people and to promote greater occupational mobility. The aim is to extend the right to unemployment insurance to employees who have resigned – subject to conditions – and to the self-employed, to reorganise the way unemployment insurance is financed and to modulate employers' contributions according to the rate of termination of contracts in enterprises. Title III reinforces the rights of disabled workers, in particular by consolidating the framework for the intervention of suitable undertakings and reaffirming the principle of a 6 % obligation to work. With regard to occupational equality and the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, the draft law aims to establish a transparent indicator in order to better enforce equal pay, and to better inform employees of remedies available in cases of harassment. Measures are also provided for illegal work and posted workers. Our group welcomes once again these important advances aimed at building a society of skills. During the various stages of the examination of this text, the members of the MODEM Group contributed to its drafting. Twenty amendments from our group were adopted at first reading. One of them has made it possible to simplify the system of sanctions for failure by employers: the obligations will now be to carry out non-compulsory training and professional interviews. A second was the submission of a report on the effects of the extension of the age limit of apprenticeship and its possible extension to the beneficiaries of the RSA – active solidarity income – and the long-term unemployed beyond the age of 29 years. A third was the intervention of the Ombudsman to obtain the agreement of the legal representative in the event of a breach of contract requested by the apprentice, in order to avoid blockages in the event of a complex family situation. A fourth has added provisions concerning employees on the path of integration, with the recognition of the task of training integration structures through economic activity and the experimental extension of the object and the public covered by the professionalisation contracts, with a view to enabling persons away from employment to benefit from a contract of professionalisation of inclusion within the integration structures. One fifth clarified the funds allocated to the regions by stating that the payment of funds under territorial equalization must be made according to criteria defined after a negotiation procedure with the regions. A sixth amendment was intended to facilitate the use of telework for recognised disabled workers. During this new reading, our group will defend several amendments aimed at strengthening the rights of persons undergoing training or seeking employment, strengthening the mission of the regions in the field of information on trades, and ensuring that the remaining conditions are met by the costs of learning in firms with fewer than 50 employees. We also hope that the experiment proposed in Article 34 concerning the establishment of a logbook will be put in place with the authorization of the applicant for employment. We are also pleased that an amendment adopted by the Senate entrusts the social partners with the task of setting the conditions for the compensation of jobseekers, in order to meet the challenges of opening rights to new beneficiaries. It is indeed through a discussion between employee unions and employers' unions that an agreement can be reached in favour of protective and incentive compensation. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The MODEM Group is pleased with the progress that this bill will make, and with the improvements that have been made to it during the various readings in the National Assembly and the Senate. We hope that this new reading in open session will take place calmly and that we will usefully complement this important text for the future of our young people. We also hope that it will enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u133	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u134	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, today we are starting a new stage in the consideration of the bill on freedom to choose one's professional future. This new reading represents for this text – let us dare the word – the stage of the last chance. More precisely, this is the last chance for you to get a broad majority on a text that is essential for employees and job seekers, although it is often technical in nature. How can we make our know-how known? How can you validate your skills? How can they be adapted to technical developments? How can new knowledge be acquired in order to complement and reinforce those already acquired either in the context of initial training or through professional experience? It is all these questions that your bill must strive to answer. In the labour market, career paths have replaced work situations and fluidity outweighs rigidities. Mobility, whether experienced or voluntary, has become a constant feature of the professional routes of our fellow citizens, and this trend will become even more pronounced in the future. Both employees and self-employed workers must have efficient tools, simple, easily understandable and accessible, in order to master the turning points that every career path has to experience – that is to say, in order to secure occupational transitions. Vocational training is one of these tools. It can be the cornerstone of the occupational safety of employees, because it allows them to remain at a level of competence compatible with an employer's expectations. This suitability, in terms of initial training, is also the advantage of apprenticeships and alternance training: it is a matter of leaving a purely generalist and theoretical approach to promote the acquisition of technical skills and knowledge, which can be immediately valued in the labour market – and, if I dare say so, valuable in the eyes of the employer. Our debates in committee and in committee have shown, I think, that everyone in this House is aware of the essential character of vocational training for the future of our country's employees or self-employed. Similarly, we all share a broadly similar view of the major challenges of the necessary reform of vocational training which our country must undertake. Vocational training must be more easily accessible to those who need it most, i.e. the least trained employees and job seekers. It must be a driving force for professional development in the company, and its tools must be mobilizable in all companies, including SMEs and TPEs. It must enable us to cope with the profound changes in the professions announced by the digital revolution in the years to come and to anticipate these changes by opening up the most suitable training routes. So if, on most of the benches in this House, we agree with both the findings and the stakes, where does it come from that we cannot draw as broad an agreement as possible on the content of this reform? In the absence of consensus, however, a broad agreement would give your reform the strength it will need to be implemented, over the course of the coming months and years, and thus to be fully effective. In spite of this, your majority, the minister, seems to want to move away from such an agreement: that is at least what she showed us in committee, rejecting without any other form of trial the progress that the reform had made in the Senate. Even though the discussion of the constitutional bill has been disturbed by the current situation, the question must be asked: what is the interest of bicameralism? It is not only a matter of having two democratic legitimacys coexist in Parliament through two different elected assemblies that ensure the widest diversity of national representation. Nor is it necessary to ensure the confrontation of ideas between two assemblies with differing political orientations, even though this confrontation is essential for democracy. Bicameralism also allows, in view of the political diversity of the two chambers, to enrich the texts through the parliamentary shuttle, in order to obtain a wider agreement on its content. On this very important text for the future of employees, businesses and the labour market, it would be useful if the in-depth reform of vocational training were the result of the widest possible agreement of the groups of our Assembly – and, beyond that, of the political families they represent. The Senate amended the text adopted by your majority alone at first reading by adopting several provisions – which were in line with those that our group, like others, proposed a month ago in this House. These amendments did not affect the fundamental balance of your bill. That is why we regret that last week the Social Affairs Committee confined itself to re-establishing the text adopted by the National Assembly last June.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u135	[[At 18:55, Ms Carole Bureau-Bonnard replaced Mr François de Rugy in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u136	The amendments adopted by the Senate were in fact intended, in accordance with the repeated wish expressed by the IDU Group, to act and independent, to improve the balance between regions and branches in terms of apprenticeship and vocational training. They were also generally aimed at strengthening the role of the regions. In terms of guidance, the text adopted by the Senate allowed them to set up with the State a regional guidance committee to coordinate the bodies participating in the regional public guidance service. It also laid down the principle of shared leadership between regions and professional branches of the vocational training system and apprenticeship. This change clearly laid the foundations for a partnership between the regions and the branches, within a decentralised and territorialised framework, which would make it possible to better grasp the economic opportunities of the territories in order to provide training more adapted to the expectations of employers and employees in their labour market. In addition, the Senate text complemented the learning reform with provisions to encourage the discovery of trades or to prepare 3rd grade students for learning. All these measures were likely to contribute to the upgrading of this training sector and to make it more attractive, both to young people and to the minds of their families. However, you have gone back to each of these provisions, without taking into account the convergences which these common-sense proposals might have been the subject of. The IDU Group, acting and independent, wishes, during this new reading, to find a balance which will ensure the effectiveness of this reform of vocational training. Our group has identified a red line that will determine its vote on this bill: the degree of regional involvement in the implementation of vocational training and alternance training. We do not question your willingness to give more power to the professional branches in the development of training standards and the definition of certification diplomas and training. However, we remain convinced that the regions have expertise in both vocational training and apprenticeship. That is why we will reaffirm in this debate all the specificity of the role of the regions and the added value they can bring to your reform because of their economic knowledge of their territories. In particular, we propose the introduction of co-piloting between regions and professional branches at the level of the territories in the field of apprenticeships. This is the compromise solution that several groups in the Senate have proposed to take into account both the logic of your reform and the realities of the territories. We really believe, Madam Minister, that it is possible on this point to arrive at a solution that brings our views together in order to achieve a truly effective vocational training system. Beyond vocational training and apprenticeship, we believe that a number of questionable points deserve clarification from the majority and the Government. Thus, our group is reluctant to believe that the personal training account of a job seeker can, as your system allows, be mobilised for training chosen by Pôle emploi. A link to the reform of the reasonable offer of employment amounts to forcing the job-seeker to accept, under penalty, training which he would not have wanted. However, the whole interest of the personal training account is to allow for the freedom of choice of the holder, who becomes a full player in his training. Accompaniment through the professional development council is the best way to guide him in his choices. Our group is also opposed to the possibility of opening an apprentice's employment visit to the city doctor. Apart from the fact that we can legitimately ask ourselves whether this is indeed the role of the general practitioner, it is above all the financing of this provision which does not seem to us to be clearly assured: who, of the company or of the apprentice and his family, will ensure the cost of this visit, and within the framework of which care by the social security? Clearly, this provision does not meet a legitimate objective, however, that of remedying the shortage of doctors at work, a subject on which our group has been drawing the attention of the State for several years. In addition, we call for caution on the provisions that you intend to confirm regarding the modalities for implementing the social responsibility of digital platforms towards their employees. While we obviously agree with the principle, the method used, namely an optional charter, does not seem to us to guarantee the effectiveness of the scheme. In addition, the solution you are proposing gives the feeling of creating a hybrid status, between the self-employed and the employee, a status that is in reality quite vague and which can be the source of new legal uncertainty. We agree that this issue of the social responsibility of digital platforms needs to be addressed, but in a more constructed way. Finally, we are also puzzled by the change in method adopted on the reform of unemployment insurance and on the regulation of permits and short contracts. Again, of course, we share the objective, and can only look with interest at the call for consultation with the social partners. However, we are surprised at what appears to be a change of strategy with respect to the original provisions of the bill. We do not see the link between these different logics, and the debates in committee did not resolve our questions. Finally, before concluding, I would like to recall two points which seem essential to the IDU Group, to act and to be independent in the context of this reform of vocational training. First of all, there is a need to take more account of the needs of emerging sectors. In the case of new occupations, the training needs in these fields are obviously important, in order to qualify the employees whom these companies are seeking to develop in their markets. However, these new courses, because they are recent, do not have the means to finance the necessary training. One of the criteria for the success of your vocational training reform will thus be to enable these sectors to benefit from a pooling mechanism so that they can implement the training arrangements and repositories necessary to meet their qualifications expectations. Secondly, the allocation to the USSRAF of responsibility for the collection of financing for vocational training and the allocation of funding by France Competencies should not lead to neglecting the need to sanctuarise the appropriations for vocational training. The experience of the Joint Fund to secure career paths shows that the allocation of funds does not go unchallenged.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u137	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u138	By contributing to the lifelong learning effort, companies make a real investment in human resources. The mobilisation of the sums collected for this purpose must have as a corollary the guarantee that they are used exclusively for this purpose. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LR group]] Our group therefore addresses this second reading with the desire to make a real contribution to a reform that can bring together widely, with proposals that, without calling into question the general architecture of the bill, take more account of the territories, in particular the regions. The amendments we will be presenting are all intended to contribute to the development of a reform that will bring tangible and lasting improvements to the results of our apprenticeship and vocational training system. It is now up to the Government and the majority to demonstrate their genuine willingness to open up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u139	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u140	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, many things have been said, and many will be said again – this is the exercise. We are gathered here to review, in new reading, the bill for the freedom to choose one's professional future. It must be noted that this text has suffered many ills, not corrected during our debates in committee. First of all, I have already noted the lack of evaluation of recent reforms in this area, with the establishment of tools that are nevertheless notoriously successful – we noted at first reading. Just as you had buried part of the penitential account on points which are important for the life and health of employees who are weakened by their employment throughout their working life, this time we are witnessing the privatisation of the CEP and the introduction of a monetised and largely undervalued CPF, as well as the transformation of the CIF – individual training leave – into a transitional CPF, with a division by two of the budgets, even though the CIF allows 97 % of unskilled workers to obtain their first diploma, that 30 % of them experienced an increase in socio-occupational category within the following 12 months and that the balance sheet of the FONGECIF – individual training leave management funds – was very good. We believe that on all these points you are in error, Madam Minister. Then, we had already noted a desired haste, and to say the least shocking. At first reading, the text was tabled even though negotiations were under way. And on another reading, it would have taken no more than 48 hours between the end of the examination of the text in the Senate, the CMP and the meeting of our Social Affairs Committee, and no more than 24 hours between the tabling of the committee's text and the deadline for tabling amendments to the sitting. These are not reasonable time frames for a law of this importance. In the same way, forty-five hours of discussion of this text in two readings in the National Assembly do not allow serious discussion of job insecurity or the career path in the civil service. Finally, with regard to disability, Madam Minister, you describe the measures as "revolutionary". That is not the qualifier we give to these provisions. Despite all the promises of Secretary of State Sophie Cluzel, this bill is a missed appointment. On such a sensitive subject, subject to very high legitimate expectations, this text refers to ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u141	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u142	We do not understand that at all. At the same time, there is a certain dichotomy on this subject, since many employees with disabilities have seen their work bonus, which sometimes represented 10% to 15% of their resources, abolished from 1 July. The appointment is also missed for ocean France. Yet our overseas territories suffer from many specificities, including their very high unemployment rates, due to their demographics and geography. At the same time, they have strong potentials that would have deserved a real debate before national representation, as I said in the sitting. Fortunately, the overseas delegation has been very active, leading to the adoption of two amendments by the national representation, two amendments that I had the honour to introduce, not amended in the Senate, to open up new training spaces for young people in their ocean basin. Only two, I was going to say, Madam Minister! But I thank you for having, during the debates, become aware of the stakes of the ultramarine territories and to invite us, from the beginning of the new year, to co-build the arrangements that will be dedicated to them. I know that you have reiterated this proposal to honourable senators. To return to the text as a whole, the New Left Group is, like many of us, for its simplification. But it alone cannot be the alpha and the omega of a reform of vocational training, apprenticeship and unemployment insurance. Simplification should not be at the expense of legal protections for apprentices, whose status will be close to the common law. Simplification is not the monetisation of one hour's training to 12 euros when one hour of training is known to cost on average 37 euros. Simplification, too, is not a different treatment between private employees and public officials who will retain an appreciation in hours. As for emancipation, it is not to make it compulsory to mobilise the funds of the person's CPF, for example in the context of vocational retraining, nor to oblige the applicant to affix the cost of his training if his rights, or rather his training credits, are not sufficient. We will, of course, continue to defend our positions, but for the time being the New Left Group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u143	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u144	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my remarks, which I assure you will deal with the text that will be before us from today, let me say in this rostrum and in this House how difficult it is to resume the normal course of our activities in such ambient chaos. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] There is of course, everyone will understand, a state crisis and therefore, in fact, an unprecedented crisis of confidence. At this time, our eyes, like those of our fellow citizens who are interested in the political life of our country, obviously turn to the work of the Committee on Laws transformed into a committee of inquiry,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u145	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u146	He says what he wants!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u147	He has the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u148	... in order to draw conclusions as to the strength of the Government, which is obviously seriously and sustainably affected. This particular atmosphere makes the task that is ours at this moment unenthusiastic. Where are the stable interlocutors? What is the share of "theatrical" in what is happening here, to take up the term of the President of the National Assembly? For if there are actors in this assembly, they are probably not on the benches of the opposition. At this time, I could seek your opinion or appreciation, Madam Minister, on the sanction decided in May by the Elysée against Mr. Benalla because, as shocking as it may seem, it was only a matter of labour law! Disciplinary or conservatory dismissal is not covered by the same provisions. We learned in the press that Mr. Benalla's lay-off had been effective from 4 to 19 May, but earlier, in his hearing, the police prefect spoke several times on 8 May, the day he might have met Mr. Benalla in a ceremony, before he went back and said that he finally did not know very well what ceremony he had seen him in.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u149	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u150	Stay calm!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u151	Your demonstration is drawn by the hair!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u152	On the contrary, it is very interesting! The majority is embarrassed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u153	In the dishonest counter-offensive that some members of the majority have launched, flouting an opposition that would never make any proposals, there is a notorious lack of respect for our work, as we spend our lives making proposals that, like a band, you reject as a whole. He also said that we would be obstructing to avoid working on constitutional reform, which is now being put on the closet for the reasons we know. And, of course, the members of the majority say that we are here to work, that we have been elected to work, and to work, and still work... But it is not because you use this word in all sauces, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that your credibility is a little increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u154	[[Exclaims on various benches]] Mr. Quatennens, try to deal with the subject that brings us together, that is, this bill. You said in the introduction that you were going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u155	He uses his speaking time as he hears!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u156	Until the provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u157	Madam President, my introduction is nearing completion, thank you for not interrupting me again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u158	I'll interrupt you again if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u159	At the most, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are making a mockery of yourself, because your interventions and your wish to continue our work as if nothing happened that should be interrupted above all, in the eyes of as many people as possible, indicate your inability to measure the gravity of the moment and the point of no return now reached by this running Republic which no longer seems to be walking straight. The language tricks that suggest a reactivity from the knowledge of the facts are, like the refocusing of attention on the actions of Mr. Benalla, from the powder to the eyes. We want to make it seem that the knowledge of the facts goes back a few days, while it goes back almost three months. We want to make it sound that the problem is more individual than systemic, but no one can believe it for a moment. This morning, the minister, you said in the press that your concern is that on the occasion of this new reading of your bill the opposition is obstructing. It has never been a question for the opposition to obstruct, and it is no longer an issue at this time. Madam Minister, if you want to know where those responsible for the obstruction you fear are, they are sitting right behind you, on the benches of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u160	We're in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u161	Indeed, while today everyone seems to agree on the urgent need for a commission of inquiry, it is indeed the majority who, for almost two days, have obstructed the opposition's request. The mess, ladies and gentlemen, is you! The right order, and the methodical treatment of problems, is opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u162	You're burning up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u163	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Now that this development has been completed, I turn to the bill. Just as your orders facilitate lay-offs and encourage the precarization of work, this project, from our point of view, completely misses employment issues. In this area, too, we believe that you do not take into account the seriousness of the situation. Your bills often have a positive but cosmetic effect for employees, and a real negative effect in terms of reducing their social rights. On the contrary, they are often new gifts, with little positive effect on most of our country's economic activity. Madam Minister, it seems that you will never be reminded enough here that employment in our country is in short supply, that on average there is an unfilled job for about forty-four unemployed people, and that eight out of ten newly signed contracts are short contracts, whereas they are supposed to be exceptions. The Government's fiscal measures also favour the holders of capital: we are the world's champions, not only in football, but also in the distribution of dividends. As Bloomberg magazine says, it is in our country that billionaires get the most rich, without any virtuous effect verified for the economy. In 20 years, while dividends have increased by 200 per cent, the average wage has increased by only 14 per cent, while at the same time the number of poor people in our country has increased by 1.6 million people. Currently, according to Oxfam's study, 65% of profits are allocated to dividends, 27% to investments and only 5% to wage increases. The hyper-financialization of our economy is ruining the country's activity because of a lack of investment and a reduction in purchasing power. However, the Government's budgetary choices encourage and accelerate this development. You want proposals to relaunch the activity, here are some of them. Invest heavily in ecological planning, rather than convoking green finance. Organize wealth sharing in order to actually increase purchasing power and its virtuous effect on order books, for example by increasing the SMIC or limiting the wage gap from one to twenty in the company. Share working time, as the facts show that this sharing is more effective than the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – now sustainable. Establish flexible quotas according to companies for the use of short contracts: 5% in large companies and 10% in SMEs, as we proposed in the presidential election. While we fear that your bonus-malus system will affect the unemployment insurance accounts if the bonuses paid prove to be higher than the malus, which is to be feared. Create solidarity protectionism and break with the deadly free trade that, in addition to being anti-democratic and anti-ecological, destroys jobs. As proof of this, the CETA treaty with Canada: the number of jobs that this agreement could potentially destroy in our country has been estimated at 45,000. Not to mention that last week, in the most complete opacity, the JEFTA agreement with Japan was ratified, without any parliamentarians or French citizens being able to be consulted or give their opinion. Generalize the experimentation of ATD Fourth World of Zero Unemployed Territory. It is known that on average a long-term unemployed person receives 15,000 euros per year. Let us therefore make the State the employer as a last resort, transforming this sum into an employment contract, which would be supplemented by missions that meet the needs of departments and regions. In light of the proposals I have just made, the measures in your bill seem very inconsistent. We will warn you: by monetizing the professional training account, you take the risk of reducing the existing right, given the amount you intend to credit this account and the average cost of an hour of training. This monetization is the result of an increase in the commodification of vocational training, which, and we regret it, is already undergoing, as a number of scandals attest, an offensive on the part of unscrupulous private bodies. Rather than allowing learning to become truly the path of excellence that you call for, you encourage it to serve the short-term branches and projects of companies, to the detriment of the regions and of the regulation that is necessary for this training framework. As far as unemployment insurance is concerned, the compensation promised to resignations and self-employed persons is, it must be said, very conditional. The strengthening of the control of the unemployed is down to everything that the reason seems to command: when we know that 86% of the unemployed controlled by the Employment Centre are in active search and that, of the remaining 14%, two thirds are not compensated, what is its meaning? Is there not, I ask you, something absolutely irrational to require job seekers to seek frantic employment, in what we know to be a context of shortage? I'm asking the question. Unemployment benefit fraud is estimated at around €60 million and its recovery rate at 90%. In comparison, employers' contribution fraud is estimated at $20 billion, and its recovery rate is barely 1.5%! What are you doing, Madam Minister, to control a few thug bosses instead of leading hard lives, as you want to do, to the unemployed? With regard to disability, the measures you are taking do not meet the challenges. We will also alert you to the possible effects of the liberalization of secondment work that your bill is carrying out. In short, we do not see where in your text what it calls "freedom to choose one's professional future" is located, unless it is in the part reserved for public servants, where they are encouraged to move from the public to the private and then to return to the public sector, a practice commonly known as slippers. With regard to the self-employment of employees who are well dependent on the platforms which sometimes impose on them until the wear of the uniform, in addition to all the other constraints, the Members of the House of Commons propose once again to strengthen the definition of self-employment in the Labour Code, specifying that self-employed workers cannot find themselves in a situation of economic subordination vis-à-vis a single originator. Recognized by the Court of Cassation, the criterion of economic subordination could in fact lead to the requalification as employees for workers who respond to them in their relationship with the platforms. Instead, the bill proposes an optional social charter to allow platforms to offer a number of guarantees and regulatory frameworks to workers, all without negotiation with the workers concerned, which, moreover, does not seem to be in line with a social dialogue, which you regularly praise us for. This social charter would be a kind of collective agreement of the new world. In the meantime, the condition of the workers on these platforms makes us make a big leap backwards, in the 19th century, that is, before the emergence of labour law. In conclusion, we will make several dozen proposals during the next reading of this bill, as usual, to help it achieve the goal set out in its title. But there is much to bet that, as usual, the majority will reject our proposals and go to the radio and television sets that we do not make any of them. As usual, you will be able to self-satisfy the passage of a bill with great pretensions but with meagre potentials, if not to make life easier for the minority for whom it is already a lot, and more difficult for the large number. As for the revival of permanent employment in our country, no doubt, and we deeply regret it, it will have to wait for your end of reign.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u164	Definitely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u165	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u166	It is based on Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure. With all due respect, Madam President, it is important to remember that the Members we are enjoy freedom of expression in this House. You have earlier, at the moment when our colleague Quatennens spoke, wanted to refocus his speech: this is not the habit here. Forgive me for making this point of order, but this freedom of parliamentarians is important. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir, NG and FI groups]] We have complete freedom of expression here. It is important that it can be fully and fully respected for all of us: we are national representation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u167	Thank you, Congressman. I simply reminded our colleague that speaking in the gallery during the general discussion required him to speak about the bill we are considering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u168	No, no, no, it's not the practice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u169	Having said that, I take your point into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u170	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u171	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we have come back to the point of departure. Indeed, the bill before us has evolved only at the margin. It has already been said many times how bad his name was, how hastily he was, how harmful it was for vocational training, jobless people, apprentices, and how much, finally, he was marked by the same obsessions as the previous texts. You choose once again to deregulate, privatize, and rely on the market. You continue to push the fires of the liberal state that passes the dishes to the profit-makers and throws itself out of its responsibilities. We are talking here about continuing vocational training, the right to learn, the right to raise the level of knowledge and skills. We're talking about work, being a full actor or actress of his work, being good at his work. You are defending a narrow conception, in which you have to train, according to the demand of the market, in tasks more than in trades, by granting certificates rather than diplomas, on his personal time in the absence of his professional time. [[Smile]] You announced a project that was going to be an event. He's already done pschitt for the first time. This time, he'll be pffing. You're selling us a dream. You had announced a great project that had to go from balm to prescriptions, for the employees. However, workers' unions do not seem to see things in this way. You were hoping for an agreement with the Senate, and you didn't – but maybe you didn't really expect it. This is a bill that can have serious consequences. Firstly, you are profoundly changing the organisation of vocational training and the rights attached to it for employees. The personal training account is converted into euro, resulting in a two-fold division of the actual training rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u172	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u173	Individual training leave is redone in a personal "transition" training account, with imprecise and uncertain contours. You privatize professional accompaniment by opening up the possibility for private for-profit agents to receive funds to carry out this free public service mission. You organize a large training market and therefore take the path of its "low-costing". You set no ambition for the public service of training, which exists and which should be developed. You create an organisation, France Compétences, responsible for distributing market shares and whose mode of governance is referred to government decisions which will only be monitored ex post by Parliament. We are far from the stakes of collectively guaranteeing individual rights to training and support, of training in occupations leading to a recognised qualification, of raising the overall level of knowledge and qualifications, of enabling the development of a high level of education and a professional culture enabling every worker to contribute fully, through his or her work, to meet the needs and to change the work itself and the organisation and methods of production. We are therefore concerned about the future quality of our vocational training system, as well as its ability to combat inequalities. Second, you dismantle our information and guidance system. You are undermining the resources of ONISEP – National Information Office on Teachings and Professions. You plan to attack the information and guidance centres, which are accessible to all and driven by trained and informed staff. These are partly savings measures and partly consolation lots for the regions. The organization thus obtained is incoherent, but you manage to give it a logical meaning in relation to your reform: you want in fact to place the orientation in an appropriateistic logic, that is to say only guided by the response to the demands of a market in any case today very small. Thirdly, you are depriving the right of learning, as you detrigued labour law last fall. This status is all the more particular since it applies to young people and falls within the scope of initial training, therefore education, not continuing education or continuing training. The protections of apprentices are revised downwards: you are indeed extending their working time to 40 hours, even though they are younger and must also provide theoretical work. You make it easier to break contracts and make a derogation from the visit of specialists such as doctors at work. You fully privatize the training of apprentices and create the conditions for severe competition between the various centres, without even guaranteeing, in each territory, the minimum conditions for their operation in the light of the general interest. Fourthly, after promoting precarious contracts in the fall with the orders, you have included unemployment insurance in this bill. By means of a presidential amendment that has been announced to us live in Congress, you want to guarantee a right to non-contributors, which could be discussed if we did not seek to give a new coup de masse in the building of social security. This seems all the more to be your objective as the open rights would be for a tiny part of the independents. You can take advantage of this to create a new status of sub-employee for the workers of the platforms, which institutionalizes their precarization: a job without a contract of employment that is also presented to us as a great social advance. As for the resignations, it might have been a good idea to look for compensation schemes, but these are still marginal. The announced universalization is therefore not at the rendezvous. It is all the less so since there are millions of unemployed women in our country who are not compensated – 45 per cent, I believe. Your project will further worsen the situation, as it tightens the controls, instead of strengthening the accompaniment. Employment will become a judge and part of the cancellations, which may further alter the relationship between the institution and job seekers. As for the great idea, which emerged from a holiday book, of setting up a dashboard, this is a vexatious and revolting measure, which will increase the daily difficulties of many people deprived of jobs without creating better conditions for successful research. On the other hand, you leave aside the fraud of employers' contributions. Fifthly, some of the provisions of the bill erode, if not more, the foundations of the public service. The Senate had not done miracles. Some of its provisions were in the wrong direction. However, some aspects of this poor reform had been mitigated. But you didn't. At first reading, you had accepted a very good amendment on the training of carers, as well as another to ask for a report on the non-use of rights, which Aurélien Taché mentioned earlier. We welcome this, but you will understand that, in view of the presentation I have just made, it does not make any difference! Three remarks to finish. First, I regret that you are forcing national representation to legislate in haste, using the accelerated procedure – which has become a way of life – or the scheduled legislative time. That's the limit to the legislative goinfrery! Deliberation and the time for debate do not affect the management of the country, the quality of political decision-making, the scope of reforms, in a world where everything is accelerated. It takes time to think about the long time – and we have to think about it together, not just here, between us, but also beyond. Secondly, I would like to stress once again the waste which this text represents. Yet there would be much to do, even if it would not be enough to heal the damage of a devastating economic system. One could thus imagine an innovative system of social security for employment and training, which would allow employees to actually raise their level of qualification during their professional careers and adapt to changes. This would provide at least a partial response to the long-standing mass unemployment in our country. Sending this back to individual responsibility is unfair and dangerous. Finally, I urge you to remove the liberal glasses that lead you to pass everything to the mill from the requirements of the profit sensors, to deregulate everything, to deregulate, to sell, to privatize. On the contrary, I invite you to attach greater importance to what society is saying to you, to what the actors in each of the areas concerned are telling you, to what the trade union organisations are telling you. There is not on the one hand the magical reforms that you propose and on the other the resistances of an ancient world. This is an erroneous account, by which your minds protect themselves. There are realities, there are needs, there are aspirations. The invisible hand of the market has nothing to do with it. We will therefore continue to alert you and make other proposals during the debate. Minister, as you mentioned earlier, Simone de Beauvoir...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u174	A very nice quote!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u175	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and FI groups and on some benches of the LR group]] ...and that I am a bit of a player, I invite you, if this bill were to be passed as you wish, to meditate on Simone de Beauvoir's alternative formula: "Any success disguises an abdication. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u176	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u177	Madam Chair, Minister, the Chair of the Commission, Mr. and the rapporteurs, we are here today to consider your bill, Madam Minister, at second reading. This not only constitutes a real reform, but also opens up new rights, without calling into question those enjoyed by jobseekers today. For the latter, this will represent a new accompaniment, which will be based in the first place on a relationship of trust with the employment adviser, a less technocratic relationship, where purely administrative logic will no longer prevail over the effectiveness and interest of the person who is a job seeker, in the literal sense of the term. New rights will be open to the growing number of self-employed, as well as to resignations. However, it will be ensured that access conditions are stringent and that this is not a boon effect, but a safety net for some and a possibility to change professional projects, if they so wish, for others. The text also includes a real reform of unemployment insurance, which allows it to be universalised, which we assume, which introduces a tax financing mechanism, via the CSG, and which allows employees to see their wages increase thanks to the abolition of their social security contributions. What is curious is that the opposition never talks about it. That's too bad! Finally, the draft law provides for the possibility of drawing up a scoping letter in order to involve the State more closely in the management of UNEDIC by the social partners. I will conclude, Madam Minister, by referring to short contracts, which, for some of them, can unquestionably be a drift fuelling the precariousness and poverty of people who are employed. You will submit to Article 33 an amendment which we will support, and which will seek to ask the social partners, who will be the prominent players in the scheme, to broaden their scope and negotiate a new unemployment insurance. We look forward to it. Nevertheless, it seems to us important that the provisions which had been validated at first reading, namely the introduction of a bonus-malus mechanism, continue to be relevant, in accordance with the commitment made by the President of the Republic during the presidential campaign. It would be unfair for permittance to be subject to a reform which would concern only job seekers, leaving aside those who sign an employment contract leading to short, if not very short, contracts without any justification for the activity. Minister, in a recent poll, 70% of French people expressed support for the provisions contained in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u178	Yes! Thank you for reminding him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u179	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So we will do the same as the French: we will support your bill with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u180	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u181	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this legislative marathon, we regret two things, Madam Minister: the unpreparedness of your bill and its disconnection from reality. Since the start of the examination, our assembly has suffered particularly from the obvious unpreparation of the text. On the form, first of all, we quickly stopped counting the number of amendments tabled by the Government at night – amendments that, in addition, heavily altered the balance of the text. I have to tell you: these are not methods capable of establishing a peaceful democratic climate. This is a serious lack of respect for the rights of the opposition, as well as a serious lack of respect for social dialogue. Trade union organisations, which have been bypassed or disavowed throughout the debates, are no longer considered by you, by this "new world", as social partners. As far as the form is concerned, I will not go back to the extremely tight deadlines that have been imposed on us to amend and examine this text. Instead, I will insist on the Pavlovian reflex that characterizes your method of referring constantly to prescriptions. Yet here, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a fundamental text both for the future of our most fragile and remote compatriots of employment and for the future of thousands of our young people. In spite of its importance, you have presented us, Madam Minister, with a text accompanied by an impact assessment at least partial, amendments to the presentations more than summary and often unconvincing answers to our questions, in particular with regard to the conversion of training hours into euros or the abolition of the individual training account. All this brings me to the bottom. I will not go into detail, I will not repeat the debate, but we continue to question the real contributions this text will bring to our citizens. In the next few hours, we shall continue to propose amendments to you, without making too many illusions about the fate you will set for them. Indeed, only 0.5% of the amendments that we have proposed to you at first reading, all of which are opposed, have been adopted. Of course, we are in opposition to your policy, but that is why we consider that more than 99% of our proposals would be illegitimate! There is clearly a lack of consideration for the opposition that we are making. I was talking about a text that was disconnected from reality. I will take as an example the ultramarine example – I could just as well have taken the example of your relations with the trade unions or representatives of the regions. This example shows that, through assumed verticality, you are implementing out-of-ground reforms that, sooner or later, will prove their inefficiency or even their danger to the rights of our fellow citizens. We have told you and repeated that your reform will be inapplicable overseas. This fact, however, you yourself acknowledged from your first hearing in committee and it was confirmed by the Association des régions de France. For any reply, and in spite of the excellent work done by our delegation to the overseas countries and its three co-rapporteurs, you have decided to reject the proposed amendments, with the exception of two, and to refer us to a decree to define "the special modalities of application relating to the arrangements and financing of vocational training" in our territories, which towards an order to "adapt the provisions" of the text to the overseas communities. Minister, I am not used to letting go of the prey for the shadows. I tell you this clearly: the transfer of the management of apprenticeship training centres to the professional branches in our overseas territories would have deserved specific treatment, which would have been discussed in this chamber and not in ministerial negotiations – although I acknowledge that you promised to take parliamentarians into account and involve them in these discussions. Given the structure of the overseas labour market, the specificities of the public service of training at home and its cost, the new organisation and the new financing of vocational training in our overseas countries would have deserved a discussion and a thorough examination of the amendments we have proposed to you. With regard to our territories, the Government is constantly talking about differentiation and reflex overseas. However, it must be noted that you have no ambition or vision for them, and that there is no legislative translation of any action in their favour. [[Applause on several benches in the NG group]] Minister, we are now in the last straight line. I dare to believe that, for the benefit of the parliamentary shuttle, you will be able to provide answers to all of our questions and that our discussions will enable you to give favourable opinions to the opposition's proposals, so that this reform is really useful to our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u182	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u183	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of training, apprenticeship and unemployment insurance is the second aspect of the renewal of our social model, after the modernisation of labour law and social dialogue. It stresses once again our will to rethink the system globally, to make it more efficient, more readable and simpler. By investing heavily in training to create a society of skills, we offer everyone the opportunity to rethink their social and professional life path and to fight against determinism. The world of work has changed, and the notion of linearity of journeys is obsolete.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u184	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u185	Through the Freedom to Choose Your Professional Future Bill, we are providing all our citizens with the tools they need to rethink their professional orientations and careers. From several observations, such as the internationalisation of competition, the profound evolution of the professions – 50% of them will be profoundly transformed or eliminated by 2030 – the unemployment rate still very high, the fact that the inclusion of people with disabilities does not meet the objectives set or that the occupational inequality between women and men persists, we are all responsible today for the need to adapt our arrangements to the changes in society of the 21st century. These objectives have not been shared by the Senate, with more than seventy articles that it has deleted or substantially altered. We regret a partial vision and little adapted to current issues. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we wanted to re-establish the original text, by adopting adjustments and consolidating certain points which the Senate has, however, been able to suggest. It is through the monetization of the personal training account that we will make the system more readable for employees. Through a new and largely simplified framework for learning, we will also facilitate the system, in particular through the single and automatic support for all apprenticeship contracts. The opening of a new right to unemployment benefit for resignations in vocational retraining and self-employed persons is an unprecedented measure, which responds to a new social challenge and helps to avoid disruptions of career paths. Title III of the bill is ambitious: inclusion in employment is the key to a change of view that must value the inclusion of all and ensure equality in employment between women and men. By re-establishing the articles on the employment of disabled workers, we confirm the scope of the employment obligation to all public and private employers, including national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u186	We must also deal with this issue in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u187	We also allow the integration of trainees, even unpaid, into the employment obligation declaration, to facilitate meetings between employers and employees and to set up a new mechanism for this purpose. We have thus created a new case of recourse to temporary employment, specifically dedicated to the employment of disabled workers. We believe in these social innovations. On detached work, we had moved things forward at first reading. The ban on the posting of French workers in France was thus a response to a legal flaw too often used by cross-border companies. This aspect is maintained as it stands. With regard to professional equality between women and men, the change in philosophy and legislation is major. We want to go even further by imposing, within each company, an obligation of result on a global remuneration dynamic, and transparency on these results. In this regard, we would like to highlight the amendment tabled in new reading by the Government. This obligation to achieve results will no longer be based solely on the principle of equal pay for equal work, but will also include other parameters for assessing the real equality of treatment between women and men. Finally, we encourage professional mobility between the civil service and the private sector. We are therefore going back to the complete deletion by the Senate of all articles relating to this topic. We believe it is necessary to open the public service to society, and to accept the bridges and mutual contributions between professionals. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we can underline the major advance of this future law, which places the individual at the centre of the steps to make him or her an actor of his or her professional future and promotes the inclusion of everyone by lifting certain obstacles, directing the device towards an obligation of result and encouraging change of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u188	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u189	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u190	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u191	With Title I, and in particular Article 1, we deal with the question of the means available to employees for training. As we have said on several occasions at first reading, we are far from convinced that the monetization of the personal training account provided for in this article is a relevant solution for the readability and effectiveness of the training course for employees. In each of your answers, the minister, you argue that the previous situation is the worst, that it does not work, and that we must therefore upset everything. Either, but the future will tell us very quickly if you're right. Yes, we are convinced of the importance of vocational training; Yes, we are convinced that jobs are changing and that employees must benefit from the best training conditions in order to cope with these changes and adapt to new jobs. Yes, we are also convinced that vocational training suitable for everyone, and really intended for integration into their own profession or into a new occupation, may be likely to contribute to the elimination of unemployment. But we are far from convinced of the effectiveness of monetizing the personal training account. We are also concerned about the individualisation of the scheme, which, by empowering the employee, removes him, in my opinion, in any case, from a genuine training plan co-built with the company. This will, in fact, create instability within the company. However, I will note one point of satisfaction: the personal training account will now take into account the particular situation of certain workers, such as persons with disabilities and those with low qualifications, who will benefit from a greater abundance, the monetization of which, however, suggests that the sums paid will only rarely be sufficient to finance fully adapted training. We will therefore continue to defend amendments, even if we know that you will all refuse them, in order to improve the abundance of personal training accounts and to allow employees access to a quality training policy, adapted to the reality of individual needs throughout the working life, but also to the reality of the needs of our country's economy. We will, of course, be very vigilant about the introduction of this new system, and about the positive and negative impacts it may have on access to vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u192	We come to the amendments to the article. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1 and 79, to delete it. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u193	It will not surprise anyone that we propose the deletion of this article, emblematic of the logic of your reform of vocational training in that it aims to individualise and reduce rights. The reasons for our opposition are many, but I will mention two. First of all, the CPF in euros consists of making available to workers a "training check", inspired by the scheme which exists in Germany. It will result, compared to the CPF in hours, in a reduction in the number of hours of training for the persons concerned, this has been proven many times, and raises fears of a logic of "low cost" training, adjusted to the amount of the cheque recorded by the persons. In the absence of sufficient funds, it will be up to those who want to train to ensure the complement with their own money. Your "freedom to choose your professional future" will then be a freedom to finance your choices. What's more unequal? Secondly, the abolition of individual training leave, in the name of a so-called simplification, is a real social regression. This legacy of the 1971 Act is the only tool by hand of the employee to train without the agreement of his employer, and with own funding. The transitional CPF, which is intended to replace it, will not grant the same level of training rights as the CIF, which now corresponds to 1200 hours of training. In our view, the bets you take will help maintain or even increase the inequalities in access to training that your reform claims to be fighting. Once again, it will be the managers and the best financially endowed, the most resourceful, who will have access to vocational training. So we are in this logic of society of resourcefulness. We are also opposed to the underlying logic of a hyper-individualisation of social rights, which places responsibility for the employability of the individual on the labour market. On the contrary, we believe that the CPF and access to training should be part of a broad public service of training and support, as well as job security and training where individual rights are guaranteed collectively. All this is missing from your reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u194	I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u195	Like the bill as a whole, section 1 re-emphasizes a step forward for the country's employees when it is not. Like the text as a whole, it is a communication tool that makes us believe that new rights are being opened up, while at the same time it reduces those that already exist. Established in 2015, the personal training account is provided 24 hours a year, up to a maximum of 150 hours. The CPF has many difficulties, and we would, of course, be in favour of reviewing its operation in order to ensure its access to as many people as possible. In particular, its complexity favours executives in large companies, while only 15% of jobseekers benefit from it. The Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs also proposed doubling the feeding rate and the ceiling. In her view, an increase to 48 hours per year and a ceiling of 300 hours would provide access to more comprehensive, valued and useful training. The reform of the CPF provided for by the Government in Article 1 nerne does not address these issues at all. By feeding the CPF in euros rather than in hours of training, the Government makes false promises to employees and, in fact, reduces their training capacity. Taking into account the average cost of one hour of training, i.e. around 31 euros, the monetised CPF should, in order to remain stable, be fed at the level of 750 euros per year. This amount would only correspond to the maintenance of existing rights. However, the Government only plans to provide 500 euros per year. This is therefore a major reduction in training rights. The Government has used us to a great deal of communication skills, although recent events tend to be the opposite. In the columns of a newspaper, Madam Minister, you said that the Government would "offer" 500 euros a year to train. A quick analysis of this article shows, as I have just shown, that this is not true. That is why we are calling for its abolition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u196	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u197	I take this opportunity to explain once again the reasons for our strong commitment to Article 1. You are right, Mr. Dharréville, this is emblematic of the bill we are defending. It is important to recall its principles. We are very interested in the changeover to the CPF in euros as it is, in our view, the condition for the end-user to have simplified access to training, and a CPF in his hand. This, in my view, is an essential element of the success of the reform. As for the transitional CPF, there are 40,000 people per year, out of a total of 19 million people to be trained. The orders of magnitude are therefore far from the same. As Mr. Lurton observed, the account will be strengthened for the least qualified. This is also a step in the right direction, since, as you all know, training is watering where it is already wet: people who have already been trained are trained when the least qualified people do not have access to training. All this must stop, and that is the spirit of reform: a simpler access, in the hands of the individual, but also more equitable. We are therefore, of course, quite opposed to the deletion of this fundamental article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u198	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u199	Unfavorable, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u200	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u201	I want to go back to what I was talking about earlier. In your equation, monetization equals simplification, and therefore everything will work and employees will be happy. But things aren't that simple! As we have all explained to you, with the help of what has come back to us during the hearings, your monetization will reduce the fees, because it does not correspond to the average cost of training. Perhaps you are simplifying the system, but what is certain is that you are reducing the rights! We will therefore not be able to achieve the objectives we all aim to achieve, namely to enable people to benefit from training that is useful for their progress and their integration into the labour market.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u202	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u203	When we hear the Government speak of simplification, we must be wary: in this first year of the legislature, this word has often meant the reduction of social rights. Here, we have shown you that the conversion of hours into euros actually results in a reduction in the duties in force. Once again, you will leave the employees of our country alone with their besace – where, instead of hours, there will now be euros. And, during the march towards the individualization of formation, you will explain to them that if they do not form, it is only because of their fact that they have everything they need in their bag and that they must act for themselves! This is next to what we could do to better support employees and help them train. That is why, in our view, Article 1 is indeed a step backwards in good standing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u204	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u205	There are quite interesting arguments in what has just been said, in particular by Mr Pierre Dharréville. Monetization indeed presents a considerable risk, and first of all because the value that will be given is very different from the real value of the current portfolios in hours – the employee will lose the equivalent of half of his portfolio at one time. In addition, there is a question for the future: what about the employee's portfolio who is retiring or close to retirement? This wallet belongs to him: what will be the fate of it? We don't know anything, we don't have any evaluation. All we know is that you don't even want to send him back to another portfolio that would benefit the associations. We will therefore vote for the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u206	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-23-E1032.u207	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the bill on freedom to choose one's professional future. The meeting is adjourned.
