ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u1	[[Applause on all benches]] Prime Minister of Canada, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of national representation, I welcome Mr. Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada. I am very pleased, Prime Minister, that you have responded positively to my invitation to speak here to the Members of the National Assembly. To receive you here is, for all of us, an immense honour. Your visit today is, in two ways, a first. Since the beginning of this Parliament, you have been the first foreign Head of State or Government to speak in this House. Beyond that, you are, Prime Minister, the first representative of your country, Canada, to address our assembly. To some extent, we are repairing a gap by greeting, today, through you, Canada, a country not only allied, but also a friend, so close to the hearts and minds of the French, a country with which we have a unique relationship. Unique in history, whether it is ancient and dates back to times when the names "Acadie" and "New France" resonated, or more recent, with the indefectible "blood link" on the Vimy ridges in 1917 or the Juno Beach sand in 1944. [[Applause on all benches]] A unique relationship, also because of the French language, this precious asset that we share, to which I know you pay particular attention. You give practical life to bilingualism, which shows the refusal of linguistic uniformity and enshrines the co-officiality of English and French. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, after your election in 2015, you have brought new economic, social, societal and ecological dynamics to your country. You have put Canada back in the concert of great democratic nations, open to the world. You have fought both the popular isolationism in North America and the temptation of identity treachery and retreat, which exists all over the world. This allows our two countries to adopt approaches that are otherwise similar, at least convergent in the face of the major political, climate and security challenges of the moment. Prime Minister, your coming to this House is a strong testimony to the will of our two countries to deepen the ties that already bind them so closely. It is a sign of particular consideration for the French Parliament, of which we are particularly grateful. It is a testament to the desire of national representation to design its work taking into account the reality of the world, a world in which France has partners, allies, but also, as far as Canada is concerned, friends – I know how to say it today on behalf of all my colleagues. [[Applause on all benches]] Prime Minister, you have the floor to address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u2	[[Applause on all benches]] Mr. President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, dear friends, it was with gratitude and humility that I received the invitation to address your National Assembly. For the first time in this chamber, a Canadian Prime Minister spoke, a Canadian descendant of a French carpenter from La Rochelle, who, in the middle of the seventeenth century, had left his homeland in search of a new life on a continent then known as "new". The story of Étienne Truteau is that of countless Canadians who are also descendants of the first French arrivals who helped shape Canada. It is therefore with great emotion that I address you this afternoon in this place full of your history and the great debates that have marked France. My presence in the Chamber not only demonstrates the importance you attach to our partnership, but also a common desire to deepen the bonds of friendship that have been between our two peoples for centuries. Those who preceded us in our governments and parliaments have worked to make the world a better place: they have promoted the development of our economies; They have legislated to protect our workers; They ensured that all would have access to education, an effective health system and better opportunities. Yet, although our fellow citizens are healthier, richer and more educated than ever before, many are concerned about their future and that of their children. Anxiety is pernicious. It is nourished by a cost of living that increases as wages stagnate and jobs become more precarious, by the widening gaps between rich and poor,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u3	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u4	...by a middle class that becomes thinner, by the polarization of political discourse, by feelings of dispossession and impotence, within us and beyond our borders. [[Applause on many benches]] In too many countries, populism is spreading, democracy is eroding, symptoms of malaise that afflict our integrated world. Elsewhere, millions of people take the road, risking their lives, in search of a better future. And we cannot ignore the rising temperatures and a changing climate. We must admit that "change" is not always synonymous with "progress." Faced with the great challenges of our time, liberal democracies bear the responsibility of articulating a clear and convincing vision of the future to which they aspire and of the world they hope to build. This is the mandate given to us by our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Your invitation comes at a turning point. France is called upon to reflect on its role in the construction of Europe and, consequently, in the world order. In this regard, I welcome the unwavering commitment of the President of the Republic, once again underlined this morning in his speech to the MEPs in Strasbourg. Canada, for its part, is reflecting on its place in a world that is evolving constantly and rapidly. We wonder about the state of our planet and our ability to alleviate its evils. Should the crisis of globalization lead us to isolate ourselves, to retreat? Should Canada let fear and anxiety dictate its future and, above all, decide on the future of its children? That's just not who we are! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and NG groups]] [[Applause on all benches]] [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, NG, FI and GDR groups as well as several members of the LR group stand up and applaud at length]] At a time when political currents are exploiting the real concerns of their fellow citizens, Canada has chosen to counter cynicism with boldness and ambition. While many countries define themselves by opposing each other, Canada is asserting itself. We declare ourselves in this way for progressive trade, for diversity, for immigration, for environmental protection, for gender equality, for the rule of law, for democracy, for equality, for freedom! As the Enlightenment had pointed out, in the face of ignorance, let us choose reason; In the face of darkness, let us choose science, debate and progress! My remarks today will therefore focus on this positive, resolutely progressive approach that we have chosen to adopt and on what it means to the world. By drawing out the broad lines of renewed cooperation, I hope to be able to portray the next chapter of the relationship that unites us and, thus, to propel us together towards an even more promising and prosperous future. [[Applause on all benches]] The inequalities that persist in our societies leave room for doubt, concern and even hostility towards an integrated world. They are an obstacle to our prosperity. Indeed, we are all losers when our fellow citizens are excluded, whether because of their sex, origin, sexual orientation or gender identity. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group.– Ms and MM. Members of the LaREM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud]] No country can hope to reach its full potential without the participation of all its citizens, whatever they may be, wherever they come from, whatever their beliefs. France and Canada have made significant progress in this regard. We have both marked history by choosing a Council of Joint Ministers. I also note that this House is approaching parity. I thank the men who stood up for that too, but on that, I must say that in the Canadian Parliament, we still have a long way to go. And it is up to us to work every day for true gender equality at all levels, in all areas. Neither France, nor Canada, nor the five other most advanced economies in the world that make up the G7 can claim to have bridged these inequalities. That is why gender equality is the horizontal theme of the G7 summit that Canada will chair in Quebec, Charlevoix region, in June. Whether in economics, jobs or the environment, the conclusions adopted by the G7 members will have to contribute to genuine gender equality. Recognizing that public policies do not affect men and women in the same way, we need to look at each solution taking into account its effects on both sides. Through the themes of our presidency, we will thus seek ways of countering chronic low growth, the income gap and social inequalities, which erode not only the standard of living of the middle class, but also the people's confidence in world trade, international cooperation and liberal democracy. This explains our decision to establish the Advisory Council on Gender Equality, co-chaired by Ambassador Isabelle Hudon of Canada in France, and Ms. Melinda Gates, the great philanthropist. Their mission is precisely to ensure that gender equality is integrated into all the themes, activities and outcomes of Canada's presidency in the G7. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] The argument is simple: greater participation of women in the labour market is essential for the growth of our economies, especially as the average age of the G7 countries increases and the share of the labour force decreases. I am delighted, moreover, that France will succeed us in the G7 presidency, knowing that your President shares this wish to continue in this fight next year. When I think about Canada's future and the positive and bold role we intend to play, I see France at every chapter alongside us. Whether it is a question of progressive trade, of inclusion or of the environment, whether it is within the G7, the United Nations or the International Organization of la Francophonie, I see France as a positive influence that our world so much needs. France says it is for the protection of the environment. She appears to be a true leader on a global scale. Our two countries are united in their ambition to combat climate change, while making our economies grow in a sustainable way. On both sides of the Atlantic, we are making unprecedented investments in clean technologies and green infrastructure that stimulate growth and create good jobs for the middle class. As the world's countries seek to gain market share and try to create a place of choice in tomorrow's economy, Canada, like France, must foster sustainable development in order to maintain a competitive position. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] In the very first weeks of my government, in 2015, we participated actively in COP21. I would also like to commend France for its leadership in these negotiations and to recall the active role played by our Minister for the Environment and Climate Change, Catherine McKenna, in bringing the parties closer together in order to conclude the Paris agreement. Since that strong moment, my Government has worked with provinces, territories and Aboriginal peoples to provide Canada with a national framework on clean growth and climate change for the first time. In fact, we have chosen to tariff carbon pollution across the country and, like you, we have committed ourselves to abandoning coal and eliminating all the plants that operate this fuel by 2030. But if there is one thing that France and Canada are aware of, it is that the fight against climate change must be carried out on a global scale, since the consequences of global warming do not know borders. The unprecedented number of countries that have signed the Paris Agreement reflects the international consensus on the impact of human activity on the climate. It is up to us to make this agreement in principle a reality; it is up to us to ensure that our children and grandchildren can breathe fresh air and enjoy the wide spaces as we have done; it is up to us to seize the many business and job opportunities offered by a low-carbon economy. It was in this spirit of cooperation that President Macron and I celebrated yesterday the signing of the Franco-Canadian partnership for climate and the environment. Through this initiative, which aims to promote and accelerate the achievement of the Paris Agreement targets, we commit ourselves to intensifying our collaboration in order to implement concrete measures. Among other things, we are committed to reducing emissions from land, sea and air transport, promoting energy efficiency and integrating climate into development assistance. We will also mobilize other actors around the world to promote carbon pricing, and we will encourage research and analysis of the effects of environmental protection provisions in free trade agreements. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, NG and LR groups, as well as on some benches of the FI group]] From one generation to the next, Canadians and the French have always been able to cultivate a friendship capable of adapting to changes, capable of meeting major challenges and resisting the test of time. This friendship led our forefathers into the trenches of Vimy Ridge, a landmark battle for us Canadians, since it was on French soil that a true Canadian nation was established for the first time. [[Mrs. and Messrs. Members get up and applaud]] It is a friendship that I witnessed a year ago when I visited the Hauts-de-France to witness the commemorations surrounding the centenary of this battle of Arras, a friendship strengthened when, a generation later, Canada once again took up the defence of France. More than a million Canadians responded to the call and too many would never see their part again. Today, Dieppe, Juno Beach, Courseulles-sur-mer and so many others resonate in our national memory. Canada and Canadians remember. The horrors of war have highlighted our shared responsibility to act, engage and work with our partners to achieve our ambitions. If the Axis powers have been defeated, it is thanks to the joint action of states driven by a similar vision of the world and shared values. This work is still ongoing today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and NG groups]] Still recently, a murderous regime used chemical weapons against its own population. Faced with horror, the world had to react. That is why Canada has consistently supported the decision of France, the United States and the United Kingdom to intervene to diminish the ability of the Assad regime to launch such attacks. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Modern threats make cooperation among nations more relevant than ever before. Take, for example, the situation in Mali. France's role in restoring security and stability is an inspiration for the international community. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and NG groups, on several benches of the UDI-Agir group, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] Renewing this Canadian tradition, we will soon join France and the fifty-six other partner countries that support MINUSMA. What we see is that France is a nation that wants to give progress its impetus, whether it concerns environmental protection, the fight against violent extremism or the influence of the French language. Last month, the President of the Republic delivered a speech at the Académie française, in which he expressed his willingness to restore the French language to its place and role in the world. [[Applause on all benches]] He pointed out that French had "become this world language, this archipelago language," a fact that we are witnessing every day on Canadian soil. You must know, French friends, how attached Canadians are to the French language, those whose mother tongue it is, those who have learned it, those who, without speaking it, enroll their children in French immersion schools, or even those who are simply very proud to have this international language, this language of culture, this beautiful language, like one of our two official languages. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, LR, NG and GDR]] If the French language is still so alive in North America, four centuries after the birth of a French cradle on the continent, it is that Canada, particularly Quebec, is deeply committed to keeping it alive. [[Applause on all benches]] Today, both France and Canada must make this language a tool for modernity, work and prosperity. As Acadian writer Antonine Maillet, the first Canadian winner of the Goncourt Award, pointed out: "A tree is more than a tree: it is trunk, root, sap, leaves, fruit, wind in branches, nests from which birds escape from the sky. It's the most beautiful image I've ever seen in the Francophonie. » A proud member of La Francophonie, Canada will continue to promote not only the French language and its communities, but also its commitment to international cooperation and to the values of peace, democracy, respect for human rights, peaceful pluralism, diversity, inclusion and shared prosperity. Here again, our partnership is essential. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] A strong friendship, capable of resisting the test of time, is a feeling that is cultivating, that requires work and, sometimes, a great will to move forward. I witnessed this when Canada and the European Union concluded the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement. On that day, we decided not to oppose trade with social and environmental progress. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] [[Same movements]] Together, we have chosen a progressive approach to our exchanges. Together, we have raised our voices for a trade that benefits as many as possible, for an agreement that creates good, well-paying jobs for the middle class for an agreement that protects the environment and reaffirms our commitment to the Paris agreement, for a partnership that reflects our values and lives up to our ambitions. After all, four centuries of trade and trade foster confidence. CETA – or CETA as you say here in good French (Sourries) – goes further than any other trade agreement in the world. It sets an example on the protection of human rights, the environment and the mobility of citizens. It preserves the right of States to legislate and regulate in the public interest, to implement policies to support their cultural industries, in addition to protecting labour standards and promoting increased environmental cooperation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the UDI-Agir group]] The CETA, which entered into force on an interim basis a few months ago, has already produced effects. In 2017, with just four months of CETA stimulus, imports into Canada from France increased by 4%. In the agriculture and agri-food sectors alone, the increase is 8 per cent compared to the previous year. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Canadian investment in France increased by 23% last year. Today, some 200 Canadian companies employ more than 28,000 people in France, while the French support 95,000 jobs in Canada. [[Laughs]] These figures are early but positive signs of the direction our partnership will take under this agreement. But for our fellow citizens, CETA goes far beyond percentages and data. For Décathlon, this agreement results in the opening of a first-ever Canadian branch this weekend, providing access to a new product line for Canadian sports and outdoor enthusiasts. For Pipolaki, a company in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, the reduction of tariffs will increase its competitiveness, so that more Canadians will wear its famous cups. For Canadians, they sell tuques. For the Confiserie du Roy René, located in Aix-en-Provence, the CETA will increase its sales with us and thus lead it to hire new employees at your home. And this week, a delegation of almost fifty companies from the innovation sector is in Paris to develop partnerships with your companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups, and on a few benches of the LR group]] All of these examples illustrate the same reality: trade, when well-coordinated, benefits as many as possible. [[Vif applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir]] Let us ask ourselves the question: if France does not ratify a free trade agreement with Canada, with which country do you imagine you can do so? CETA is only the starting point for a new era of cooperation and integration. Together, we must go even further and dare to bet on innovation, progress and the future. Our scientists, academic centres and students were among the first to recognize the immense potential of new technologies such as artificial intelligence and deep learning. As governments, we must play a leading role in encouraging their creativity, ingenuity and ideas. It is up to us to build on our fellow citizens, knowledge and science. This courageous bet is that of the Enlightenment which has enabled the countries of the world to overcome the challenges and which inspires since progress. Dear friends, the problems we face are very real. We cannot deny global warming. We cannot ignore inequalities in our societies or ignore the real challenges we face. But neither can we resign. We cannot afford to accept the world as it is. Canada has decided to be for progress. And we see our partner, our ally, our always-loving friend, France, as being, too, for. You bear the legacy of the Enlightenment whose ideas have made your country a symbol of hope for the world, from one generation to the next. To ignorance, you answered by reason. Rather than darkness, you have chosen science, debate and progress. Together, let us revive these humanistic values. [[Mrs. and Mr. the deputies and members of the Government rise and applaud]] Dear friends, this renewed partnership between France and Canada I am talking about, a partnership rooted in our values and our history, and strengthened by our common ambition, will resonate around the world. French friends, the Canadians are reaching out to you. Let us have the audacity to build together a more progressive, more diversified, greener, more inclusive, more open, more democratic world; a more free, equal and fraternal world; a world in our image.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u5	Prime Minister of Canada, on behalf of the national representation, thank you for this intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u6	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u7	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u8	The next item is the explanations of vote on behalf of the groups and the vote by public vote on the whole bill for a new railway pact (No. 764, 851, 842).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u9	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u10	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, the Minister responsible for transport, the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 February, after an analysis of the situation on rail, in particular the situation of freight in my constituency, I referred to Messrs. Pepy and Jeantet de fosseurs de la SNCF. Three months later, I confirmed my judgment, except that, in addition to the fosseurs, I was also able to identify the conductor of the hearse. Let us first turn to the deplorable conditions under which the text is examined, to the limit of legality. First of all, there is the absence of an impact assessment, which we have denounced since the examination in committee and have been recalled here in the sitting. There is also your strategy of tabling amendments in a soft way, on the weekend, to cut any debate short. If that is your concept of dialogue, I understand your relations with the social partners better. I now come to the bottom of the text. Since 1997, openness to competition has been carefully prepared, following successive railway packages with the utmost zeal. However, the French did not adhere to the fantasy of free and undistorted competition and strongly rejected this social and environmental dumping, by voting "no" in the referendum on the draft European constitution in 2005. In fact, you docilely drive the SNCF towards an industrial shipwreck, on the pretext of reducing costs allegedly too high, with the help of the expert in corporate liquidation, Mr Spinetta. However, in order to reduce costs, there are only two ways: to reduce the costs of maintaining and modernising the network, and to make workers more vulnerable. In both cases, the result is lower safety and service quality. In fact, you are unable to explain how this reform will make our trains better run. You have looped your 36 billion euros of investments, presented as unreleased. In fact, it is a smoke – a smoke of 10 billion euros. Indeed, the multi-annual contract signed in April 2017 by the State and SNCF planned €46 billion in investments. In other words, EUR 10 billion went away in a year. I salute the prowess. You are also trying to get public opinion to accept the move to a public limited company, a first step towards privatisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u12	After France Télécom, GDF and EDF, history repeats itself tirelessly. The majority refused to vote on our amendment to make the capital of the future public limited liability company inaccessible. This is a confession – and a lie from President Macron last Sunday.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u14	As far as debt is concerned, although it is known that it does not weigh anything with regard to SNCF's assets, even if there is no answer. Who benefits from the 1.5 billion euros of annual interest? For months, the ECB has been lending at negative rates: then, who is going to go into this matter?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u15	The capitalists!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u16	This debt serves you only to blackmail the status, as cynical as it is petty. None of your arguments on this famous status have convinced, either here or in the company. You lie about the famous "social backpack": nothing is insured in the long term to the railwaymen transferred to a private company that would win a contract against the SNCF. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] If there are privileged people, they're not where we believe. In 2017, the ten members of the Executive Committee won €2.5 million. This state-owned company is dying of the technocracy, of which you are a part, which has taken the power to not let go of it and privatize SNCF step by step. Mr. Macron explained to us on Sunday that Mr. Pepy had no responsibility for the company's situation. If that is the case, then he is in a fictitious job. As far as the lines of everyday life are concerned, we know very well where the path you have opened leads. As soon as the Spinetta report was published, several regional presidents expressed their desire to open up TERs to competition as soon as possible. It is in fact their only escape: with the declines in endowments and the uncompensated transfers of expenses, they are forced to look for the cheapest. In the end, everyone will only have to go happily on the roads aboard Macron buses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u17	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u18	The public rail transport service is not a burden: it is a tool for ecological planning and territorial equality. This vision involves investing heavily in our network to rehabilitate and modernize it, and reviewing taxation so that it affects the most polluting modes of transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u20	Tax exemptions for road transport cost the community €8.5 billion each year. A unified enterprise in the form of a public industrial and commercial establishment – EPIC – would be a common sense measure, which would restore air to SNCF and stop transaction costs between entities. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] We have two definitely different visions of human relations and the relationship with our environment. Our world is one of solidarity where not everything is merchandise, profit and competition; a society where public service and the reduction of inequalities are powerful drivers of social cohesion and living together. We will vote against this text and against your vision. In your world, minister, there are those who have a social backpack and those who have a golden parachute.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u21	Bravo, Mr. Prud'homme!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u22	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman, what have we learned from the parliamentary debate that preceded this solemn vote? As my colleague from La France has just recalled, we have had the right to contested orders, replaced as a matter of urgency by legislative provisions introduced by amendments of the Government, themselves filed in a fragmentary and hasty manner. However, we have learned two things – which we certainly knew, but so things are clear: on the one hand, the Government and its majority have shown a certain and claimed indifference to the parliamentary debate; On the other hand, they have shown their willingness to translate European provisions on the opening up of rail passenger transport to competition at all costs, strengthening their liberal and anti-social character. This is now your trademark, and you have again demonstrated it in the last few hours, still in the field of rail transport, with your announcement of the filialisation of rail freight, liquidated after more than ten years of opening to competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u24	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u25	In the parliamentary debate, you have, in confusion, had the greatest concerns on the substance of the subject. How high will the state take up the debt, that thirty years of government laxity have let go? Nothing has been said about this, except that taxpayers will pay, without companies being asked to do the least at this stage, even though they have, in various forms, largely benefited from this financial dependence of the SNCF group. With regard to multi-annual investments in the network, in particular the regional capillary network, you have not made any additional commitments, in particular to the regions, which will have to ensure in their territory the responsibility for closures of lines deemed unprofitable. Continuity of public service is a puzzle for you with openness to competition; You have been forced to raise this issue, Madam Minister, thanks to our interventions, even though this continuity is the cornerstone of the duties of railway workers and the rights of travellers. With regard to the price for users and the quality of service, you have chosen the register of incantations, which the daily experiences of our fellow citizens with La Poste, gas or electricity formally deny. The abolition of the status of railway workers corresponds to a purely ideological undertaking which Europe did not impose and which is only a class aggression, devoid of all social and economic efficiency, on the contrary. Thus, after several weeks, the social movement of railway workers continues, as with a renewed force your media war continues. In these circumstances, the communist component of the GDR group is supported, if still needed, in the counter-project for which it has consistently argued. We reaffirm the need for a strategist State to guarantee the monopoly of a unified public railway transport undertaking. It is necessary to restore the financial capacity of the company by means of more stringent taxation against the polluting modes of transport and the powerful employers' lobbies – especially in the road sector – that run them. We must refocus the SNCF on its core business, which is the train travel of our fellow citizens,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u27	... with a requirement of access and safety for all, and complementarity with other modes of transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u28	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u29	The SNCF network and services must be positioned as major players in a more balanced and environmentally friendly spatial planning that is close to the needs of the people of our different territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u30	It's absolutely necessary!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the FI group]] Madam Minister, today there is no conclusion to the debate that has been opened before the French, but from tomorrow, and for a long time, to be held accountable by your majority to the users and agents of the SNCF. Know that, as far as we are concerned, we leave the meter open to put the clocks back on time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u32	Mrs Laurianne Rossi, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, after two weeks of work in committee and then in public sittings, and thirty-two hours of debate in this House, it is now up to us, with ambition, courage and responsibility, to vote on this bill for a new railway pact. On behalf of my group, I would like to welcome this major and necessary reform for our public rail service, which is keeping its promises in all respects. The promise of the method, first of all – that of diagnosis, consultation and debate. Far from the passage in force or indifference, wrongly denounced on some benches,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u34	Declared to be right, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u35	...the promise of consultation has been kept, as has the promise of parliamentary debate. All the partners were interviewed and listened to, in a limited time and in the framework of more than seventy meetings of consultation with the trade unions on the various aspects of the law. Each point of agreement with the trade unions has thus been reinstated in the draft law, by way of amendment by the Government, instead of the original ordinances, leaving room for parliamentary debate and the right of amendment of the opposition. In fact, no less than 282 amendments were debated in the public sitting, 45 of which were adopted: 45 amendments by the Government, the rapporteur and members of the majority and the opposition, thus enriched this text, which brings the future of our rail transport. The second promise is that of an ambition, not to bury our public railway service, as I have just heard, but to give it all its chances and make it more efficient, more efficient and more sustainable. This reform aims to transform our public rail service in order to improve the supply and quality of service, and to give SNCF all the necessary assets for its performance and organisation in the future context of opening up to competition – a context that is not new: the bill constitutes the last brick of this opening, that of domestic passenger transport, after those of freight in 2004, and then of international transport in 2009. This openness to competition must be seen as a real opportunity to improve the quality of service and to strengthen the supply of trains, at more affordable prices for travellers. The new railway pact proposes, with courage and responsibility: a gradual opening to competition between 2019 and 2023, with secure social conditions for employee transfers; a transformation of the SNCF, of which the three public institutions will now belong to a single unified group, composed of a national company with incessible public capital – the SNCF – wholly owned by the State, and two subsidiaries – SNCF Mobilitys and SNCF Network – wholly owned by the SNCF, thus enabling a more legible, efficient and economically viable organisation; a social modernisation which calls for the cessation of recruitment to the Staff Regulations, with all the necessary guarantees for current, transferred or future employees. Thanks to this new governance, SNCF will be able to make opening up to competition a success. The amendments introduced by the Government and the rapporteur also allowed for a better association of all stakeholders, and an increase in social guarantees for railway workers, thanks in particular to the portability of lifetime employment and the special pension scheme. An amendment, no less major, also tabled by our parliamentary group, allowed employees transferred to a new operator to be automatically covered by the collective agreement of the railway branch. Finally, your amendments, ladies and gentlemen, such as the one on the monitoring committees for services, or the one on the consultation of the regions on social pricing, have made this text more balanced and more comprehensive. So this is a text, I said, that keeps all its promises. It is above all the promise of a brighter future for the train of tomorrow, a future that does not forget anyone on the dock: no user, no territory, no employee. The adoption of our new railway pact, to which I invite you, and the unprecedented investments made to renovate our network – 36 billion over ten years – will mark with a white stone the return of the railway to the heart of the mobilitys of our daily lives. As part of this review, we will not be spared any counter-truth, and no debate will have been ignored. No, this reform is not that of the privatisation of the network or of the end of the public railway service; It's just the opposite. Nor is it that of the small lines: there is no will to close them, and 1.5 billion euros of investment will be spent on them. Nor is it the case for savings, but it is the case for better use of public money spent on rail transport. We are here today to solemnly vote on this reform on the future of the train. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, two options are open to us: on the one hand, confidence in this reform, in this new pact, in this renewed future and in the pride that we wish to offer to the train, to the SNCF, to its employees, to its users; on the other, the temptation of an illusory and dangerous conservatism proposed on some of these benches, and consisting as often to do nothing and change nothing to allow another mode of transport to deteriorate which we hold so dear. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, all the conditions are now in place to make rail the major lever of our daily and tomorrow's mobility policy, at the service of our citizens and our territories, in order to be together again proud of our public rail service. It is in this sense that I invite you to vote for this new railway pact and to follow our group on the path of responsibility, ambition and progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u36	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Marie Sermier, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u37	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, what a waste! Why, Madam Minister, did you not legislate in serenity?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u38	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u39	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You had announced, on the basis of mobility, that you would first present a text of guidance proposing a vision and then an implementing text, with the reform of the SNCF. The Government has shown an amateurism that leaves millions of French on the wharf.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u40	How can we say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u41	For the Republicans, this bill, if it is not useless, is a missed opportunity to thoroughly reform our rail system, with the triple objective of facilitating the movements of the French and making them cheaper, to modernise the SNCF, a major undertaking to which our fellow citizens are attached, and to participate in the future of our country by proposing a strategic vision of land use planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u42	That is the purpose of this bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] All our territories need the train. The proposed text does not backtrack our country, but it does not move it forward either. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] First of all, we strongly denounce the methods used by the Government: the ordinances confirm the lack of consideration given to Parliament; Amendments were tabled in the middle of Easter weekend, following parallel negotiations with the trade unions. This method avoids any impact assessment and prevents any debate in committee. I would add that the President of the Republic announced Sunday evening, during a calamite television show,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u45	... that SNCF's debt would be partially recovered by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u46	And despite all this, you will vote in favour!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u47	He thus answered the question that Members of Parliament had asked throughout last week, but had not received an answer from the Minister. Unfortunately, the President forgets to give details of the operation: what share of the debt will be recovered? How? Above all, how can we ensure that SNCF, which has become a public limited company with public capital, will no longer produce a deficit of EUR 1.5 billion per year?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u48	It's the big blur with Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u49	On the method, the Government has everything wrong: trade unions are robbed; the strike is massive; The population is taken hostage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u50	And that's why you're going to vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u51	It's well known, it's easy to strike!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u52	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM, MODEM, FI and GDR groups. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We would have had many arguments not to vote for this text, but the Republicans are never in a political position.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u53	Be careful what you say, Wauquiez will raise your shoulder straps!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u54	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] They only have France's interest as a compass. Thus, members of the Republicans group decided, in their vast majority – because they are not corporalized and will vote as they please – to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u55	That's the Borne-Wauquiez law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u56	Why vote for this text? Because it is the continuation of a movement to open up the rail market initiated in the 1990s and supported by all successive governments. In addition, the competition for freight and then international passenger transport, which it organises, is as much progress as is necessary. However, the bill is far from perfect: the status of the railway is not removed. It will be extinguished very gradually, in favour of a new status, which itself is very protective. The reform of the special railway system is referred to the future pension law. SNCF Network and SNCF Mobilitys will remain bound by a parent company. Wisdom and efficiency should have led to the independence of the infrastructure manager: this is the only way to ensure fair competition between operators. Finally, the Government refused to include in the law any provision guaranteeing the maintenance of small lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u57	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u58	More broadly, it refuses to affirm the importance of the train for irrigation in rural areas. We are concerned about the Minister's ambiguous statements on capillaries and the adoption of an amendment to request a report on the state of the lines. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, this text does not go very far, but it is in line with the logic that has enabled us to build the foundations of market opening for decades, guaranteeing the continuity of SNCF and ensuring the quality of traffic for all French people. It remains silent on many subjects, in particular the major projects of national or even European scope, which will have to be addressed at a later stage. Minister, if we agree to vote on this bill, it is by asking you to be more constructive in considering the mobility orientation bill, which will have to be more ambitious for our country's future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u59	On the bill as a whole, the vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mrs Florence Lasserre-David, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in a few minutes on the bill for a new railway pact. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has understood that to vote on this text does not mean to put an end to the public service of French rail transport. We know that the text does not provide for the closure of small lines, and we understand that, through it, SNCF was not privatized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u61	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u62	The text simply aims to ensure the sustainability of SNCF as a public undertaking, to give it the means to be fully competitive and to improve the service provided to users.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u63	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u64	Indeed, the debate has made it possible to repeat on many occasions that the text does not lead to privatisation. If the statute of the SNCF is to be changed so that it can become a national company structure again, as was the case before 1982, the capital of these companies will be 100 % public and non-transferable. To those who argue that this is a first step towards privatization and that it would not require any change to the law, we recall that there is no first step in this direction in the text that is at the heart of our discussions today. The text does not provide for privatisation, nor does the previous rail reforms open up such a possibility for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u65	What about the freight branch?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u66	The opening up to competition, which is the real issue of this bill, has been decided at European level and, I would say here, with the support of France, because the Brussels decisions are also those of France. Opening up to competition must therefore enable the rail supply to be strengthened and the quality of service to be improved. That is what has happened in all the European countries that have taken this path, long before us. The reform of the group's governance will enable SNCF to be able to perform in a competitive environment, a performance that it has already demonstrated by achieving excellent results in the field of foreign travel services. To those who oppose us the example of opening up French freight to competition, I would like to remind you that during our debates, the minister reminded us of the external determinants, such as the economic and financial crisis or the fall in fuel prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u67	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u68	Again, openness to competition is the objective of the bill. However, the opening of the French rail market must be prepared and accompanied. Not supporting this bill is taking the risk of a failure of the transition; Not supporting this bill is not giving SNCF the means to succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u70	We welcome the announcement by the President of the Republic a few days ago of an increase in investment on the network, amounting to EUR 10 million per day for ten years. The terms and conditions for financing this investment effort will be clarified and discussed during the review of the future infrastructure programming bill. Our group will ensure that this commitment, which will have to be honoured by keeping pace with the consolidation of our public finances. Finally, we welcome the method used by the Government to review the text. The parliamentary debate has indeed taken place in the Chamber. To those who would be tempted to say the opposite, we recall that we spent 24 hours in the meeting, and that in addition to the four hours devoted to the general discussion, statements on the various articles gave rise to 104 statements. As for the procedure to provide for authorisations which have been replaced by legal arrangements in the course of consultation with the social partners, it allows for compliance with the time constraints – the text to enter into force before the end of 2019 – while allowing further discussions with the social partners. This method will have made it possible to enrich the text we are voting today with a timetable that takes account of the constraints of the regions, and above all to include in the law the guarantee of the portability of the rights of railway workers in the event of a change of railway operator. Continued debate in the Senate will, we hope, allow us to continue to deepen the reforms necessary for the operation of the SNCF, the support of railway operators and the improvement of the quality of service for users. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] By this law, SNCF will remain the major French company to which we are all attached. It will be better equipped, and therefore more agile, to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. All its employees, whether in status or not, will be protected, and their mobility will be facilitated. The French will regain the taste of the train and the rail will take a whole new place in their mobility – that of the daily life of each of us and that of the long journeys. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u71	The next speaker is Mr Guy Bricout, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u72	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, more than 15 years ago, the European Union laid the foundations for opening up rail to competition. This openness will stimulate SNCF. But this one needs it. It is an old 80-year-old public company, which should make our country proud. Yet, just 55% of French people are satisfied with this – and this figure is steadily decreasing. SNCF has made significant transformation efforts, but today it is at a turning point in its history. If it fails to modernize and re-examine its role to become an actor in mobility, it runs the risk of disappearing. Even if some pretend to be surprised, no one is actually surprised. We need to transpose a European railway package that has been negotiated for many years. All our work is to ensure that liberalization takes place in the best possible conditions: that it is fair for employees, beneficial for users and balanced for the territory. It was these considerations that guided us in our consideration of the text. The discussions were rich; They haven't been messed up. To discover, last month, an initial bill made up of 99% of the powers to legislate by ordinances had a frustrating side for us, but, as soon as we examined it in committee, we found, together with my colleague Bertrand Pancher, that the Government had fulfilled its commitment to replace the most political ordinances with inscriptions directly in the law. Since the beginning of April, many users have been familiar with the galley to circulate on strike days. Meanwhile, we have validated a timetable for opening up to competition as fast as it is sufficiently progressive. Some people shake fears by talking about privatization. Meanwhile, we have included in the law the 100% public nature of the SNCF group. "The capital of the national company SNCF is wholly owned by the State": it is written black and white in the law. Some have focused on status. Meanwhile, we have validated the portability of the guarantees currently available to railway workers as well as a protective collective agreement for future employees. The members of our group will continue to be vigilant in order to avoid any distortion of competition and any disproportionately different treatment between railway undertakings. There is no deletion of the status.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u73	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u74	It is maintained for railway workers currently on duty. This is a fair measure that does not call into question the commitments made when they are hired. For new hires, relying on collective bargaining is a way of trusting unions. In addition to being an opportunity for SNCF, this reform can really be one for spatial planning. The possibility of modulating railway tolls in order to ensure equalization between services, to favour the least profitable lines and to irrigate the territories is a first track, now enshrined in the law. It will have to be implemented as widely as possible; The State will need to make high-level commitments to the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u76	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] The goal is simple: to ensure that the train is not just a way of connecting big cities. We fully trust the territories to organize the best public transport service...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u77	With what money?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u78	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] ...as long as they have the means to do so. However, we remain hungry about SNCF's colossal debt, whose members of our group would have preferred the immediate recovery in order to give the company oxygen. The remarks made by the President of the Republic on this point are – finally! – a commitment. Even if the recovery of the debt is mechanical because of the transformation of SNCF into a public limited company, a precise timetable and clear figures are missing – we hope to have them very soon. This debt will become the debt of the state: you are walking on eggs with regard to taxpayers and our European commitments, Madam Minister. As far as the management of SNCF Réseau's heritage is concerned, we have not mentioned it so far. It is probably another way of reducing debt and preventing it from re-establishing itself in the future. The bill is neither a revolution nor a surprise: it is an indispensable development.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u79	It's a text on the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u80	You dreamed, Macron did!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u81	Macron is neither left nor left!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u82	The status quo of which some dream is dangerous for SNCF and its employees. Priority should be given to the maintenance and renewal of infrastructure and to the complementarity of modes of transport such as TGV and TER lines. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are consistent with our position for many years. We will therefore vote in favour of the bill. More than ever, therefore, we have no right to fail.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u83	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Bouillon, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u84	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, each has his own reading grid. Ours is based on three words: text, context and pretext – evaluating the text, not losing sight of the context and repelling the pretext.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u86	The text is composed of two parts. It first involves what Europe is asking for, i.e. the transposition of European directives and regulations adopted in 2016, and completes the process of opening up to competition initiated in the 1990s. You are doing this, Madam Minister, according to a model we know: that of the organization of urban public transport in our territories. It then includes what Europe is not asking for. Europe is not asking for an end to the status of railway workers. Nor does Europe demand the transformation of SNCF into a public limited liability company. Of course, you are not privatizing SNCF today, but you are making it privatisable tomorrow. This is, in a way, a presumption of privatization. The context is first of all that of debt. It comes from afar and is now an important issue because of the openness to competition. It is not a question of why there is a debt – unless the decisions taken in 2003 and 2009 for high-speed lines are called into question. Rather, the question is whether the recovery of the debt by the State imposed by opening up to competition will allow SNCF – as has happened in Germany – to devote resources to the maintenance and modernisation of the existing network, whose deplorable state is causing slowdowns and delays. While less money is being spent on debt repayment, more money is being spent on the existing network. The debates we have had in this House, as well as the comments made on all the benches, have made it possible to put the issue of debt on the table. Rendez-vous is taken for 2020. The context is also the growing concern about the fate of the small lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u87	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u88	For years, there has been a growing sense that these 9,000 kilometres of small lines are probably in Bercy's collimator, who sees only unprofitable lines, forgetting in fact the question of spatial planning as the question of equality between territories. Derechef, appointment is made for later – 2019 or 2020, we are told. I'll finally mention the pretext. I am among those who believe that we could have avoided the strike situation we know, provided that we do not brandish the status of railway workers as a red cloth. On this subject, we have the feeling that the totem has taken precedence over the resolution of problems, which is a shame, because we could have avoided the social conflict that we are experiencing. In the end, the minister, this reform is probably a holed reform: it has a lot of holes, so a lot of blur, and probably a lot of wolves as well. It is also a "later" reform:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u89	It is above all a reform that you should have done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u90	... the global vision of mobility is for later; the question of debt is for later; The question of the future of small lines is also for later.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u91	While she's interested in the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u92	Government procrastination!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u93	It's finally a risk reform. By turning SNCF into a public limited company, you place a risk on the network – which is the French heritage – by putting it at the mercy of private interests. In doing so, you are threatening this heritage of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u94	You're mixing everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u95	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and LR groups]] A Canadian Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, said – on April 17, 2018 at 3:15 p.m., in front of us – that "change" is not always synonymous with "progress".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u96	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u97	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] Here's the demonstration! That is why we will not vote for this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u98	As everyone returns, I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have devoted 24 hours and four minutes of debate to this text and considered 282 amendments, of which 45 were adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u99	None of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u100	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u101	Live the railwaymen! Long live the strike!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u102	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u103	[[The sitting was suspended at seventeen and resumed at seventeen, with Annie Genevard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u104	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u105	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration (No. 714, 857, 815, 821).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u106	Last night, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u107	Madam President, the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the Chairperson of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, the Rapporteur, the Chairperson and Rapporteur for opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Rapporteur for opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, this bill cannot leave insensitive, since it relates to such a vast and complex challenge that no one here can claim to have absolute truth, that no one can claim that some would be unitedly right while others would be completely wrong – whatever the political responsibilities and sensitivities of the speakers. This challenge is not only that of immigration, but also that of integration, not to mention the right of asylum; It is easy to understand why these three major issues are addressed in a single text. Unfortunately, it is not likely that all the provisions that will be discussed in the next few days will lead to consensus, or even compromise, as opinions and proposals on these issues may diverge from one panel to another, sometimes within the same group. Having said that, I am sure that we will all be able to agree at least on the situation in France and the objectives of this text to improve this situation. In essence, the discussions will focus on the measures proposed by the Government to achieve these objectives. In terms of immigration, first of all, we will all agree that France, and more generally Europe, have been facing unprecedented migration crises since 2015. This pressure obliges us to take specific measures while ensuring respect for our values and our historical tradition of welcoming foreigners under international protection. The situation of asylum seekers, whose numbers are increasing significantly in France, is reflected in the 100,000 applications filed in 2017, which is 50% more than in 2012. The situation is all the more tense as our treatment procedures and accommodation arrangements are already saturated, particularly in the Alpes-Maritimes, Pas-de-Calais and Île-de-France, where illegal camps are formed, to the detriment of all – migrants, residents and public authorities. Finally, we must address the issue of the integration of foreigners into our country. We are all aware that their linguistic, economic and social integration is particularly inadequate. Once we have the record, which we can all hope for, we need to look at the objectives of this bill. They are vast: to better combat illegal immigration, it is necessary on the one hand to guarantee the effectiveness of removals and to equip the law enforcement agencies with new investigative capabilities, and on the other hand to improve and modernise the law of foreigners. To improve the processing of asylum applications and reception conditions, it is necessary to secure the right of applicants to stay, but also to reorganise and speed up procedures. Finally, in order to improve the integration of foreigners, we need to strengthen France's attractiveness to attract skills and talents and to review reception conditions. On all these points, although there may be differences, there are above all objective and responsible observations on which we can join. The heart of the debate that will mobilize us this week, I repeat, is the measures proposed to achieve these objectives. The examination of the text in committee has shown this: almost 28 hours of debate and a thousand amendments have made it possible, although not enough, to improve these measures. I am thinking in particular of the additional guarantees granted to asylum seekers when processing their applications, the modification of the duration of administrative detention, the inclusion in the text of the challenges arising from climate migration, and the better consideration of the situation of vulnerable persons. That is why the examination in session will be decisive, and the IDU, Action and Independent Group will take its full part. We propose that you reduce the time limit by which an asylum-seeker, pending an answer, may be allowed to work, that the minimum conditions for the reception of asylum-seekers include the learning of the French language, or that you facilitate the acquisition of nationality for foreigners who have been resident in our country for more than ten years. We will also propose that you take into account, before a decision on an asylum application, any convictions or information from third-country intelligence services, allow the mobile electronic surveillance of certain aliens under house arrest pending the execution of an expulsion order, or strengthen sanctions for non-compliance with obligations such as periodic presentation to the police or the handing over of the passport. These proposals seem to us to be balanced because, basically, if we were to retain only one issue in this bill, it is that of seeking a balance between humanism and responsibility, between laxism and repression – research that is not new, since if we have to deplore some legislative inflation on immigration, with as many as seventeen texts in twenty years, it is simply because situations are changing and this balance is regularly threatened. The IUD, Action and Independent Group believes that we must welcome all those who flee the war and risk their lives, for that is the humanism that is the honour of our country and of our continent. We also believe that economic migrants must be welcomed according to our capacity for reception and integration – this is the responsibility we cannot avoid. That is our understanding of this balance. Therefore, if we agree with the spirit of this bill, which seeks to improve the conditions for the integration and reception of foreigners in a regular situation while strengthening the fight against irregular immigration, we regret the lack of a long-term strategic vision. It is true that this legislative vehicle is not suitable for establishing a comprehensive and ambitious strategy, since it is a matter of providing short-term and non-structural responses. However, I solemnly invite the Government – and each of our colleagues – to carry out this reflection: it is essential and urgent to do so. For France and Europe, it is a matter of working to ensure that those who flee their countries of origin no longer have to do so. I can already hear some saying that this is a wish which the poor effectiveness of development aid has shown to be utopian. We will reply that if, in the past, we have not been able to face a challenge that is only growing and of which we see only the first fruits, the solution is certainly not in defeatism and cynicism. Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, let us bear in mind that future climate migrations will certainly be much more massive than all those related to wars and famines that history has already known. Let us not forget that the African continent, with only the Mediterranean and a few kilometres separating us in places, will see its population double by 2050. Let us know that if we are not able to find a diplomatic solution to instability at the gates of Europe, military confrontation will unfortunately be the only answer. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the IUD, Act and Independents Group welcomes this bill, which provides a targeted response to the current difficulties – provided, however, that the debates in the session improve the overall balance – but calls for the construction of a comprehensive and strategic response to challenges that will only increase and intensify.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u108	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u109	Madam President, the Minister of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill was announced and expected for more than a year, but its content differs from what was seen in the statements before the presidential election. In January 2017, a candidate congratulated Chancellor Angela Merkel for "saving our common values" by hosting a large number of refugees. It is true that in 2016 our country granted its humanitarian protection to 29,000 refugees while our neighbour was benefiting more than 400,000 migrants. In May 2017, the same candidate indicated, in response to CIMADE – the Inter-Movements Committee for Evacuees – that "unlike some people say, we are not currently facing a wave of immigration."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u110	Listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u111	Finally, this candidate, who became President of the Republic, did not derogate from a practice that had become usual for fifteen years, namely, to ask the Government to prepare a new immigration law. Since 2003, every two years, a law has been passed, bringing the total to seven, not counting the Act. Of course, the content of the bill is surprising, as it is in turn reversed in relation to previous statements. We are many to have recalled in the debates of recent weeks how things are going in real life. We remain contemplating because the practical problems are not taken into account here. Once the text has been adopted, it will certainly be possible to say, on the basis of the figures, that administrative detentions are more numerous and longer, that litigation will be less and that the potential rights granted are limited. But will this change the reality and nature of the problems? Nothing's less sure. Will we be more effective? It's far from safe. The facts are stubborn: on average, less than one in two persons in detention leave the territory; Almost two thirds of the distance from the overseas region – 61% – and just over one third of the distance from the metropolitan area – 39% – are from overseas; Only 10% of the transfer procedures under the so-called "Dublin" European Regulation are successful. The causes are, to a large extent, identified: failure to implement the measures of extension imposed; lack of places in administrative detention centres; Uncertain or difficult to remove nationality; failure to issue consular passes by the authorities of third States. At the same time, the appropriations for the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission decreased by 1.4% over the period 2018-2020, under the Public Finance Programming Act. So you proclaim without treating. Let us return to the parliamentary debate, after thirty-five hours spent in the Law Committee. I would like to draw your attention, on the one hand, to a significant provision of our exchanges and, on the other, to an amendment that we are defending. Article 5 seeks to reform the procedure for examining applications for asylum before the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons (OFPRA) in order to reduce the delays in the investigation and to deter applications "which may appear to be alien to a need for protection". It reduces from 120 to 90 days the current time limit as soon as an alien enters the territory beyond which the investigation procedure will be accelerated. As the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe points out, the linguistic and material obstacles faced by asylum seekers upon arrival in the territory, the need for legal and social support to prepare their applications and the difficulties encountered by some of them in accessing asylum-seekers' reception platforms or reception and situation centres make this time-limit difficult. In committee, the argument that was put forward was to speed up the examination of applications. However, 40% of cases are already dealt with under the accelerated procedure. The only expected effect of this measure will be to significantly increase this percentage and to make the accelerated procedure a common law procedure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u113	... but the deadlines will be shorter, especially for the preparation of the application file, and the procedure will offer less guarantees since the decision will be taken by a single person, where collegiality is the rule in the normal procedure. I come to the amendment that the New Left Group is defending with regard to the crime of solidarity. It aims to broaden the scope of existing immunities by preventing prosecution once the act of solidarity has been carried out not for profit. Through these two examples, I wanted to show how this project is contrary to France's philosophy. Costa-Gavras, a great filmmaker, publishes his memoirs these days. He, like me, both foreigners, are grateful to Voltaire's country for giving us a chance, for giving us the opportunity to go where it was impossible for us to go. This is especially true when tragedies are taking place in many countries that put people on the road without goal or end.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u114	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u115	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] I conclude, Madam President. This bill weakens the rights of vulnerable people. It casts doubt on the message of our country, or rather it gives us to see the double face of a Republic that seems forward-looking but acts backwards. We hope, Minister of State, that you will pay more attention to our proposals in order to move the Republic forward differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u116	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u117	To Mohamed Abdellah Hacem, Pornan Traoré, Adam Saleh Omar, Sadio Cissogho, Babacar Sali, Younusa Sow, you who listen to our debates at this moment, to your companions and companions of road, exile and struggles, to all of you, women, men, children, our brothers and sisters in humanity who have gone through so many trials, so much suffering, so much violence in search of a refuge, I address, on behalf of La France insoumise, our sincere and solidarity greetings. At this moment, we do not forget those others, so many others, too many others, who have failed, at the end of their terrible journey, to find the help and protection to which every human being is universally entitled. It is also their memory that obliges us today, in our word and in our actions, to the greatest humility, to the greatest dignity and to the greatest respect. Madam President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a simple question: what part of history do you want to belong to? In his speech to the Law Commission, the Minister of State chained the infamys and counter-truths to justify the political organization of the violence he calls for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u118	It's a little excessive!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u119	He explained to us, in an apologetic exercise whose rhetoric leaves pantois, that in order not to see the far right coming to power, it was better to do the dirty work itself. In particular, the word "submersion" has been used. The day before yesterday, the President of the Republic defended and echoed these words, again verbalizing his dangerous obsession with the "bead of African women". [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Your majority thus opened the sewer valves in which the hatemakers, like MM, were complacently engulfed. Guillaume Larrivé and Éric Ciotti gave us the lamentable example last night.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u120	You're the one who's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u121	This small, lancinating music of the invasion, of this wave that would come across France, is simply a matter of political manipulation, among other nauseous processes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u122	It's the lepenization of minds!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u123	So let me recall a few facts here. First, and contrary to the ideas received, there has been no drastic increase in global migration in recent decades. On average, they represent only around 3 per cent of the world's population. Secondly, the majority of global migration is interregional. Africans and Africans, for example – to name but themselves, who seem to be so obsessed with you, from one right to another – migrate primarily to Africa. The 65.6 million uprooted people around the world are first welcomed in neighbouring countries and in what is known as the "Great South": Ethiopia, Uganda, Lebanon, Pakistan, Turkey. Only 17% of them find refuge in Europe. Finally, migration is an intrinsically human fact. It is the causes of forced migration – be it political, economic or climatic – that present a problem, not the people forced to leave their families and countries, who have been torn out of their lives. But rather than dealing intelligently, in a humanist and reasoned way, with these problems, your bill makes the choice of questionable amalgam and technocratic brutality: amalgam, by deciding to mix into the same text right of asylum and migration policy, as if the first was a variable of adjustment of the second; brutality, by planing all procedures that guarantee respect for fundamental rights. This is a baton bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u124	You know what the truncheon is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u125	...that to a crisis, not migration, but of the policy of welcoming migrants and migrants to Europe, responds with a policy of sorting and fear. In this counterfactual ideological race, this government is unfortunately not isolated. In France, since the 1980s, migratory paranoia gradually infuses political discourses to lead to today's debate, in which the extreme right decides the terms of the discussion and becomes the standard to be measured. Many Western countries know this moral drift: the Europe fortress of the FPÖ in Austria, Viktor Orban in Hungary, AFD and CSU in Germany, UKIP and Theresa May in Great Britain, PIS in Poland, but also Donald Trump's United States.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u126	And Putin in Russia!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u127	This bill is part of that wave, which makes migration, and therefore migrants and migrants, the problem. Everywhere the abuse of people, which we see drowning on our television screens, computers or mobile phones, and whose tents are lacerated, the bodies are beaten. These policies lead to the death of thousands of people. Their number has been estimated at 40,000 since the 1990s, but in reality it is not known exactly how many bodies are littering the Mediterranean bottoms or buried under the dunes of the Sahel and Sahara deserts. It is not known how many families have lost one or one of their own families without news for too long. We do not know the exact human cost of your European fortress, but we know that migration has never been so deadly. This disaster is the result of the policies that have been going on for decades: these laws which prevent the granting of visas and oblige people to take deadly roads; policies that outsource borders to territories such as Libya or Turkey. They even regulate all intimate bonds. In your bill, paternity ties are called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u128	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u129	You want to lengthen, without any rational basis, the length of detention, in the name of public order. You place children in detention centres, in the name of public order. In the name of public order, you let it die.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u130	What a bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u131	Karim Ibrahim, a 31-year-old refugee afflicted by trauma, died on an air vent in the Chapel, Paris, on 8 February 2018; Malik Nurulain, says Nour, an isolated minor left without the psychological follow-up he urgently needed, died in Paris on 14 February; Beauty, whose family name is unknown, pregnant, sick, who wanted to join her sister for the end of her pregnancy, and refused to leave her husband, was taken back to Italy by the French gendarmerie in the middle of the night, when she had difficulty breathing because of a lymphoma, and died in March. Your bill is going to dig this macabre trail. However, this political blindness, which has led us for forty years in a way that has no way out, is not without alternatives. We will formulate a number of them during this debate on the basis of the proposals of our group, "For a humanist, solidarity, reasoned and realistic migration policy": concerted international and European migration management, suspension and renegotiation of the Dublin regulations and the agreements of the Touquet, unconditional reception respecting the rights of migrants and migrants, creation of new statutes of climate and humanitarian distress to respond to contemporary challenges, decriminalisation of the irregular stay, regularisation – yes – of undocumented workers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u133	... access by all to the learning of our language. France is unsubstantiated and defends a reasoned and realistic policy because humanist and solidarity, a policy that is based on what not only shapes our Republic but, more deeply, the foundation of a society. Our country is a mixture of people of diverse origins who make it the strength and wealth. It remains because we politically choose to form a community and move forward together. Only this can build a real migration policy by and for the people. The rest, like this bill, are only dangerous tools designed to reduce common struggles against inequalities and injustices. In essence, this bill – and perhaps its greatest philosophical inconsistency – does little to honour the history of our country, that of a people who, in 1793, said: "Resistance to oppression is the consequence of other human rights"; who, in 1946, protected the fighters and fighters of freedom, the people of Briançon, Calais, de la Chapelle, this people of the more than 470 associations who are wind up against your bill, Minister of State, this people who welcome those who the state leaves on the street, this people who are not fooled by your demagogic postures because they know that their humanity is intimately linked to that of others. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, on the words of the German poet May Ayim: "I will go/another step further/to the outermost part of the peripheries/where my sisters are and my brothers are standing/where our FREEDOM starts/I will take another step, always one step more/and I will return/when I want, if I want/without bounds and shame. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I ask you again, ladies and gentlemen, what chapter of history do you want to belong to?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u134	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u135	Madam President, the Minister of State, the Minister of the Interior, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, my remarks will be summed up in four points. The first concerns an element of language dear to the majority, which tends to affirm that all the policies put in place for a year correspond to the commitments of candidate Emmanuel Macron. In the present case, however, that is not correct. The text that you are defending, Mr Minister of State, contradicts not only the candidate's remarks, but also those of President Emmanuel Macron, who, in June 2017, before the European Council, committed himself to ensuring that France better and more shouldered its responsibilities with regard to the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u136	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u137	That's what he does!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u138	On the substance, and this is my second point – which agrees with the advice of the Council of State – this bill is unnecessary. For several years, our country has been accumulating laws, one hunting the other, without the time required for its execution and evaluation ever being given.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u139	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u140	What is the purpose of this frenzy, except each time, for each government, to make purely and exclusively communicational laws? This legislative incontinence saturates public debate on the same subject by flattering fears and encouraging attitudes of retreat. All over Europe, however, these policies of sorcerer apprentices have strengthened the far right. We therefore warn the Government and the majority about this temptation to legislate permanently without ever teaching the pedagogy of humanism – which is the tradition of our country – nor ever seek efficiency in resolving the tragedies we experience in many parts of our territory. My third point concerns our disagreement on the very title of the bill, which combines the issue of asylum with that of immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, asylum is a fundamental right that is subject to obligations linked to international conventions that we cannot derogate from.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u142	The management of migration flows is another matter, which depends on the legislation of each country. It therefore belongs to a completely different register and the confusion that you are introducing here is extremely dangerous to us: it incites a part of our fellow citizens to turn away from a tradition of reception which, in addition to being a fundamental right, is a trait of the identity of our country and its history and an obligation deriving from the treaties that we have signed, beginning with the Geneva Convention. My fourth point is to underline the important imbalance which characterizes this text: the reduction of rights and the strengthening of law enforcement mechanisms. This obvious imbalance, which is spread in the name of efficiency, does not deceive the actors on the ground and, moreover, makes unanimity against it. Associations, magistrates and lawyers stand up against this text, as well as administrative agents such as those of the National Court of Asylum – the CNDA – or OFPRA, familiar with the subject, who also reject the choices chosen by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u143	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u144	Such unanimity should appeal to you: there is never a good law against the advice of those responsible for its implementation. In addition, how can we believe in its effectiveness when this bill ignores the resources allocated to the reception of migrants when, in many prefectures – like the Seine-Saint-Denis, which I know well – the crisis of reception is already at its peak? I would like to highlight another very regrettable impasse in this text. Thousands of illegal foreigners live here, work here, school their children here, but their situation strengthens at their expense a black economy, illegal work and the underground economy – such as housing, with sleep merchants who enrich themselves indignantly. It would therefore be good, so it would be effective and humane to get out of hypocrisy by deciding a regularization, as it was done in the near past without our country ever being confronted with the fantasies of the air appeal, either in 1999 during a massive regularization, or in 2004 for a family regularization. I therefore solemnly ask you: allow thousands of invisibles to have a legal existence, to have access to the rights and duties of our Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] In conclusion, the Communist Members, as you have understood, are strongly opposed to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u145	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u146	Madam President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, of the electoral deadline in government policy, the question of migration has, over the years, become, as we know, central to the public debate. Thus, Mr. Minister of State, before the examination of your text and like many of my colleagues in the majority, I immediately took up the task by multiplying hearings and field visits in prefecture, reception platforms, accommodation centres, courses in French as a foreign language, asylum examination interviews, court hearings, detention centres or abroad, with you, Mr. Minister of State, in one of the source countries: Albania. At the end of this work, I have a strong, personal conviction: in twenty years, our country has created despite it a machine accumulating absurdities and feeding on postures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u147	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u148	Despite – I hope and believe – the will of many in this Chamber, this machine is indeed there and, in a way, it is running at full speed. The victims are numerous and numerous. The foreigners, first of all, who suffer from the lack of administrative clarity, the lack of courage to welcome and integrate, the lack of courage to distance themselves, the lack of courage not to want to make any choice because of discourse which, by constantly opposing the welcome of all to the reception of none, leaves tens of thousands of people in uncertainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u149	What about the lack of resources in the prefectures?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u150	The associations, then, who live as closely as possible the situations of the people they accompany, but also the state services and our law enforcement forces, who, because of contradictory feelings – as reflected in the law – have to face a system of extreme complexity leading to despair those who have to implement it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, this is the case of the whole society, some of which, here too, play themselves with simplistic discourses: they are always the same, they change their faces and sometimes even their names, but on this subject, you will find that there is always a moralizer, a paragon of virtue that aspires to you with a generosity that he is not able to assume and then, in front of him, there is also and always the one who shouts to the wolf, threatens with phantasmatic prophecies and diverts our heroes sadly and odiously, from Jeanne d'Arc to de Gaulle sometimes. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It has become for the moralizer and the manipulator a terribly juicy business fund that they maintain him together, very complicit, giving magnificently the replica of proposals that they know perfectly unrealistic but very media.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u151	What you say is shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u152	Your position isn't media, maybe? Go tell that to Jacques Toubon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u153	So what do we do when the number of asylum applications increases every year in our country – up to 100,000 last year? What should be done when the situation of these tens of thousands of people – some of them persecuted – is examined in fourteen months of unbearable expectation? What should be done when the State services complain about administrative burdens that prevent them from receiving or moving away?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u154	Hire!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u155	Give more money!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u156	What can be done when the public debate is like a short-cut pot that would have been left on the fire for too long?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u157	Lower the pressure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u158	You could have done nothing, Minister of State. On the contrary, you have made the courageous choice of wanting to divide the time limit for examining the asylum application by two so that the situation of those who are seeking protection can be clarified in six months; You have made the choice to provide for an extension of the pluriannuality of certain titles to avoid endless queues, to allow a sibling not to be divided when one of its members is protected by France, to give tools to our services that allow them to face exceptional but real situations, such as dilatory maneuvers. To govern is to choose and that is what you are doing – even if it may have cost you personally, Minister of State – by proposing today a bill that is based on both firmness and humanity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u159	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u160	...as our debates will demonstrate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u161	We'll have debates, for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u162	Without providing any means!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u163	Today, with your text, you are proposing that we take concrete action at the national level. Of course, we're with you. Tomorrow, thanks to your work with the members of the Government and under the authority of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, we will have to build a harmonized diplomatic and European policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u164	There's work to do...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u165	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On this issue, we face at least as much a migrant crisis as a crisis in Europe. Again, we'll be by your side.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u166	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u167	Madam President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, our borders are sacred. They define what we are, they allow us to "do body" – said Régis Debray – they are the membranes that filter, regulate, breathe, exchange, maintain our social cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u168	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u169	To bring them down, we risk only one thing: that walls are built within us, breaking the national community into multiple communitarianisms that provide troubles to public order and, at worst, civil wars.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u170	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u171	At the beginning of the twenty-first century, abolishing borders or building airtight walls are the two perils that lie ahead, here and elsewhere. Let us not take the risk of "losing ourselves by segregation murated in the individual, or by dilution in the universal," said Aimé Césaire, whose wisdom is about this April 17, the tenth anniversary of his disappearance. It is in the way we define and manage our borders that this bill deals with. In our view, the doors must be wide open when it comes to political asylum. It's about our dignity. Our tradition must be restored because the massive misuse of asylum procedures challenges us. Indeed, the permanent enlargement of the area of apprehension of asylum only leads to its dilution in the great maelström of individual rights and, ultimately, in a far-reaching bureaucratisation. This bill is a management bill, let us say, but it does not provide a decisive solution to restore the exercise of a right of asylum worthy of our moral requirement, because it does not dispel the confusion between what is about asylum, on the one hand, and people's choices of life, on the other. The same applies to integration, which, given the magnitude of the challenges that characterize it, cannot be dealt with in a few sections of an ordinary bill. With regard to immigration, without wanting, Minister of State, to minimize your motivation and your efforts, which we have seen in the committee of laws that they were not always in vain, let me tell you that the passage of your bill will call for others. Indeed, the migration challenges are ahead of us. In this respect, we can already see what is on the horizon, in France and at the external borders of the European Union, in particular in Mayotte and Guyana. In Mayotte, we're submerged. We have about a third of French, a third of regular Comorians and a third of illegal immigrants. Of the children born in Mayotte, 74% are foreign mothers. The state is failing everywhere: in its educational policy, as in its health, safety and spatial planning policies. The French of Mayotte are already foreigners at home and, after seeing their freedom reduced by insecurity, they are condemned to remain ad vitam aeternam left them-for-account of Republican equality. This explains Mayotte's current and profound crisis. Africa, Minister of State, now has 1.2 billion inhabitants, and it will have twice the population tomorrow. Migration pressure will therefore increase. If France is unable to cope with the migratory pressure of less than 1 million Comoriens towards Mayotte, while the two islands are separated by only 70 kilometres of open sea, how could Europe, tomorrow, cope with the migratory pressure of 2.5 billion people, over thousands of kilometres of coast, and when the distance between the two continents is only 14 kilometres to Gibraltar and 70 kilometres to the Italian territory of Pantelleria? Minister of State, Mayotte is a test for France and Europe, because we see what could happen in metropolitan France. Mayotte's situation is the result of a migration policy rendered inefficient by lack of will, blindness, angelism and lack of means and which has also suffered, since 2012, from the development of an autoimmune disease – I mean the weakening of our defences by a diplomatic apparatus that clearly turns against us, at least in Mayotte. Mayotte is indeed a test for France and for Europe, a window on a possible future, for better or for worse. That is why, Minister of State, I ask you to enrich your project by adapting it to the situation in Mayotte. Give the State and justice innovative solutions to control migratory flows! These solutions lie in the implementation of the right of adaptation which is recognized to us by article 73 of the Constitution. I will therefore propose a number of amendments, co-signed by colleagues from various political groups, including the majority, to amend the Penal Code, the Civil Code and the Code on the entry and residence of foreigners and the right of asylum. They concern: the application to Mayotte of certain criminal provisions already in force in metropolitan France; the application of the ordinary law by the abolition of emergency residence permits issued in Mayotte, which condemn the holders to station there; the fight against the massive misuse of nationality law and family reunification in Mayotte; the distance, finally, from troublemakers to public order. I hope, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, that you will examine these proposals with the firm will to help solve the difficulties of the poorest department in France. Accept Mayotte's constitutional right to adapt and experiment. Your votes will be seen as a genuine test of sincerity with regard to the commitments made by the Government towards our compatriots in Mayotte. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LR Group and among the non-attached Members]] Let me conclude in Mayotte's French: "Kukuyi zidjeni kaliyihe mjini hawatru", which means: "Everyone must be in his place. Let us remain masters of our borders, this is the best way to honour our duty of humanity and international solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u172	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u173	Madam President, the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the Chair of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after the election of Emmanuel Macron to the far right, how much would I have liked to say in this gallery, by paraphrasing Raymond Aron's words about Jean-Paul Sartre in June 1979, when they were both mobilised in favour of boat people: "If I found myself next to Gérard Collomb, it is not because we are politically agreed, but we agree in a strictly human cause. » Unfortunately, despite the advice of the Council of State and the protests of the associations, despite the recriminations of the churches, the strikes of OFPRA and the CNDA, in spite of the warnings of the Defender of Rights, the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights – CNCDH –, the analyses of the researchers, the ego of the intellectuals, the doubts of your own friends, your own elected officials, you propose today an unnecessary, dangerous and cynical law. There's no need first. What did we do two years ago, when thousands of asylum seekers survived under unworthy conditions in Calais? Together with Bernard Cazeneuve, we organized their relocation throughout France, and we improved procedures and strengthened OFPRA's capacity. It is therefore not a new law that our country needs, but additional time and resources – this is the opinion of the Council of State. Dangerous, then, because this draft law on asylum and immigration is entirely based on a logic of suspicion, tending to put repressive considerations first at the expense of fundamental rights. It organizes the expeditious processing of asylum applications by increasing the use of accelerated procedures. It also engaged refugees in a race against the clock by tightening the time frame for legal proceedings, with the expected result being an increase in the number of rejected cases. The same doctrine tends to legitimize an unprecedented reinforcement of coercive means of confinement and removal of the rejected from the right of asylum. In fact, it is the right of asylum itself that is being achieved here. And what about the confinement of the children, if not that it shames us? This bill, at last, is cynical. At the Conference of Bishops of France, the President of the Republic invited us not to see "only the frightening part of the other". Yet it is the essence of your project and the essence of your speech, when you speak of "submerged" areas. Would France have taken its share of the misery of the world, in the words of Michel Rocard? Tunisia, without a doubt; Lebanon, certainly; Germany did, and it was for us the honor of all Europe; But what about us? François Héran, in his inaugural lesson at the Collège de France – to which I attended – on 5 April, responded to the silence of your impact study. When Sweden granted 7,000 refugee status per million inhabitants in 2016, Germany 5400, and Austria 3600; When the European Union granted an average of 1393 refugee status per million inhabitants, France granted only 527. That is the truth – you must always tell the truth: it is a presidential commitment that compels you more than any other. However, you said a few days ago: "I'm afraid that if we don't solve the problem that we have to face with humanism and efficiency, others, tomorrow, will solve it without humanism but with a great will for efficiency. » Humanity and firmness, do you claim? But principles cannot pile up on each other, nor can fundamental rights be regarded as "caricatural" or "relative", as the Defender of Rights reminded our colleagues in the Law Commission. We must never, Mr. Minister of State, give in to the air of time when time has a funny look. Let us remember in this the lesson of the great Jean-Jacques Rousseau: "The very domination is servile when it is held to opinion; For you depend on the prejudices of those whom you rule by prejudice. " Your law is unbalanced and will remain unbalanced whatever happens, because it is flawed in its foundations; because the Dublin agreements no longer work and they must be renegotiated without delay; because you continue to barg in Brussels on the notion of "safe third country" outside the European Union, which you claim to have abandoned in Paris. Your law will not regulate anything; It will sow the disorder that she claims to overcome. If less than 5 per cent of men and women live outside their country, let us nevertheless agree that the situation has changed, that 30 years of migration policies have shown their limits. Let us not deny our values. Let's listen to researchers and NGOs. Let us find an appropriate response to the 21st century and its formidable challenges. The question is global, so it calls for a global response. We must defend the idea of a Paris agreement on migration and of an unprecedented effort by all nations to promote development. This is the ambition that France and Europe, our great Europe, should give themselves on the occasion of the Global Pact for Migration, announced by the United Nations. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] The French people "give asylum to foreigners banished from their homeland for the cause of freedom. He refuses it to the tyrants." This is the Constitution of Year I. It's our legacy, it's our honor, it's our duty. Let us not make ourselves complicit in the brutalization of humanity by itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u174	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u175	We will now hear the echo of the Minister of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u176	Madam President, the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, today, perhaps more than ever, I stand before you to make the voices of millions of French people heard, the voices of those whom the political-media elites ignore or despise; those who, because of an unjust electoral system, are not represented in this House as they should be; of those who were muted by modest despair or the fear of reproach, until their voices finally burst out in the open last spring when they brought Marine Le Pen to the second round of the presidential election. I am speaking today on behalf of this French people who claim the right to remain themselves; of this people who have seen their cities change over the last few decades, to the point of not recognizing them, sometimes; of this people who refuse the change of forced civilization, imposed by a nomadic oligarchy who, by pretending that our roots have died, mortgages our future to all by depriving them of their sap. Faced with the imminent danger, the most serious, no doubt, that France has ever had to face, what is the Government proposing? What does he propose to deal with the migratory submersion – since Gérard Collomb now defines it as us? Wind, vacuum, a series of measuring devices with no overall vision, whose object has no other ambition than to rule on the regulation of the time spent in administrative detention or video conferencing for the judgments of the rejected. Even more worrying, some Members of the majority propose to aggravate foreign preference, to believe the conclusions of the report by Aurélien Taché, which aims to facilitate access to work for asylum seekers – a report that speaks volumes about the moral hypocrisy of the Republic on the move, which calls for "humanism" the right to exploit in complete serenity a docile and inexpensive labour force. Mass immigration and the current misuse of the right to asylum are neither humanistic nor generous. They don't enrich anyone, except the human traffickers and the shareholders of the big taylorized companies. France must welcome its share of misery, you say? She's already done it, and more than reason. It is the country of Europe that has hosted the most immigrants since the end of the previous century, and it is hardly a coincidence that today it is the privileged target of terrorist attacks. Islamic fundamentalism has pushed on the fertile soil of communalism, it has settled everywhere. It is no longer the "living together", but the "living with" that is required. France can assimilate individuals. Her long and brilliant history proved that she was able to welcome orphans from all over the world, like her own sons. Ernest Renan wrote that what constitutes a nation is not "to belong to a common ethnographic group, it is to have done great things together in the past and to want to do it again in the future." France can assimilate individuals, but it cannot assimilate peoples. However, it was many entire peoples that France allowed to enter its territory, while Terra Nova, with public subsidies, sang the praises of multicultural and borderless society. They are the same people who today call for the welcome of future climate refugees, who potentially represent 143 million people. For what results? Insecurity, terrorism, third-worldization of the country, reduction of women's freedoms, fracture of national unity... What Jean Raspail called the ideology "Big Other", the new religion of modern times, the religion of the other, the distant, the difference, led France to complete moral and physical disarmament. Disarmament in the face of the burden of legal immigration and disarmament in the face of the scourge of illegal immigration, since more than 500,000 foreigners in an irregular situation are currently living in our territory and this situation is only worsening, as a result of the disappearance of our national borders, of which Mr Mansour Kamardine spoke, the failure of those of Europe and our senseless diplomatic choices. You want to help these people? Then stop bombing their countries. Without prior investigation, without a United Nations mandate, without parliamentary authorization and blindly following the United States, the Government, with the attack in Syria, set France on a path with unpredictable and potentially dramatic consequences. Daesh can also say thank you: as everywhere in the Middle East, where Westerners have knowingly destabilized legal and secular governments, Islamists take over and hundreds of thousands of people are thrown on the roads. Our compatriots are thirsty for France. This bill is not up to their expectations. It does not offer a long-term vision, but only an ever-increasing flow management. Precursor for decades, the National Front has submitted a counter-project which it will make heard in the public debate, waiting to be itself responsible and to implement it, unlike all those who have had the opportunity in the past. You say your position is balanced. We affirm with Marine Le Pen that, like Stephen Smith, who was quoted by the President of the Republic, you know Africa on its way to the old continent. You know that, and you refuse to take the appropriate measures to protect the French. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Our objective, and we assume it, is, of course, to stop the migratory submersion, to act and not to pretend. We will therefore present our counter-project to the French, to show them that another policy is actually possible in this area. Tonight we will not try to convince you, but we are taking advantage of this debate to lay the groundwork for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u177	You don't even protest, ladies and gentlemen, when you hear such words?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u178	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u179	Mr President, the Minister of State, the Minister of the Interior, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, from the preamble to our Constitution, the right of asylum has always been at the heart of our republican tradition. We must guard against political postures, even unbearable political recovery, like what Mr Chenu has just done, on matters relating to the great ideals of the Republic and the fundamental rights of people. This bill intends to respond to unprecedented situations, marked by a sharp rise in migratory pressure, which should not weaken in the coming years, quite the contrary. We must make every effort to ensure that refugees eligible for asylum are received respectfully. But it must be recognised that our reception system has not been set up to deal with such a large influx of applicants. Thus, the time limit for the examination of asylum applications remains too long despite the progress made by our administrations and the relevant associations, as the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, made very clear. On the other hand, we must be firm with those who do not justify a right of residence, and who must not be able to remain illegally in our territory. The deadline for processing the asylum application must therefore be six months, thus aligning itself with that in force in our European neighbours. That is the purpose of this bill, presented by the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior. It is also the translation of a campaign commitment from Emmanuel Macron, part of his program: "We will examine asylum applications in less than six months, including appeals. It is necessary to welcome the refugees who are entitled to the protection of France, and the others will be returned without delay to their country so that they do not become illegal immigrants". As with the law restoring confidence in political life, that relating to the fight against terrorism, and so many other laws that we have been voting at a steady pace for the last ten months, this text responds to a campaign commitment of the candidate in the presidential election Emmanuel Macron and, subsequently, to a commitment of the candidates of the Republic on the move in the legislative elections. The slogan of our work is to find a balance: to be generous and supportive while remaining firm, because the right of asylum cannot be diverted from its purpose. To grant asylum is to give state protection to vulnerable people. This text is not the caricature that some would like to make of it. Thus, considerable progress is being made in strengthening our right to asylum. I will mention three measures to this effect, already mentioned yesterday by the rapporteur. Article 1 provides for the issue of a four-year multi-annual residence permit as soon as the protection of stateless persons and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection is recognised. Article 3 opens the right to family reunification, allowing the entry and stay in France of parents, brothers and sisters of minors already protected. In the same article, we also introduced the possibility for OFPRA to request medical examinations to ensure that young girls and boys are protected from the risk of sexual mutilation. While other articles have led to lengthy debates, I would nevertheless like to highlight the work of the La République group in progress with the Government, and in particular that of the rapporteur, Élise Fajgeles, and of the head of the text for our group, Florent Boudié, with a view to reaching an agreement on the duration of administrative detention. This will be increased from forty-five to ninety days. It should be remembered that this period remains well below the maximum periods foreseen in the major European democracies. An amendment by the rapporteur will tend to take into account the vulnerability of the alien before a decision on administrative detention is considered. With regard to the reduction of the time limit for appeal to the CNDA, it is not a question of denying the exercise of the right of appeal, but of not maintaining false hopes for long months. Today, an applicant before the CNDA is 82% likely to have his application rejected. The text also has a whole section devoted to the better integration of foreigners in a regular situation, by widening the scope of the "passport talent", by creating new residence cards for students or by accompanying in their asylum application isolated minors who are pursuing an apprenticeship contract. This section on integration has been enriched by the report by our colleague Aurélien Taché, who is proposing an amendment, supported by the Republic on the move, to allow asylum seekers to work six months after the submission of their application. If we do not carry out this indispensable task of revising our asylum procedures, we will strengthen the unacceptable situation we are experiencing: between 300,000 and 400,000 undocumented persons reside in our country. This situation is unacceptable to our fellow citizens, but it is equally unacceptable to these foreigners, those families whose living conditions are precarious and painful. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is for all these reasons that the text that we have to discuss and vote on this week does not, as we have heard, sign the death sentence on the right of asylum, but instead protects it in a global context of extremely worrying migration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u180	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u181	Madam President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go up to this gallery to denounce a bill of display; I would have liked to point out its purely symbolic character since it succeeds a law of 2015 that is impossible to evaluate because of its recent application, and that it shortly precedes the proposed reform of the European asylum system, which is being drafted and which should lead to the adaptation of directly applicable texts in France. I would have put my words under Montesquieu's high patronage, for which useless laws weaken the essential laws. I would have mocked your definition of change, which is more of a 360-degree revolution, to walk without moving forward, Minister of State. I would have easily pointed out that this bill, like a few others, sold with a great deal of communication on change, is only a rosary of technocratic adjustments, as evidenced by the debate about the deadlines – fifteen days in this case, one month in that case – while the procedure will probably continue for years: OFPRA, CNDA, prefectural order of expulsion, appeal to the administrative court, then the administrative court of appeal, possible return to the starting box before OFPRA on a new ground. In short, a timid bill, staged with a demonstration of force. We would have glosed on the media standard represented by the mechanism for excision – a barbaric practice that we all condemn –, a falsely generous device, as unrealistic as it is. According to the UN, 30 million women will have been subjected to sexual mutilation by 2023: can we seriously deal with it? Ladies and gentlemen, France must not choose the causes to be defended from among the violations of human rights. She must condemn them all. In all countries that apply sharia, stoning is a punishment and mutilation is possible. There is no provision on this subject in the text before us. However, the European Court of Human Rights, in a 2001 judgment, notes the incompatibility of the democratic regime with the Sharia rules. I would have liked to stick to that, I assure you. No one in the ranks of the Republican right questions the right to asylum, as long as it is a justified and framed asylum. But migration remains one of the greatest political challenges of our time. The bill will not reverse the trend and will not be an effective tool to meet this challenge. It is a timid text and uncontrolled immigration will continue to be more beautiful. The reality was described with talent by Messrs. Arrived and Ciotti. This text removes from the outset all the substantive issues that could bring about a real change. Whether we agree or disagree, resolving the challenges ahead will require a decision on land law, the introduction of quotas, increased repression, the transformation of OFPRA and CNDA into real jurisdictions, and more consistent geopolitical and diplomatic action. Migration is one of the major challenges of our time, stifled by taboos. That's the worst thought. The law of the ground is not debated, we prefer it a DIY to Mayotte. The possibility of setting quotas is immediately excluded, the tightening of sanctions is forgotten since the offence of illegal residence, repealed in 2012, is not even restored. Far from improving the situation, this bill will make it worse. Prefectural administration, judges and police officers: all actors in the field fear him and are rightly alarmed. You should, Mr. Minister of State, listen to them. According to the Council of State, instead of simplifying the right of asylum, this text will make it more complex. To complicate the law, however, is to extend management time, without improving emergency situations. Finally, there is no evidence to date that the administration will be able to carry out the removals. Another major mistake is that your child-initiated grouping project is a legal misdemeanour that changes the nature of family reunification, which involves family support capacities, on the part of applicants, who have to prove their integration, stability, or resources. Minors cannot represent this essential foundation for integration. They will be handed over either to social dependency or to criminal organizations. Today, the reality is that police and justice are confronted with minors who are falsely isolated and with new channels of false minors whose police and gendarmerie have to prove that they are isolated and minors. Mr. Minister of the Interior, the reality is that the Paris City Hall is calling for help in the face of the violence of groups of minors who have been handed over to themselves in the north of the capital. Do you really want to bring their siblings and encourage them to organize themselves in this direction? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That's the reality. It is not the realism accused of being an overbidding that feeds populism, Minister of State: it is demagogy and inefficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u182	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u183	Madam President, the Minister of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, our Assembly has been meeting for the sixteenth time since 1980 to legislate on asylum and immigration, and for the third time since 2015. Despite the legislative bulimia on the subject, France did not stand up to the stakes. The quality of reception and integration of asylum seekers is not satisfactory in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u185	From the point of view of our history, it is a paradox. France has always been faithful to its values of humanism. On 26 August 1789 the Constituent Assembly adopted the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen. Article 1 of this fundamental text is known to all: "men are born and remain free and equal in rights". In 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provided: "They are endowed with reason and conscience"...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u186	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u187	..."and must act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood. » True to the spirit of these two major texts, France has been able to open its arms to the most vulnerable. I will cite only one example: the boat people. In 1979, we welcomed 128531 Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees. We all remember these terrible images of families piled up in makeshift boats fleeing their regime and ethnic persecution. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, MODEM and NG groups]] The then President of the Republic, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, was sensitive to the arguments of intellectuals Jean-Paul Sartre and Raymond Aron, who asked France to show humanity. Václav Havel, President of the Czech Republic, wrote many years later: "Human rights and universal civil rights will only be respected on one condition. Man will have to realize that he is "responsible for the whole world."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u189	We absolutely must bear in mind this condition throughout our discussions this week, because it is the man who is at the heart of this text – these men, women, children, foreigners. I am sure that, on all these benches, we are aware of what to leave a country, its roots, its life in a way, represents. We are more than 20 million immigrants, families who have left their land of birth to escape poverty, conflict or persecution. This is exactly what migrants are experiencing today. Let us always remember the traumatic journey of these people who took risks, crossed several countries after making the decision to leave their own. Throughout my professional commitment, and especially as Medical Director of the Paris Social UAS, I have been able to see how the life course of asylum seekers can be broken by what they have suffered. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM, NG, FI and GDR groups]] Because we must take our part in the future of humanity and the destiny of the most vulnerable, France must fight against smugglers, against channels, but it is our duty to welcome these men, women and children and to accompany them to our Republic. These are the very foundations of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u190	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u191	This successful integration can only be achieved if it is implemented as soon as possible, from the first reception. It takes various forms, such as decent accommodation, learning our language, helping with administrative formalities and opening up to work. As head of the Republic Group on Title III of the bill, I welcome the appointment of Alain Régnier as the interdepartmental delegate for the reception and integration of refugees. We were in Alsace yesterday with the refugees who are part of the resettlement programme. If integration is envisaged under an interdepartmental prism, let us not forget that it is also the case of the reception of asylum seekers, which is not reduced to the whole safe. Successful integration will enable everyone to find their place in society and freely express their talents and skills. As the most famous Armenian singer wrote: "We must not forget all that immigrants have brought to this country, the Picassos, Béart, Cioran... This is an extraordinary opportunity for France. Who knows, perhaps, among these migrants, future artists, scientists, philosophers, parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u192	Terrorists?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u193	Let us be pedagogues to our fellow citizens! Let us not fall back on ourselves and on our borders, but let us be driving forces to promote a renewed European right of asylum that respects the most basic rights! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM, NG, FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we begin our examination of this text, let us live up to the past of our country, let us live up to its values and its wealth – diversity – and proud of its vitality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u194	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to each of the speakers who spoke in the general debate. Yes, this text is important; Yes, it affects a number of essential values; Yes, it determines the future of our country. We must therefore act consciously. We will do so taking into account the reality, which one of your colleagues mentioned in stressing that Africa, which today has a population of 1.2 billion, will soon have twice as many; We cannot imagine that they can all come to Europe or France. We will never forget the duty of asylum, which is at the heart of republican values. However, if we forget the need to take into account the realities of the world, tomorrow this duty of asylum can be called into question, even though it is, in our view, imprescriptible. First of all, I would like to welcome the quality of the work that the rapporteur has conducted in committee and that of her report. She explained to us how she had formed an intimate opinion on the text, going to the field...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u196	She could have gone to Mayotte!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u197	... to see all the actors, including migrants, and to observe the functioning of the services and the various institutions, in order to know the points of strength and weakness. That's what we have to do, both of us: look at how things actually work or malfunction and try to bring solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u198	That's what we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u199	I am sure, Madam rapporteur, that after spending a few more hours together, we will be leaving this House with a perfectly balanced text. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marielle de Sarnez, gave us an international view of the problem of large-scale migration and of the action to be taken for the joint development of all parts of the world. Yes, like you, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I am one of those who believe that if we are to respond to the great challenges of this century, we must provide Africa with a development response. As I have pointed out at the moment, the demographic explosion on this continent does not solve problems by transferring people to Europe. However, it has a profound duty of solidarity with Africa: the duty to enable its development. While Africa faces an important demographic problem, it also has, as we all know, exceptional potential. As you recalled, it is one of the continents that contains the most resources not only material but also human. If we help him to build his development together, we will solve his problems better than by welcoming many people to our continent, on the margins of our cities. You mentioned how we wanted to work with African countries. An ambassador for migration – Mr Pascal Teixeira Da Silva – was appointed to discuss with them. It is in the dialogue between these countries and ours that we want to deal with the problems of asylum and immigration. Madam rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, you have spoken on many issues, including the access of asylum seekers to the labour market after six months. We will have an opportunity to discuss this issue at length: I believe that we need to shorten the deadlines from which asylum seekers who are entitled to asylum can work in our country and integrate into our society. It is an objective that I can share, because it is through work that it is possible to integrate into society. In concrete terms, as in the case of professional immigration, the DIRRECTE – the Regional Directorate for Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment – will have the opportunity to give authorisation, and silence will be accepted. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Madam Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, dear Yaël Braun-Pivet, I would like first of all to welcome your work in facilitating this committee, on this bill as well as on all the texts submitted to it. I must recall that the Law Commission – I have formerly belonged to that of the Senate – is particularly active: when you are a member of it, you have to work on a large number of texts. You rightly stressed how urgent it is to act to leave people in the indetermination as little as possible. The great project we are carrying is to tell the people concerned as soon as possible whether they will benefit from asylum tomorrow and then be able to integrate into society, or whether they are far from the conditions for obtaining it not only in France but also in the rest of Europe. The sooner the answer will be given, the sooner those who will be granted asylum will be able to integrate into French society and the sooner the others will be able to return to their country before the ties are completely broken. Ms Marie-Pierre Rixain, Chairperson of the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, and Ms Annie Chapelier, Rapporteur on behalf of the Delegation, obviously stressed the problems of women in vulnerable situations. As we will have the opportunity to verify, many provisions of the text deal with this point. When we talk about women who are victims of domestic violence or girls who are at risk of excision, we pay particular attention to the fragility of women. I have already had the opportunity to respond to Mr Larrivé's motion to reject it beforehand and to the motion to refer it back to committee, defended by Mr Ciotti. I have no doubt that there will be many exchanges between us this whole week if Mr Ciotti is here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u200	I'm here! On this side of the Chamber, look!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u201	I was afraid Nice would hold you back, but I knew you wanted to be there. I would like to assure Mrs Elsa Faucillon of the GDR Group – her colleagues will tell her –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u202	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u203	...that, as part of the new policy we want to pursue, we want to give ourselves the means to reduce the deadlines to six months while maintaining the quality of the procedures. If we carry out a large number of recruitments in the services of the prefectures dedicated to foreigners, to OFII, to OFPRA or to the CNDA – the French Office for Immigration and Integration, the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons, and the National Court of Asylum – it is to ensure the same quality for all decisions taken, which, being always individual, require a very thorough analysis. It is this quality that we want to maintain while reducing delays. I do not know that in Germany, where the deadlines are much shorter, less attention is paid to asylum-seekers' files. Mr Florent Boudié, I would like to pay tribute to your real work in sharing knowledge of the text. It is clear that we were leaving by far, simply because the text was better known by its context than by its proposals. While Members initially thought that the text was totally unbalanced, the more we move forward in our knowledge of it, the more numerous are those who see that, if we want to manage the situation effectively, we also want to do so with humanity. Thank you for doing this work. I think that, throughout the debate, we will have an opportunity to engage in dialogue to further improve the bill. Mr. Pierre-Henri Dumont, I found you very severe...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u204	Demandant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u205	... with regard to this text and the action taken by the Government. For you, this government is not acting, it is just suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u206	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u207	He's not acting, he's agitating!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u208	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I was very pleased to receive the text from the Mayor of Calais who asked Members to vote for this text because she saw how much the situation has changed: there are only 400 migrants in Calais, when there were 7,000! Yes, we have reduced migration to Calais, and at the same time we have done so with humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u209	With bulldozers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u210	Today, in Pas-de-Calais, we have built CAES – reception and situation assessment centres – as well as mobile sanitary facilities and mobile canteens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u211	Can we tell how much it all cost?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u212	We must also build them in Mayotte, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u213	This shows that immigration problems can be dealt with effectively and, at the same time, with humanity! Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, I have heard a number of your concerns and I can tell you that they are, for many, the subjects of the Government's attention. I know that you would have liked more of your amendments to be adopted in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u214	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u215	But the final meaning of the text corresponds well to the philosophy that you carry, both generous and realistic in taking into account the problems of our society. In particular, you raised the issue of the offence of solidarity. I would like to point out here that this offence does not exist, because Article L. 622-4 of the CESEDA – the Code on the Entry and Residence of Aliens and the Right of Asylum – states: "No criminal proceedings may be brought against an alien [...] assistance for the irregular stay of an alien if it is the act of [...] any natural or legal person, where the act in question has not given rise to any direct or indirect consideration and consists in providing legal advice or services for the restoration, accommodation or medical care intended to ensure decent and decent living conditions abroad, or any other assistance aimed at preserving the dignity or physical integrity of the alien".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u216	What if these are transportation benefits?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u217	Yes, all this is already taken into account in CESEDA, and that is good. What we do not want is for a number of people to be able to act as heralds of irregular migration and to say that borders no longer exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u218	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u219	From then on, we would be unable to manage the movements that they would have generated themselves – I have seen it sometimes in the Alps, where, after very imprudent calls, the high-mountain gendarmerie had to save migrants. Mr Michel Zumkeller, in committee, your group has spoken widely and tabled a number of amendments. I know that we share many concerns. We see the difficulties that our society can experience and we must respond to them, but with a strong sense of responsibility. In particular, in your amendments, you stressed the importance of making effective refusals of protection on serious grounds of public policy; Of course we share this concern and will be open to all constructive discussions on this point. Mrs Karamanli, I always listen to your comments with great respect, because your convictions are deep and you do not regard your interlocutor as a being totally without reflection, analysis and willingness to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u220	That's nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u221	We are defending different positions, but let me just tell you, what we do not accept is that our asylum system is completely embolised, that our accommodation system knows the same fate, that tents are installed in the streets of our big cities...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u222	That's what's likely to happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u223	... and that calls to 115 are mostly unanswered. We're going to try to change all this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u224	How?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u225	You could have done it in the past,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u226	What were you doing back then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u227	...but we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u228	We tried to do it in 2015!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u229	Mrs Obono, you always express yourself with a great passion. Of course, we defend different visions of society: for our part, we are in favour of the right of asylum, while you are in favour of an unconditional reception, across all borders, whether national or European.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u230	You're talking nonsense! Definitely the law against fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u231	Please, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u232	We mustn't confuse asylum with immigration! These are two different subjects!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u233	Let me tell you this won't work. Of course, you can have generous ideas, but I belong to a generation...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u234	Basically, generosity is not your thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u235	Mr. Bernalicis, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u236	... who saw how, from the generous ideas shared by a number of his own, one could lead to the worst disasters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u237	All right? What's that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u238	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The word which does not cover reality, which wants to impose itself on it, risks, on the pretext of making men happy, actually doing their misfortune.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u239	We don't understand anything! What are you talking about, Minister of State? What's your argument? Explain to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u240	That is why we will not be able to follow you in the way you want to tell us. Mr Stéphane Peu, I am always listening to your comments with great attention, first of all because your city, which has experienced and is still experiencing great difficulties, is undergoing a profound transformation. Basically, beyond the ideological and partisan positions of each other, we agree on the substance: we want to try to build a city of mixedness, a society of mixedness. In neighborhoods already in great difficulty, if people experiencing even greater difficulties arrive tomorrow by hundreds or thousands,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u241	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u242	Hundreds or thousands, only?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u243	...so we won't be able to change life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u244	That's what's going on with you, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u245	[["Ah! » on several benches of the LR and FI groups]] In my agglomeration, in cities like Vaulx-en-Velin, I knew how to get them back to a future. That's what you're doing in your commune, Mr. Little, and that's what I want to do with you in your department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u246	Be careful! He'll send the CRS, just like Tolbiac!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u247	We may have different opinions, but you can always count on the Minister of the Interior to improve things. Beyond our differences, on all these benches, we will be truly united in action. To transform society positively is your will, and it is mine too. I'm still not the worst placed to interpret Emmanuel Macron's program...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u248	You're the author!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u249	The inspirator!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u250	It's Macron's muse!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u251	His director of conscience!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u252	...on many points, and on this one in particular. Let me read to you what he wrote at the time: "France must live up to its historical tradition of welcoming"...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u253	With you, it's missed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u254	... "while showing itself, under always dignified conditions, inflexible with persons who do not meet the conditions of stay in our territory. If we left the doors open, then the communes that are experiencing a number of difficulties could never find a more harmonious life and true solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u255	"Look, they're here! In the countryside, in the cities! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u256	Mrs Marie Guévenoux, thank you for your intervention. You understand that the situation has become unbearable for all, because, as you have recalled, our laws do not allow us to say early enough who is entitled to asylum and who is not entitled to it. As you said, you have accompanied me to Albania, while some of your colleagues have come with me to Niger, Niamey. So you know that with these countries, we have visions that are not contradictory but complementary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u257	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u258	We want to build with them and they want to build with us. That is what justifies the provisions of this bill. They work with us to achieve the goal we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u259	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u260	Mr Mansour Kamardine, I appreciated the final sentence of your speech. If there's a territory where you can see what could happen better and worse, it's your island. If we are unable to find a solution to irregular immigration, then violence arises, so the fractures are declared. That is what is currently happening in Mayotte. During the crisis on your island, I followed the situation by videoconferencing with local officials. I know that we are far from having solved all the problems, and I will have the opportunity, during the discussions, to provide a number of elements of response on the Government's plans to ensure that Mayotte regains momentum and is no longer the victim of such fractures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u261	Come and visit us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u262	Mr. Boris Vallaud, I want everything we want, but still!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u263	Don't be mean!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u264	You've been carrying out responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u265	With you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u266	With me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u267	Yes, Mr. Minister of State! You, too, were socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u268	At one point, I decided a number of disagreements more clearly and quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u269	You know how to seize the opportunities!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u270	Because you know me, you know that on these issues, I've always had the same vision. I remember being confronted with the same problems when I became mayor in 2001 and then president of Lyon's metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u271	All for one man!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u272	The cumulation of mandates is the old world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u273	At one point, in order to allow the commune of Vaulx-en-Velin to return from the front, together with its mayor, Maurice Charrier, a communist renovator and man of great vision, we had to make choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u274	[[Smile]] Reformer Communist: It's a pleonasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u275	It may be a pleonasm – in any case, I hope! We were forced to make difficult choices, but come and see today the neighborhood that he named the Square of Silk: it was a place of perdition; It has become one of the most in line with the development of the city, where companies are rebuilding – where they were all lost – and where the social mix is rebuilding.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u276	What is the link to the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u277	It is this model that I would like us to develop at national level. Yes, Mr. Vallaud, we will try to change things. We will do so in our own way, and in a year and a half or two years you will be able to judge whether we have actually succeeded. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr. Sébastien Chenu, you know that we don't have the same values... Yes, it's like advertising! Indeed, between the desire to take into account certain issues and the kind of xenophobic and populist passion that you are trying to maintain, there is no common measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u279	They're insults!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u280	[[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The France we would have if you came to power tomorrow, it would be scary, I affirm. Renan, whom you have quoted, said that the nation is a plebiscite every day. What did he mean by that? That the nation is not simply the sedimentation of the past, but that it is the desire to build a common future. This is what we are trying to bring with all the French, regardless of their origin: to build a common future, so that all the French, all those who live on the ground of France, will return to a certain hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u281	Living on the ground in France is not enough to be French!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u282	Mr Rudigoz, you know what we were able to do together. Bringing together, gathering together: this has always been what we wanted to achieve. For those to whom we will grant asylum, tomorrow, in our country – but also for their children – we want a prosperous future. We are a great land of immigration. We have indeed known the Armenians, victims of genocide, who were joining this region of France. We have experienced the immigration of Italians, subjected to a fascist regime. We experienced Spanish immigration – they were usually Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u283	Comparison is not right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u284	Yes, we have experienced these migrations and, each time, in the tradition of our city, which must be the tradition of our country, we wanted that, for those who came to France and for their children, there would be a happy future, not a future of misery.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u285	Words!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u286	Mr Jean-Louis Masson, I appreciated your comments because I very much like preterition as a figure of style, and the one you used seduced me stylistically. But no, we're not still! Look what we've done since the beginning of this legislature! We had a problem with a few European countries, with the malfunctions that I mentioned earlier; We've solved it. We were, because of a judgment of the Court of Cassation, unable to remove the "dublinés"; We have put on the agenda the proposed law Warsmann...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u287	You want to get back on it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u288	... and, thanks to the provisions adopted by the National Assembly, we are no longer embarrassed to transfer those whose application for asylum belongs to another State of the Union. Yeah, little by little, we're reordering some big malfunctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u289	As far as the observation on malfunctions is concerned, we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u290	A certain fatalism had begun: it was said that nothing could be done, that it was like that, and everyone accepted this kind of fatality,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u291	Not everyone! The majority you belonged to!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u292	...whether in the administration, in the prefectures, in our agents or among the security forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u293	And the light was!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u294	Since we have moved forward, we are moving forward again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u295	So be it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u296	I referred to the gap between the number of OQTFs – obligations to leave French territory – pronounced and the number of those executed; This gap is now closing. Mrs Martine Wonner, each and every one of us is obviously always marked by her experience, and I understand that your previous duties make you attach a special price to the problems of vulnerability. You were just talking about boat people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u297	What would you have done then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u298	My city – one always refers to its past – has seen the foundation of Handicap International and the Bioforce Institute, by people who, in the major political crises that our world has experienced, have been in the forefront to bring relief and welcome. Therefore, I will never wear a refusal policy. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In looking at each person, one must always look, as you do, at what in the other is deeply human, connecting you to him and founding our common humanity. However, we must also be able to establish rules so that things can work, so that a society is not simply an idyllic view of the world, but that this vision of the world can be translated into reality. As I always say, it is when people's daily lives change that we can say that we have succeeded, and I hope that during this quinquennium it can change and improve profoundly for all those who live in France, regardless of their origin. That is the mission we have to fulfil together, and that is, I hope, what we are going to contribute to during the review of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u299	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u300	The first speaker on Rule 1 is Mr Michel Castellani.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u301	Everyone knows that controlling migration flows is an acute issue for Western countries and will become a problem because global demographics will make it ever more pressing. Things must first be treated in a human way – that's what we wanted to say above all – because the people involved are human beings, most often fragile, unhappy and debunked. The conditions of control and management must therefore always retain a dimension of respect, if not fraternity. After saying that, we understand the difficulty of the situation. France and Europe are not in a position to absorb the tens of millions of potential migrants, present and future, as the global demographics are characterized by a strong and continuous population growth in the countries of the South. There is no miracle and painless solution to this question, which is that of the misery of the world. France must therefore give itself the means to absorb the people it can integrate, to manage with dignity the case of others and to promote indispensable solutions of co-development, the only way to master the current galloping global demography. These are the principles that we believe should govern the delicate issue that we are starting to address.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u302	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u303	Madam President, the Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what the Head of State wants us to believe, there are places in France where the withdrawal of identity is moving forward, while integration is receding. It is our responsibility to conduct a new migration policy. We must stop falling into angelism on this issue. No, France is not a set of communities; She's much more than that. Yes, we are a nation and we must choose who can join it. We have the right, and even the duty, to demand that foreigners comply with our customs, laws and traditions. Of course, we must be able to continue to welcome those who are victims of persecution, those who are fleeing torture or war; It's our Christian and Republican tradition, it's our honor. Of course, we must also continue to receive talents, although our country is full of them. But these different openings must be controlled. I will also oppose all measures which will not go in that direction. Let us remember that in total, France has more than 3 million job seekers without any activity, 8.9 million poor, according to the threshold used by INSEE, and that our debt reaches 2000 billion euros. This context and our sovereignty oblige us to pursue a controlled immigration policy. First of all, we must put an end to the misuse of the right of asylum. The 100,000 asylum claims bar was crossed in 2017, and the crises in the Middle East in no way justify this explosion. The Mediterranean has become a tomb and we must consider those called "passers" as true slave traders. We must make detention the basic principle, in order to guarantee the expulsion of foreigners in an irregular situation. The house arrest, dear to the heart of Manuel Valls, is a failure. Our hand must not tremble in the face of this illegal immigration, but we must also control legal immigration further, by setting quotas voted in Parliament every year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u304	The two minutes are over!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u305	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Finally, we must define our requirement to obtain French nationality, because becoming French is above all to love France and respect its uses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u306	She's gone beyond her speaking time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u307	That, ladies and gentlemen, is my course when I defend amendments. The French overwhelmingly support these objectives, which are essential to our country. This is also humanism, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u308	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u309	Hobbes said that a good law is both necessary for the good of the people and easy to understand. This text is certainly necessary, Minister of State, but it is difficult to understand. We need a balanced text, and this balance is precisely difficult to achieve. We do not understand the contradictions that are emerging in the balance of this text, and we understand all the less why you have not always taken the opportunity of working in committee to restore this balance. The major shortcomings of Article 1, its main inconsistencies concern the issue of a multi-year residence permit to the applicant's partner and his children within one year of their eighteenth birthday. Madam rapporteur, I have taken note of your remarks in committee on these two points; Two co-ordination amendments were tabled later in the text in order to take them into account. As for your argument that these provisions are not introduced by this text but are already in force in the CESEDA, I would remind you, Madam rapporteur, that this is precisely our role: if we cannot amend the law, if we cannot take account of developments in the debate, if we cannot take account of past mistakes in correcting them, what is the role of Parliament? The National Assembly is a forum for discussion, debate and negotiation necessary for legislation. To reject these proposals on the pretext of the pre-existence of certain laws is, for me, a very easy reflex, which would have deprived our country of its most important laws had it been used in the past.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u310	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u311	If many things have already been said and this material unfortunately does not escape the caricatures and dogmatic postures, it is necessary to know reason to keep. It is not a question of choosing between a sudden closure and a blissful opening, but of proposing a path other than that which, year after year, displays its failure. Without bias or false appearance, we must look at reality in the face and not forbid ourselves to lift any taboo. Immigration explodes in an economic and social context that does not allow the successful integration journey. Under no circumstances do you propose the necessary and expected rupture, but ad hoc adjustments that will not solve anything, or even weaken the legal tools of the French administration. Tarnishing the sources of illegal immigration by blocking the appeal of social benefits – a foreigner who has just arrived in France does not have to benefit from social benefits financed by long-term residents – but also organise the systematic return of illegal immigrants to their country of origin, or even expel foreigners disturbing public order, are measures of common sense to restore France's control of its destiny, without denying its history and heritage. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us take advantage of the opportunity given us here and now to open the debate on immigration, but guided by one requirement: the interest of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u312	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u313	Extending the duration of residence permits, facilitating their granting and extending the scope, as proposed in Article 1, is, in our view, in the right direction; That is why we will vote for this article. Too bad, however, that he is only a small island of humanity in the midst of an ocean of cruelty! Absolutely everyone agrees that this bill is clearly unbalanced: institutions of the Republic such as the Council of State, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms or the Defender of Rights, civil society through all foreign aid associations, as well as all OFPRA and CNDA trade unions, and even first-hour supporters of the Head of State urge him to step back on this text. It is not this article that will make all these citizens and associations swallow the pill, especially since it raises a number of questions. Why not open the right to a four-year multi-year card or a resident card to all children of refugees, beneficiaries of subsidiary protection and stateless persons? Why not open the same guarantees as refugees to beneficiaries of subsidiary protection and stateless persons? Why, even when you try humanity, do you seem not to want to go all the way? We will propose amendments to bring Article 1 up to date. We really hope that these debates will go beyond the caricatures that the minister has just carried on. He must not have heard the whole of my speech and he completely manipulated our remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u314	Caricature is old as the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u315	He even insulted, in a certain way, all the associations that are mobilizing themselves by attributing us proposals that are not ours. No doubt he had absolutely no argument to respond to the legitimate criticisms that we are tens of thousands against his bill. Let us hope that the parliamentarians gathered here will not fall into this kind of very malicious blunder!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u316	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u317	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u318	France has been able, during its history, to write its most beautiful pages assimilating the diversity of those who wanted to join our ideal. But to succeed together, migratory flows must be assimilated and controlled. But the reality is that our country has been sinking for years into refusing to see the seriousness of the situation. Mr Minister of State, in referring to areas submerged by asylum seekers, you make a lucid observation. Unfortunately, this bill does not respond. As shown in section 1, your text navigates between various measures: measuring devices to look firm – all those who brawl against this bill help you, in a way, to look firm in front of the French – and measuring devices to look generous. However, border control does not exist. The necessary quotas do not exist – they are applied in Canada, which we received from the Prime Minister this afternoon. We are therefore in a situation of immigration suffered and not chosen. At the same time, family reunification has become the door to immigration of social benefits. As long as we do not set a waiting period for the granting of social benefits, we will not be able to do so. Finally, the right of asylum, to which we all hold, has become the door to mass immigration. Thus, once this bill is passed, we will be in the greatest national inability to control migratory flows. That is why Debout France proposes a real referendum of shared initiative. I will write to all my colleagues to propose to them this popular referendum, thanks to which the French will finally break this unique thought, this media omerta that forbids talking about the real problems: the financial waste of immigration, the ghettos at our doorstep – there is only to see the Villette – etc. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Only the people will be able to regain control of their destiny, but I fear that the great discussions that we will have here over the next few nights will still disappoint the French, who will have understood that you do not really want to fight against this migratory madness that takes our country away.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u319	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u320	Mr Minister of State, since you have invited us to the debate, we will of course answer you, rule after rule, amendment after amendment. But when we begin this discussion, after hearing your answers, I would like to go back to questions that we raised last night, and which, paradoxically, you have not answered, despite your very long answer, illustrated in particular by very concrete examples drawn from the city that is so dear to you. As we come to an important moment in this debate essential for the future of our country, the question arises of a hidden pact that you would have passed with your majority The Republic on the move, concerning the future regularization of 30,000 to 40,000 foreigners in an irregular situation, as Le Monde mentioned in its edition of 14 April last.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u321	We've got to answer it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u322	We are waiting for an answer because there are radically different directions from what you are suggesting to public opinion and our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u323	It's a bargain!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u324	If the only point of arrival of this text is to obtain the regularization of 40,000 foreigners in an irregular situation – 10% of them – this will be a radically different orientation from the one you support. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister of State, we ask you and you owe the truth to the national representation: in addition to what you usually do – because I remind you that 180,000 regularisations took place from 2012 to 2017 – is there, yes or no, a hidden, masked plan to regularize 30000 to 40000 foreigners in an irregular situation? Yes or no, is there a hidden plan for regularization?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u325	Answer me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u326	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u327	I would like to refer to Article 1, which secures the right of residence of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection and stateless persons by creating two new four-year multi-year residence permits, which will be issued to them automatically. Subsidiary protection is now granted to any person whose situation does not meet the definition of refugee status but who is subject to a significant risk, such as the death penalty or torture, in his or her country. It is therefore a matter of distinguishing the rights that this protection offers from the rights of a refugee, since it is granted for a momentary danger, which may evolve over time. A number of amendments have been tabled so that the duration of the residence permit is ten years. It is important that a difference be made between the duration of a refugee and that of a person receiving subsidiary protection. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, the one-year right of residence in force does not adequately meet the needs of this protection, since it is almost always renewed. We therefore support the Government's intention to establish a four-year residence permit for persons entitled to subsidiary protection. This will mean fewer applications for prefectures and more visibility for protected persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u328	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u329	In contrast to our colleagues in the LR Group, who want to delete Article 1, I consider it very important because it aims to provide greater stability for protected persons, which is a real step forward – which has been welcomed by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The purpose of this article is to secure the right of residence of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection and stateless persons by providing them with a four-year multi-year residence permit as soon as the protection is recognised. If recalled, subsidiary protection shall be granted to persons exposed in their countries of origin to the death penalty or execution, torture or inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment, to a serious and individual threat to their lives or persons as a result of indiscriminate violence resulting from a situation of armed conflict, whether internal or international. These conditions justifying the grant have a lasting effect. It is therefore necessary to secure the right of residence for persons in need of protection and thus to avoid cumbersome administrative procedures. Under current law, beneficiaries of subsidiary protection and stateless persons are granted an initial residence permit of one year's duration, renewable for a maximum of two years, while, as has been said, the conditions justifying the granting of protection have a lasting effect. Such brevity can hinder people's integration and weaken their employment or housing approaches. The four-year duration of the bill corresponds to that provided for in the general multi-year map created by the law of 7 March 2016. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This bill proposes two new four-year multi-year residence permits, which will be issued automatically. It also aims at harmonising the conditions for granting licences by extending the scope of the beneficiaries of the new residence permit to the cohabitant or partner of a civil union of stateless persons, as well as to their direct ascendants if they are unmarried minors. This article is therefore a real step forward for the people concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u330	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u331	[[Smiles and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM, MODEM, NG, Fi and GDR groups]] Minister of State, in listening to you, we find the former socialist senator and the left-wing angelism, which is reflected in this text. Indeed, it is not at all up to the record of an immigration that has continued to explode in recent years in our country. It bothers you! France, in its legal body, recognises the right to asylum and ensures its effective implementation. There is no question of calling into question the right of asylum, which has long been recognised as a human right. However, this right, now, is too often diverted from its original meaning by some; It is too often used as an immigration channel. With this text, you create an air appeal for massive immigration because you are planning the possibility, for holders of the residence card under subsidiary protection and statelessness, to benefit from the extension of family reunification not only to direct ascendants, but also to siblings. In addition, the duration of the title is extended to four years from the first admission to the residence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u332	It's called the right to live as a family!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u333	The risk, with this article, is to strengthen the attraction of France for asylum applications. Our country, with its millions of unemployed people, its abyssal debt and its growing social tensions, cannot, of course, accommodate all those who are subjected to disrespectful treatment of fundamental rights in their country. It is essential to restore its full meaning to the right of asylum and to differentiate it further from immigration, in order to face the real migratory submersion that our country is experiencing. That is the whole meaning of the amendments that we will be defending during the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u334	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u335	Clause 1 is in the image of this bill: it is tinted with good feelings; He hides his laxity under a varnish of firmness; it does not respond in any way to the emergencies and challenges of our time; it continues France's commitment to this crazy migration policy; It aggravates this unsustainable foreign preference for many of our compatriots. The latest governments, on the right and on the left, have continuously increased the number of residence permits, which almost doubled between 2000 and 2017. The year 2017 saw the record regularization, with 262,000 titles granted and an explosion of asylum applications, which have passed the 100,000 mark. The asylum has been totally diverted in order to legalize illegal immigrants...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u336	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u337	... who have come to our country for economic reasons and to benefit – it must be said – from juicy social benefits and benefits which the French State often deprives its own citizens. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] By this article, you plan to improve the reception, to encourage it, to amplify it, while common sense commands to control and limit it. You propose to us the security of the right to stay; We ask for respect for the right of our people to remain on their own.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u338	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u339	This text speaks of the beneficiaries of international protection, of course, but you forget other beneficiaries of your policy. These are those of the juicy business of illegal immigration in particular. Oh, of course there are traffickers and smugglers! It is not them that I am thinking of, but all those who feed on the weaknesses of your text, all those who feed on the facilitation industry, the agencies specializing in money transfers, the programmes that organise labour immigration, the industry of assistance to illegals and illegals. Yes, there is a marked trend towards the professionalization of the business of reception, immigration, now on the rise with the reception of more and more isolated foreign minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u340	These words are outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u341	[[Protests on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] These yesterday's winners will be even more so tomorrow because of your text. These are the CIMADE and its 74% public money budget, the GISTI and France Terre d'asile, with its 44 million grants, 44 million French money and a general manager in place for twenty-one years, paid by the French and support of Emmanuel Macron during the presidential campaign!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u342	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u343	These associations are mostly volunteers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u344	Volunteers who honor France!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u345	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] So yes, the winners of the immigration business are the winners of your law! That's your new world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u346	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u347	There is a lot of talk about everything and anything, rather little about Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u348	You're not gonna start giving lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u349	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For those who look at us, I would like to recall that this article secures the right of residence of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection and stateless persons. In 2005, I was given the opportunity to meet in Sarajevo a young woman, Vjoska, whose passport was marked "United Nations Mission in Kosovo". I am French to the bones, as the English say, very proud and attached to my homeland, I have often asked myself the question and put it in its place: how do we do when we don't have a homeland? However, this text takes a position in favour of stateless persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u350	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u351	The Government wants to speed up the processing of asylum applications and improve the reception conditions for applicants: this is the purpose of Title I of a text which, unfortunately, has evolved in committee, but not in the sense desired by the Republican Group. Behind a facade of firmness, the deputies of the La République Emmanuel Macron group supported a clearly left-wing policy, no doubt generous but of which France no longer has the means. All the amendments tabled by the Republican Group were rejected. However, it seems to us entirely justified to refuse to issue a temporary or multi-year residence permit to an alien who has been sentenced to more than one year in prison or has been reported for radicalisation of a terrorist nature. This text, full of contradictions, does not sufficiently measure the consequences of migratory pressure, with more and more people in an illegal situation in our territory. My group is very concerned about the expansion of family reunification, with the possibility of bringing the brothers and sisters in, and the greatest ease of obtaining a work permit. These are air calls that will inevitably generate uncontrollable drifts. Particular attention must, of course, be paid to migrants who are persecuted, vulnerable or vulnerable, victims of war, terrorism or organized international prostitution. This text does not convince the Council of State, which would have wanted an informed public strategy to meet these challenges. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] To want to be neither right nor left in the control of immigration, one ends up losing one's soul.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u352	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u353	As we begin the discussion of the text on asylum and immigration, I would like to point out that this is the fifth or even sixth text on these issues that we have been considering since 2015, although the precedents were more related to security issues. You reminded us that the number of asylum seekers and immigration is increasing very significantly in our country. I regret that once again, Minister of State, we are led to examine new measures without any substantive analysis of the previous measures, their effects or shortcomings, or the measures we have proposed ourselves. However, this text allows me to recall, if necessary, that France is and has always been a land of asylum and reception. The Prime Minister of Canada has just reminded us of this. In my personal capacity, Minister of State, I approve section 1, which replaces the current one-year residence permits for private and family life, two new four-year multi-year residence permits. However, if we all know that France must remain a host country and that it will be even more so in the years to come, it cannot be unconditionally and disorganized. This is certainly another gap in your text and in our migration policy in general: we are trying to organise the reception of the people who arrive, while it must be noted that we do not always have the means to receive them with dignity, to the point that sometimes I wonder whether it would not be more relevant to direct our actions towards development aid, particularly from African countries. Yes, France must remain a land of asylum, but this must not be done at the expense of the security of our people. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Finally, Minister of State, even if the word appears in the title of your text, there is a serious lack of a chapter on integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u354	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u355	First of all, Minister of State, we can only legislate in light of clear assessments of the current arrangements. However, these arrangements were put in place in 2015 and 2016 with the same objectives, which we share, to reduce the time taken to investigate the asylum application and to make the decisions taken definitively effective. These measures have not been evaluated, so you are building on sand. Second, we can only legislate in support of a strategy based on the exact measurement of the challenges to be met. However, these challenges are not established. You're talking about a migration crisis, but the numbers are not there. There is no submersion, minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u356	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u357	... at most a migration peak corresponding to the disaster in Syria, with a decrease already seen in 2017. And then, this text claims to be effective. But you can see that without knowing where we come from and where we are going, you give way to the ideological and ethical floats that we see in this House. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and FI groups]] Finally, the real strategy would be to tackle the Dublin Protocol and the absurdity of its application. It would also be to work on a European policy, which is currently being examined and which awaits us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u358	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u359	The real question is: will this text achieve its objective, which is to control immigration? Unfortunately not, for several reasons. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] First of all, asylum, as you know, Minister of State, concerns only 15% of first-time residence permits in France. It is certainly important to reform asylum, a fundamental right that honours France. But we have to face things. One thing is missing in your bill: the issue of unaccompanied minors, and you know that very well. The truth is that you leave the local authorities completely distraught with this matter, in the name of child protection, the responsibility entrusted to the departments, whereas the file is in fact a matter for the State since it is a matter of migratory flows. If you want to answer a question that concerns everyone in our territories, take back that jurisdiction, fully assume it and put it in the bill, Minister of State! Then, beyond the issue of asylum, there is that of controlled immigration, an expression that appears in the title of the bill, but there are also other issues that are not mentioned: economic immigration and family immigration. We welcomed Mr Justin Trudeau to this Chamber earlier. I invite you to look at Canada's policy, including the establishment of an immigrant quota system, to respond to the country's economic situation and capabilities. Such a point-based selection system would allow us to achieve immigration by merit, with, on the one hand, firmness on migratory flows and, on the other hand, a genuine integration policy. The French Republic is not a society of communities living alongside each other; the French Republic is one and indivisible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u360	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u361	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] That is why we need to make much more progress on the issue of migration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u362	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u363	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Article 1 provides for the issue of residence permits. I asked in the Committee on Social Affairs a very technical question which did not receive an answer – the rapporteur said very kindly that the answer would be given to me in the sitting – about the reception certificates which the mayors must validate. As mayor, you had to sign a number of reception certificates corresponding to the 1982 decree. A family that receives a foreign person must complete the form: housing, surface, conditions and number of occupants, everything is specified, including the duration, from twenty to ninety days maximum. But the medical insurance certificate, up to 30000 euros, is never signed by either the host or the host. My question is simple. The town hall is never informed of the departure of the lodgers. Where are they going? Are they disappearing in nature? Are they going home? It's obviously an air call for uncontrolled immigration. Mr Minister of State, I would like an answer to this technical question which concerns all the mayors of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u364	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u365	Article 1 provides for the issue of a four-year multi-annual residence permit for persons subject to subsidiary protection or stateless status. I could also refer to article 2, which also deals with international protection. First of all, since this map is systematically renewed, we could have been more generous or ambitious by extending the deadline beyond the four years envisaged here. I had tabled amendments to that effect in committee with some colleagues. We have not tabled them again for this debate, because we have understood the spirit of this text. So I think we'll stick to it at four years. However, it would have been possible to simplify the work of the services of our prefectures, which do not deal with the current situation and will not be in a better position to deal with it with this text. The second point is that the conditions laid down in the text will put family members in a situation of insecurity, since the guarantee given to the stateless person or to the beneficiary of subsidiary protection will be denied to his spouse or partner. These provisions are a form of suspicion, whereas Article 23 of the European Directive of 13 December 2011 calls on Member States to ensure that the family unit is maintained, and Article 24 provides for the issue of a residence permit under the same conditions for other family members. In this case, in my view, the bill does not comply with the spirit of the December 13, 2011 directive. We would have honoured ourselves by taking into account, in Article 1, a human reality that does not stop at the person entitled to protection. Including his family would have been a strong symbol. With Article 1, we are only taking one step, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u366	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u367	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u368	Minister of State, I would like to respond to your comments on the situation in Calais. I will not comment on the analyses or political strategies of each other, but I would like you to be able to enlighten me. How does this text make it possible to improve the situation in Calais in practice? Give me an article to that effect!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u369	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u370	How does this text make it possible to leave the grey zone, which means that migrants who can apply for asylum in France do not do so and remain stationed in Calais? How is it possible to get out of the schizophrenia of your government, which distributes meals and, at the same time, destroys the camps and forbids the creation of any fixation point? I would also like you to explain to the residents of the Beau-Marais priority area of the Chico-Mendes wood, who are subjected to piles of rubbish and whose lawns are squatted, how the situation has improved since you came to power. I would like you to explain to the residents of the Transmarck area and the Turquerie area how the wild food distributions by anarchist activists create order, while the state has taken over the distribution of meals itself. I would like you to explain to the road hauliers who see their goods defiled and their tarpaulins slashed every day by migrants, how the situation has improved since you came to power. I'd like you to explain to the motorists on the highway and the port ring road, who are blocked at night by the migrant dams, how the situation has improved since you were in power. I would also like you to explain how the situation has improved since you were in power, when a migrant died stabbed a month ago following an exchange of gunfire during a rixe. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Finally, I would like you to explain to the CRS, who was beaten last Friday by a group of migrants and was declared temporarily incapacitated for twenty-one days, how the situation has improved since you were in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u371	To this concrete question, we need a concrete answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u372	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u373	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] For our part, we consider clause 1e r to be more in the right direction – it will be rare enough during the debate on this bill for me to point out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u374	Let's take a picture!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u375	Yes, if you like, please! Article 1 seeks to create two new multi-year residence permits, one for the beneficiaries of subsidiary protection – this is granted, I would remind you, to persons who are at real risk of being subjected to the death penalty, execution, torture or inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment or are exposed to a serious and individual threat – and the other to those who are stateless. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the NG and FI groups]] However, in our view – in this we agree in every respect with the words of our colleague Jean-Michel Clément – it would have been preferable to align the terms of the cards issued to persons covered by subsidiary protection and stateless persons with those handed over to refugees, so that there were not three different statutes, but only one, in accordance with the rules of the CESEDA. We will no doubt introduce amendments to that effect. The scheme proposed in Article 1 improves the situation but will make the processing of cases more complex by creating three distinct categories, whereas, not only for the beneficiaries of a multiannual card, but also for the services which process applications, it would have been beneficial to introduce only one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u376	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u377	I will intervene in the same direction and in the same spirit. With regard to the first three articles of the bill, we welcome the Government's commitment to administrative simplification and convergence of the rights of protected foreigners. Beyond this technical aspect, the aim is to offer the beneficiaries of subsidiary protection and stateless persons a better protection and, above all, a real moment of respite, at the end of a traumatic and perilous migration route and at the end of a procedure which is still, as we know, too long. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and NG groups]] The fact that this first card is valid for four years instead of just one will really allow them to fit in, work, build a life and give it a new impetus. This is a step forward in the law. This is the positive message we want to send: to show a political will to better welcome foreigners; recognize the enrichment they represent for our culture and our economy; reaffirm France's responsibility for protection, its tradition of welcoming, a tradition of true humanity and true solidarity. We know that it is only together, thanks to our differences, that we make society. Let us honor our duty of welcome and successful integration with dignity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u378	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u379	We will rarely speak to indicate that we will vote on an article. So I hope you're all going to enjoy this moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u380	We don't care!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u381	[[Smile]] Article 1e does indeed go in the right direction, but, of course, it does not go far enough. I would say to the colleagues who have given up tabling amendments, for reasons of their own, that they will be able to make up for this by voting on ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u382	For those who would have regrets!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u383	We must not misunderstand the "unconditional welcome" we mentioned earlier: it is not a question of welcoming the whole earth. What does "unconditional welcome" mean in the mouths of associations? When a person is in distress, delivered to himself, he is greeted first unconditionally, under the Social Security Code, and then administratively, the follow-up to be given. It may make you jump, but it is so, and so much the better. It is fine to talk constantly about the consequences of migration, but it may be necessary, at some point, to mention the causes of migration. As long as we don't, we will have to welcome the people who arrive. On the other hand, let us agree from the outset on the term "air call", because I feel that it will be unbearable to hear it for several days. Recall that, initially, an air call, especially when making fire, is supposed to reoxygenate a device to improve it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u384	Thank you for that explanation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u385	[[Smile on the benches of the FI, LaREM, NG and GDR groups]] In absolute terms, therefore, it is not something negative. Perhaps there would actually be a need for an air call to the right to reoxygenate the thought,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u386	That's what a cryptomarxist says!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u387	Most of all, he's a very good teacher!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u388	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... to go a little further in the direction of humanity and the welcome that characterize the international texts and our founding texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u389	Mr. Louis Aliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u390	[[Smile on the benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] Minister of State, the mere fact that the communists and the "co-communists" are in favour of this article should lead you to extreme caution. This proves that your text is not at all the one you believe. Opening an additional immigration door to beneficiaries of subsidiary protection is not the solution. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Beyond the good feelings, which can be understood in a number of cases, I would be interested to know the action of your ministry and of France concerning certain foreign countries which are friends of France, which persecute their fellow citizens and their families when they return to the country. I am thinking in particular of Turkey with regard to the Kurds, but also to areas of conflict in sub-Saharan Africa, particularly in the Pool region of the Congo. What are you doing against the Congolese government, which persecutes defenceless populations, whose families are sometimes present in France? I wish I knew!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u391	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u392	Article 1e does indeed go in the right direction, but we can see that this new debate on asylum and immigration will in no way solve the major problems that currently exist in a number of cases. On Friday, with the Mayor of Paris, I went to the door of Aubervilliers, where we saw the new camp that is developing. Minister of State, if you don't get these people protected, there will be a new camp of thousands of people in great difficulty at the gates of Paris. So we have to do it. [[Applause on a few benches of the NG and GDR groups]] In order to be able to solve these problems definitively, or in any case lastingly, we know that we must respond to two situations: on the one hand, that of the "dublinés", who are constantly wandering throughout Europe; On the other hand, people who cannot be returned to their country because they are at risk of inhuman and degrading treatment. Both are present in our territory, but they are not issued a residence permit. Your bill does not respond to these two situations. If you solve these two problems, I am sure there will be far fewer people in camps or wandering around our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u393	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u394	Mr Minister of State, I have already had the opportunity to say yesterday all the evil that I thought about dealing with asylum and immigration in the same text. Asylum is in line with our international commitments and has nothing to do with immigration. Above all, asylum cannot be an adjustment variable of your immigration policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u395	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u396	On the other hand, it is worth recalling the number of laws adopted in these areas. The last two, which date back to 2015, have not yet, as you know, revealed their full scope, nor have they been evaluated. We must therefore question the true purpose of this text, which has arrived in haste, without consultation, and which has led to a unanimous rejection by institutions, associations, elected representatives, citizens and intellectuals – we will come back to it during the debate. Finally, we must recall what your action in this area has been for almost a year: the circular asking the prefects to increase their objectives for the removal of those who have been rejected from asylum or who have been "dublinated", the circular aimed at establishing a sorting of foreigners in emergency accommodation centres or the bill adopted on 15 February last, in an unjustifiable haste, to send asylum seekers back better and faster. [[Applause on a few benches of the NG and GDR groups. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group]] Yet, as you yourself recalled in the commission of laws, the candidate Emmanuel Macron had declared during his campaign: "France must live up to its historical tradition of welcoming, while showing itself, under always dignified conditions, inflexible with people who do not meet the conditions of stay in our territory. I note, Minister of State, that you are focusing only on the second part of the sentence of the President of the Republic, in order to violate the right of asylum in France without precedent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u397	And the law of March 7, 2016?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u398	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u399	I would like to say a few words, which do not necessarily relate to clause 1, which is perhaps not the most questionable part of the bill. While the UN, the United Nations, proposes to conclude a global pact on migrants by the end of the year and recalls a number of issues – there are 250 million migrants, including in sub-Saharan Africa, who sometimes destabilize states – I find this bill to be not up to the challenges and challenges we face. The reasons for these migrations are known: political instability, sometimes mafia, economic or climatic reasons. However, we do not take these elements sufficiently into account and we are mixing immigration with the right of asylum, as our colleague Laurence Dumont has just said. France must remain proud of its asylum tradition. It has demonstrated its commitment in the past and must continue to do so, of course, but with clear rules. However, it does not seem to us that the proposed rules are sufficient. We will, of course, go back to Article 3: you are opening up much – far too widely – family reunification, which obviously risks creating an air call. You are pursuing an adversarial policy, practicing, in a way, the famous stop-and-go. In addition, there is a real concern: I would like to reiterate our colleague Eric Ciotti's question about this supposedly – hoping that it is only supposed – regularisation pact, which could affect 40,000 people. In fact, it could be the part of an agreement between a majority and the Government to better pass the pill, if you pass me the expression. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That makes a lot of contradictions! This is what we want to point out this evening, even beyond Article 1st, of the debates which are expected to be very difficult, not just because the opposition is ready to meet certain challenges – development aid, integration – but because the majority itself is not necessarily up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u400	Easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u401	[["Very good! » on various benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that there are three speakers on Rule 1. I will give them the floor before the end of the sitting so that, at the beginning of the evening, we can begin the discussion of the amendments directly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u402	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u403	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] My point of order is based on Rule 54(6), which I would like to point out: "The speaker should not depart from the question, otherwise the President would remind him of it. If he does not refer to that reminder, as well as if a speaker speaks without having obtained permission or claims to continue his intervention after having been invited to conclude, the President may withdraw the floor. We have moved away from the subject. At the moment, we are doing the general discussion again and we are not talking about Article 1. The evidence: Mr. Gosselin himself agreed that his intervention went beyond Article 1er and he commented on Article 3. This is a waste of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u404	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, NG and FI groups]] [[Exclaims on various benches]] My dear colleague, as I have already had the opportunity to say to one of your colleagues, if you wish to lead the debates and chair the House, you must be elected by your group. It is up to the Presidency to judge the relevance of the application of the regulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u405	Which opens the door to favouritism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u406	All you have to do is abide by the rules and everything will be fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u407	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u408	It is precisely on Article 1, which amends the rules on the right of asylum, that I want to intervene. We must first of all recall that in France we can be proud of the right of asylum and the protection our Republic offers to those who, elsewhere, are threatened because of their convictions or the freedom they grant themselves, freedom which they do not have at home and which we can enjoy in our country. We will be all the more proud of this right of asylum as it will focus on the necessary protection of those who defend freedom and are persecuted as such. However, Article 1e reintroduces, with the aim of the right of asylum, a confusion which weakens this right: once the benefit of subsidiary protection under family reunification is extended, the right of asylum and its objectives are necessarily weakened. It is simply incomprehensible, given the role entrusted to it by our law, as well as international law. On the other hand, our colleagues in the majority regularly invoke an argument that cannot be accepted in this debate: that of efficiency. Of course, we must speed up the procedure for examining asylum applications, but we cannot weaken our system, nor our choices, in the name of the efficiency of administrative procedures alone. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Do we want files to be processed faster? So let us give ourselves the means to simplify the procedures, offer the administration the possibility to carry them out, but let us avoid changing the deadlines with the sole aim of not multiplying the submissions of an asylum seeker or a subsidiary protected person in prefecture! The law derives not from the constraints of the administration but from the will of the legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u409	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u410	Minister of State, with this debate on asylum and immigration as your majority sees it, you are so far from the problems of France, so far from the concerns of the French! We have already spent hours in committee, and then in the Chamber, talking about the reception conditions for migrants in France and the rights of migrants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u411	Let's talk about article 1!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u412	I'm coming! We have hardly said anything about the real problem: the number of people we welcome on our soil. However, immigration and integration issues can no longer be dissociated. Article 1 e extends the duration of the residence permit under subsidiary protection from two to four years and extends it to cohabitants, although this concept is unclear and we are unable to prove the existence of this status under law. You have increased the AME envelope, the state's medical aid, by more than 100 million euros. In the text, you are still planning to extend, for minors, the benefit of family reunification to brothers and sisters, in addition to parents. You create an air call. In the figurative sense, ladies and gentlemen, an air call is an event that favours a situation. It must be noted that all the measures in the bill promote the illegal arrival of people on our soil who will try to mislead the asylum process. However, as Mrs Pau-Langevin said, all these people can no longer be accommodated in good conditions. In this text, as in your strategy, there is neither humanity nor firmness. We will therefore fight it from Article 1 because, in order to welcome and integrate people who are in real danger of death in their country, immigration to France must be drastically reduced. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister of State, I would like to ask you one last question, which I hope you will answer. There has been talk of a massive regularization of 10 per cent of illegal immigrants, or 40 000 people. Are you finally going to tell us what's going on?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u413	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u414	Mr Minister of State, I would like to take advantage of the discussion on Article 1 to draw your attention once again to a blind spot in the text, which we have already mentioned in the Committee on Laws. While the issue of isolated foreign minors was urgent, it was almost absent from the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u415	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u416	Why don't we talk a little bit about article one?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u417	Needless to remind you: the number of foreign minors, also known as unaccompanied minors, has exploded. Last year, almost 15,000 children were placed on child welfare, an increase of almost 85 per cent in one year. Their reception, entrusted to the departments, is extremely problematic, because it is very costly for these local authorities, who have already suffered for five years a budgetary suffocation decided by the socialist government. At a cost of €50000 per year per person, the annual cost of this item for the departments amounts to more than €1 billion for social assistance for children. In Haute-Savoie, 494 unaccompanied minors were taken over by the department. Every effort has been made to accommodate them, including the creation of additional places in social children's homes, at an annual cost of €8.4 million. Mr Minister of State, I know that negotiations are under way between your ministry and ADF, the Assembly of the French Departments, so that the State assumes its share of responsibility for this responsibility. However, given the urgency of the situation, I think we need to look more closely at the thorny question of the assessment of the majority, which can vary greatly from one department to another. In Haute-Savoie, the typology of unaccompanied minors hardly changes. The majority of the young people we welcome say they are between 16 and 17 years of age. Some arrive from border departments where they have been assessed as major, and they try their luck in another territory. In the face of these misappropriation of the law, it is urgent to establish a national frame of reference for age verification, by requiring identity documents but also by strengthening bone tests. The Union of Internal Security Officers, one of the main unions of police officers, recalled that the channels of false minors are developing. According to law enforcement officials, this phenomenon paralyses the effective management of real isolated miners. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and NG groups]] Minister of State, it is more urgent than ever to act. For years, departments have alerted the State to the difficult management of isolated foreign minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u418	Stop! You've been talking for five minutes! We're not going to go back to the general discussion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u419	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] No harmonisation is planned in the territories. The situation is explosive. In the face of this real time bomb, we are counting on your intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u420	Mr Eric Diard has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u421	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Madam President, I would simply remind our colleagues that you are here to conduct the debates. We do not need deputies who exercise a police of thought!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u422	Ladies and gentlemen, before we adjourn the sitting, I would like to point out that we are only at the beginning of the discussion of the text. I invite everyone rightly to keep and to remain calm.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u423	And to respect his time of speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u424	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] If I cut off all those who allow themselves digressions and get out of the subject, those who demand it would risk being the first victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u425	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1192.u426	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the bill for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration. The meeting is adjourned.
