ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft amending finance law for 2018 (No. 1371, 1395).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u3	I come back to you with an amending finance bill – PLFR – which has the enormous advantage of being in line with the Government's promise. In fact, last year, I made a commitment before you not to make a decree in advance – that will now be the norm – and not to provide for any tax measures in the PLFR, which had never happened since the adoption of the Organic Law on Finance Laws – LOLF. We want to submit to Parliament for approval sincere budget envelopes that respect the appropriations entered in the finance law that you voted for. As a result, we are returning to sounder budgetary management, as evidenced by the reduction in the reserve rate from 8 per cent to 3 per cent. I have reserved for the National Assembly the beginning of the news: as it is, I have accepted the thawing of EUR 2 billion in appropriations, in accordance with the discussions in committee and between ministers. This decision is important for the proper management of our public finances and our departments. The technical choice of the new PLFR format is put at the service of a political ambition: to enable Parliament to improve its rights. I confess that I did not understand the debates in the Committee on Finance. Together with the Chairs of the Finance Committees of the Assembly and the Senate, and the two rapporteurs general, we decided that the end-of-management budget collective could no longer remain the vehicle that it had become, mixing forgotten tax measures and articles that had not found their place in the finance bill – PLF. The format we propose will strengthen the scope of parliamentary authorization. The PLFR will no longer be used to repeat the debates of the PLF or PLFSS – a bill to finance social security. I will therefore give an unfavorable opinion on the whole of the amendments providing for changes in taxation. It does not seem normal to me to use the end-of-management PLFR as a government broom car – mea culpa! – or Parliament. I shall therefore refuse to enter into this debate which does not correspond to the spirit of the exercise, nor to the wishes of many parliamentarians, such as Mr de Courson, who will join us later, or Mr Carrez. He had the opportunity to point out several times – notably on 5 December 2016, during the previous legislature – that these too complete PLFRs clearly reflected sub-budgetings, making it necessary to issue decrees in advance too important. Even under the majority he supported, in 2004, when he was rapporteur-general, Mr Carrez referred to this as a classic way to avoid seeking parliamentary authorisation, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. As chairman of the Finance Committee, he denounced the "faith" – I quote – significant shortcomings in the initial budget as reflected in the advance decree presented by the Government. Mr de Courson, for his part, uses even harder words to describe this somewhat special way of designing end-of-management texts; We'll probably have a chance to get back. Finally, the Conference of the Presidents of the Senate, and I thank him for that, noted that the Government has made an effort to ensure that there is no tax debate in a moment that is not conducive to an intelligent and constructive exchange. As for the deadline for Members to table amendments, reduced to a few hours, I note that they have not been prevented from doing so: 482 amendments have been tabled, which promises a late end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u4	These are real wrong amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u5	Many of these amendments are tax-related and have no place in this text. On the other hand, those dealing with the budgetary aspect will give us an opportunity to debate. To show that this bill is only a very simple addition to the finance bill and that it reflects the budgetary sincerity to which we have committed ourselves, I would like to confirm the trajectory of the Public Accounts Adjustment. The Government has not lied in its forecasts: for example, we have seen an improvement in the government deficit of 1.3 billion, from €81.3 billion to €80 billion. The plan adopted by the Government for the end of management allows us to spend 600 million less than planned, in accordance with the target set. You can therefore see, Mr rapporteur-general, that we have fulfilled the commitments we made before you. The appropriations relate to the external and internal operations of the Ministry of Armed Forces – EUR 400 million – the overexpenditure in the staff expenditure of certain ministries, relating to Title II – 300 million, this is one of the negative elements that remain – the slight surplus of the activity premium – 200 million – the small increase in the allocation of asylum seekers – 100 million – the personal housing aid – 100 million – and the exemptions on the overseas perimeter – also 100 million. I would remind you that these openings will be fully managed by cancellations due to competition, in accordance with the principle of self-assurance that you are familiar with. I would also like to point out that the growth forecast for this PLFR – 1.7% for 2018 – does not contradict the PLF for 2019. This issue has been the subject of extensive debate during the review of the PLF last year as well as this year. The government deficit is maintained at -2.6% of GDP. The structural balance is unchanged, at -2.2% of GDP, as is structural adjustment. The public expenditure rate remains at 54.6 per cent of GDP. The national health insurance expenditure target – ONDAM – will be met at 2.3%. Finally, revenue developments bring the mandatory levy rate, as expected, to 45% of GDP in 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bourlanges also applauds]] Far from being an ad hoc text, this PLFR, which lacks any discussion of end-of-management or measures that could not be proposed within the framework of the PLF, supports on the contrary the arguments of the Government when it tells you to present a sincere budget. This development shows that the Government has learned from 2017 and that it respects the principle of parliamentary authorization. It gives hope for a better future, where the PLF would represent the time for fiscal and budgetary discussion, while the PLFR, except in the event of a major event affecting our nation, would only be an opportunity to verify that the Government had not lied to the National Assembly and the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u6	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u7	This amending finance bill is both traditional and innovative. It is traditional at the end of the year to adjust the budget estimates according to the data found in progress. This allows Parliament to make an assessment and to be fully informed about the budget data for the current fiscal year, without waiting for the settlement law. This year, we can see that improving our public finances is faster than expected. The budget deficit is updated to €80 billion, up $5.7 billion from the original finance law. The expenditure is held, with a net appropriation of only $80 million from the general budget. The government deficit will be reduced to 2.6 per cent of GDP, while the original Finance Act and the Public Finance Programming Act provided for 2.8 per cent. In summary, the recovery of our public accounts continues during the 2018 financial year with a sustainable return below the 3% government deficit mark, as evidenced by France's exit from the excessive deficit procedure. This is the main political message of this collective: while many doubted it last year, the public deficit continues to fall and falls below the 3% of GDP mark. This finance bill is also innovative. For the first time since 1985, it prevents an advance order from being made to make budgetary adjustments in progress or at the end of management, i.e. without parliamentary authorization. This is a considerable step forward for the rights of Parliament: rather than being subject to a simple advisory opinion, the Government's copy must indeed obtain the consent of Parliament. To this end, the PLFR is limited to budgetary aspects and does not contain any tax provisions. I welcome this; I had asked, like many of you, on all benches, and many of my predecessors. The calendar is tightened, but it remains perfectly compatible with the purpose of the text. The nine sections of the bill contain either budgetary adjustments or provisions that must, in a mandatory manner, be included in a finance law under the rules established by the LOLF. Unlike previous years, there is no complex provision that requires time to analyze. Even if I may regret, with you, that we did not have more time to examine it, I therefore support without a state of soul and with conviction, on the substance, this refocusing of the end-of-year PLFR. This development is also in line with the reform of the financial law review procedures, the aim of which was to achieve better time management and better organization of parliamentary discussion. The first two stages of this reform have been implemented this year, on an ongoing basis, pending the revision of the Constitution and the LOLF. The first stage was carried out at the initiative of the Finance Committee of the National Assembly, with the establishment of the spring evaluation. We strengthened the review of the settlement legislation to focus on the actual results of public policies, which we did not have time to talk about in the fall. Now, in the spring, we evaluate; in the autumn, we decide for the coming year. Previously, we were trying to do both at the same time, which was not rational. The second stage of the reform is carried out at the initiative of the Government with the refocusing of the PLFR on budgetary provisions only. This change makes it possible to make a clear distinction between the original finance bill, which covers fiscal policy and fiscal measures for the coming year, and the PLFR, which focuses on the end-of-management budget adjustment. This clarification between the PLF and the PLFR at the end of the year, which was called for by the working group on budgetary reform convened by our committee, makes it possible to improve the readability of the autumn budget debates. Over the years, the end-of-year collective had in fact become at best a finance bill bis, a catch-up PLF, at worst the spillover of tax measures that had not been prepared or arbitrated in sufficient time to be included in the PLF, out of Bercy's closets. Parliament then had only 10 days to examine very complex tax arrangements. Thus, gradually, the PLFR had become the symbol of the wrong legislation, because examined in time incompatible with serious work – a text heavy with ambiguous provisions, much of the risk of litigation. I would like everyone to be aware that the budgetary debate is taking place this year under conditions that are objectively much more respectful of Parliament. Previously, we discussed tax measures in two separate texts. We had very little time to deal with those of the PLFR, and the budgetary adjustments were made through an advance order on which we could only give an advisory opinion. From this year onwards, the Government has had to present all the tax measures in the PLF, which gives us more time to examine them and allows us to decide on the budgetary adjustments, or even to amend them in the context of a refocused PLF. I hope that this reform will succeed. This means promulgating the PLFR at the very beginning of December, in order to guarantee the December pay, the pre-liquidation of which takes place at the beginning of the month. We must therefore compel ourselves to collective discipline: the Government must fulfil its commitment to limit the content of the PLFR to budgetary aspects and refrain from tabling extra-budgetary amendments; As for parliamentarians, they must reserve their tax amendments to the PLF, under discussion at the same time. I will therefore systematically give an unfavorable opinion, with a brief argument, to all the amendments that fall within the scope of the PLF. Many have already been seen in the debate on the first part, or in the committee on the second part. Others, including some of the non-attached articles, will be in session on the second part. For these reasons, the tax amendments which some groups have submitted in large numbers seem to me to demonstrate a desire to slow down the discussion or even represent a form of obstruction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u8	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u9	I also wonder about their constitutionality. Of course, the question has never been put so directly to the Constitutional Council, since this is the first time that Parliament has discussed a PLFR with only budgetary provisions. But we can legitimately question whether tax amendments would not be analysed by the Council as horsemen, since they are aimed at a bill that does not contain a tax provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u11	It is true that the deadline for tabling amendments was very short – I think that my teams and I are in the best position to testify. However, in view of the limited purpose of this PLFR, the right of amendment guaranteed by our Constitution has in this case been respected. This is proof of the number of amendments that have been tabled. On the other hand, I will develop a longer and more comprehensive argument on the amendments in relation to the text, i.e. those relating to the very articles of the PLFR or to the amounts of appropriations. I also observe that some opposition groups, in particular La France insoumée, which I thank, have endeavoured to table exclusively amendments which are directly related to the subject matter of the text. Of course, they are almost one by one opposed to all the cancellations of appropriations, but it will be my role as rapporteur-general to respond to each of these amendments. Apart from the "Repayments and Discounts" mission, the PLFR makes EUR 2.1 billion of movements, both in openings and cancellations of payment appropriations. These movements are rather below average: year-end amending finance laws averaged €2.9 billion in openings and €2.7 billion in cancellations over the period 2007-2017. In committee, we have addressed the question of the Defence Mission: the PLFR provides for an appropriation of 404 million on the "Preparation and Use of Forces" programme to finance the additional costs of external operations – OPEX – and internal missions – MISSINT – and a symmetrical cancellation of 404 million on the other programmes of the Mission, including 319 million on the "Equipment of Forces" programme. This means that the additional costs of OPEX and MISSINT will be funded within the Defence Mission. Minister, I have no doubt that you will explain this dual movement and its link with the military programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u13	The balance of appropriations opened and cancelled amounts to EUR 80 million. The PLFR aims to balance appropriations openings and cancellations in order to limit the impact on the balance of the general state budget: this approach had not been adopted since the 2007 and 2008 amending financial laws. In the context of this renovated PLFR, we must focus on the core of the subject. I do not wish to avoid the debate, but I would like it to deal with the content and purpose of this amending finance bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister, you can count on my full support, both in the form and in the substance of this PLFR. I call on everyone to take a responsible attitude, like the Committee on Finance, and to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u14	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u15	I take note of the willingness of the Government, which I approve, to bring together all the fiscal arrangements and appropriations in the finance bill for the coming year, and to present in this amending finance bill all the correction, adjustment and adjustment measures for the current year. We had argued in favour of this distribution – Gilles Carrez, in particular, did so with great talent – when we were in power: you put it into practice, and that's very good. In a way, indeed, the abuse of the procedure of advance decrees, which is a derogatory procedure, weakens the scope of parliamentary authorization. [[Smile]] Now that I have said good things about this text, I will say bad things, if I may.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u16	You don't have to!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u17	Yes, it's kind of a duty of balance! The real problem, in fact, lies in the time that Parliament, and therefore parliamentarians, have to examine these texts. I would remind you that the LOLF imposes a period of one week to obtain Parliament's opinion on the Government's advance orders. It is therefore a paradox that we have had far less than a week to examine this PLFR! It is understandable that some of our colleagues, particularly those from the opposition, are at least uncomfortable to examine this text in committee on Friday, and it is now Monday. The opposition has rights, which must be respected; For this purpose, the majority has duties, including giving it time to examine the texts. Moreover, it is not for the majority to say whether or not to amend a text: it is for parliamentarians to do so! I was the minister of the budget before you, and I know that no government has a strong desire to see its texts amended. Every government thinks it's alpha and omega, and knows exactly what to do. But it is the role of the opposition to seize the opportunities it encounters. A finance bill, for example, offers many opportunities. See what happened about fuel prices: the debate at the PLF was important. Opposition Members have tabled an amendment to freeze the carbon tax trajectory. Last year we proposed another path for energy taxation. But this year, all of a sudden, this debate came out of the Chamber: the public has seized it with great force, as we see this week. Thus, the review of the PLFR makes it possible, in a way, to update the debates. A month after the start of the PLF review for the coming year, some of them had time to crystallize in the French opinion. I repeat: the review of the PLFR offers, from this point of view, a useful time for discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u18	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u19	I am well aware that the Government still finds that Parliament is too long, but it must be remembered that the Government decides alone, while Parliament, where all political sensitivities are represented, must debate. It obviously takes more time, but there is no democracy without debate! That is why many amendments have been tabled on this text. Of course, many of them are not really related to this PLFR, but it simply comes from a lack of time. On the merits, the High Council of Public Finance considered that the macroeconomic logic of the 2018 Finance Bill is respected. In a few respects, the Government has met its commitments well. However, several questions arise. First of all, expenditure has increased little in volume; On the other hand, they rose sharply due to high inflation. However, in periods of high inflation, given the automatic drift of expenditure in value terms, it is easier to keep expenditure in volume: this masks the real increase in expenditure. Beyond the effects of inflation, 2018 is disappointing. We regretted his lack of ambition at the time, and we continue to regret it. The public balance improved by only 0.1 points between 2017 and 2018, i.e. nothing at all, while France experienced a period of strong growth. The context is very different from that experienced by Nicolas Sarkozy, when the French economy, in the context of a global recession, was itself in recession, and that experienced by François Hollande, marked by the end of the financial crisis and by new crises, especially those of the euro, which obscured the prospects for growth. We have now entered a favorable cycle, but you are not taking advantage of it. The structural effort is even weaker as the context is more favourable: it was zero in 2018. France is therefore not respecting its international commitments, particularly those of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance within Economic and Monetary Union (ETUC), which is quite worrying. I would remind you that we have committed ourselves to reducing our structural deficit by at least 0.5 percentage points per year in order to achieve our medium-term objective. This rule, in addition to limiting the deficit to 3% of GDP, is intended to regulate the increase in debt. However, the prospect of a return to balance is constantly being rejected by the Government, and this was again the case in 2018. Your forecasts are therefore not in line with the TSCG. I believe that France should respect the treaties it has signed: if we want to call into question this or that objective, then we must do so explicitly at the level of the European Union, and not act unilaterally by relying on the benevolence of the European Commission. Because we are not just any country but France, we must pay special attention to this. You have the opportunity to comply with the provisions of the TSCG, but you do not respect them: we regret it. I'm coming to the OPEX. It is true that you are making an effort to make their budgeting more sincere: we recognize it, and François Cornut-Gentille, present here, will probably say it again. You are increasing the budget of the Defence Mission as it moves forward to take into account the amount of the OPEX: this is also what we did in our time, albeit less important. The gap between the actual cost of OPEX and the internal tasks of the Ministry of Armed Forces and the amounts provided for in the Financial Act is narrowing. However, there is a gap of EUR 404 million, which will not be covered by interministerial solidarity, as was the case before. Why is that? Not only do you not respect the treaties, as I have shown, but you also do not respect the law of military programming: it is another matter of concern for us. In short, you cancel a little more than 300 million euros of appropriations on the current weapons programmes. I don't think that's a good thing. In fact, don't you take with one hand what you gave with the other? Of course, you have increased the budget appropriations of the armies, in accordance with the military programming law, which aims to reach the level of 2% of GDP. But is this increase very real, if you charge from these appropriations expenses which were previously based on other appropriations, under ministerial solidarity? That's a serious question! To sum up perhaps a bit caricatural, the more you ask the armies, the less you equip them. You will doubtless contest this way of looking at things, but in any case, we are not in favour of this method, which results in the army finding itself with less funds available than before. Last point: fuels. This is both a political and a technical issue, as the oppositions revealed in the debate on the PLF. I have a question to ask the Government and the majority on this subject: is the increase in energy taxation intended to compensate for the reduction in the housing tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u20	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u21	This is not your level, Mr. Chairman of the Commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u22	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] We have been asking this question for several weeks, with no answer. The amounts are the same: admit it's disturbing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u23	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u24	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Do you do numbering now, Mr. Woerth?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u25	I insist: do you compensate for the drop in the housing tax by increasing fuel levies? I'm sure you're going to tell me that not, but from year to year, throughout the two trajectories – the reduction in the housing tax and the reduction in fuel taxes – the amounts are surprisingly similar. In the end, do you charge drivers today what tenant taxpayers will no longer pay tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u26	You're going astray!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, this PLFR demonstrates an effort of sincerity and an effort to clarify the division of roles between PLFR and PLF. However, you do not make any effort to clarify your policies: this is what the French are asking for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u28	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject it in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u29	Before I get to the heart of the matter, I would like to start with a positive note, welcoming the effort of the Government this year to reduce the amount of the amending finance bill. Contrary to the customary practice in previous years, this PLFR has not become a catch-up law for next year's finance bill, the examination of which is concurrent. Without any tax measures, this "light" PLFR has the merit of trying to meet its primary purpose, that is to adjust the balance of the original finance law to keep the forecast of the implementation of the state budget. It is therefore not a finance bill bis, as the Chairman of the Finance Committee has pointed out. We are all happy about that, Minister. On the other hand, and that is a great pity, this commendable effort is totally undermined by an absolutely unacceptable examination of the burden. Thus, while the examination of the draft finance law in committee and the examination of non-attached articles already overlaps, the PLFR was introduced by the Government last Wednesday, 7 November, at 17:15. The examination in committee was scheduled for Friday 9, and the deadline for tabling amendments initially set at 15.00 a.m. the previous day, leaving us barely twenty-two hours to read the text, analyze it and then work on it so that we could table our amendments for the committee... Finally, the deadline for filing was extended to 20 hours, leaving us a few extra hours. As for the consideration of the PLFR in a public sitting, the problem is the same since the deadline for tabling amendments was set at seventeen hours on Saturday, 10 November, just over twenty-four hours after its consideration in committee. How can we accept deadlines for tabling amendments of 24 hours in committee and 48 hours before the sitting, when there is actually no urgency? Minister, it's never been seen before! How do you want Members to have time to take up the text, to do a good job and to propose amendments? If I do not doubt for a moment the willingness of my colleagues to carry out their mission with the utmost intellectual rigour, then they should be given the means to do so! The forced marching parliamentary work imposed on us is not only a lack of respect for Parliament, but also for the nation of which it is the emanation. The PLFR is indeed an essential text which concerns all our citizens. The French have the right to demand that their representatives, that we are, be able to control government action in the serenity indispensable for the functioning of any democracy. Three days to read the text, draft, table and consider the amendments is really not serious! For yes, this text, even though it does not include many articles, nine in total, addresses several subjects worth discussing. The agenda imposed by the Government completely undermines the rights of the opposition, and the verticality that the majority wants to impose on us is anti-democratic. You said in your opening remarks that you did not understand the debate that had taken place on this PLFR: I think you were referring to the reaction of the opposition members in the Finance Committee. What is happening deserves to be retained in order to prevent it from happening again. Let us turn now to the presentation that the Government has declined. How can we understand that neither of the two ministers in charge of this text has deigned to go before the Finance Committee last Wednesday?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u30	But there was a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u31	Neither Minister Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy and Finance, nor yourself, Minister of Action and Public Accounts, took the time to travel to present us with the amending finance bill for 2018 and answer our questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u32	It is as if I were blaming Mr Jacob for not defending this rejection motion himself!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u33	This is contempt and disrespect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u34	You're the one who's contemptuous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u35	These formal, but no less essential, points alone would justify this motion of rejection. But I now turn to the substance of the debate. Since the arrival in power of President Emmanuel Macron, France has been bogged down in a particularly worrying economic decline. One by one, the warning signals multiply. Whether it is the erosion of economic growth, the uninterrupted inflation of public debt...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u36	It was the PLFR of two years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u37	... or the dramatic deterioration of our trade deficit, the indicators are unanimous in demonstrating the unrelenting failure of the economic policy chosen by the Government. After a first budget responsible for a €4.5 billion deterioration in the purchasing power of the French, the President of the Republic should have sounded the alarm. Yet, as paralysed by the urgency of the situation, the Government has persevered in a deadly fiscal policy. The decline in our country's economic growth is one of the most striking indicators of this inexorable diversion. In its opinion of 19 September on the PLF for 2019, the High Council for Public Finance had found credible the government's forecast of real GDP growth of 1.7 per cent. At the time, this figure was already showing a significant slowdown: 0.6 percentage points less than the 2.3% growth recorded for 2017. However, in its opinion of 31 October on the draft amending finance law, within a few weeks, the High Council has therefore revised this forecast downwards: in view of the most recent information, including the third quarter national accounts published by INSEE, this independent body now estimates that a growth of 1.6% is more likely. While the European Commission forecasts an average growth of 2.1% for the euro area, how can we not worry about this dreadful economic fall in France compared to its neighbours? With regard to the structural deficit, the observation is equally alarming: according to the High Council for Public Finance, after having been negative in 2017, France's structural effort will be virtually zero in 2018, even though the road ahead in order to meet the medium-term objective is important. Thus, the structural effort will not exceed 0.1 percentage points of GDP in 2018 and 0.3 percentage points in 2019, far from the minimum effort of 0.5 percentage points required by Brussels. This government's inability to tighten its belt by making drastic cuts in public spending explains the upsurge in a structural deficit that is expected to reach 2.6% in 2018 and 2.8% in 2019. We are still as close to 3%, and this is the first time that the deficit has increased in nearly 20 years. Next year, the Government's budgetary burden will increase the French government's deficit by €13 billion, bringing it to a record high of €98.7 billion. Yet, ignoring the evidence, the Government continues to dilapidate the money of the French, in the name of a demagogic and unreasonable policy. With public debt peaking at 98.6% of GDP in 2019, the two and a half years of Emmanuel Macron's presidency will mark a sharp increase of 175 billion euros in public debt. Untiringly, public spending continues to grow: after an increase of 20 billion in 2018, it will increase, the Chairman of the Finance Committee reminded him, by about 25 billion in 2019, i.e. by 0.6% in volume and 1.9% in value. If we want to get France out of the rut, it is an effort to cut public spending by EUR 20 billion that should be imposed on all of us. But the government has still not presented any detailed savings plan! Unfortunately, the failure of growth and the government's lack of confidence are not the only shaded areas that taunt the beginning of this quinquennium. Indeed, while the Prime Minister had just paid tribute to the soldiers who had fallen into the field of honour during the Great War, he was preparing a very dirty blow against the army in the context of this bill on amending finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u38	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u39	Due to the additional, yet predictable, cost of external operations that have largely exceeded the envelope originally provided for under the "Defence" mission, the Government has decided to cancel more than €404 million of the military budget appropriations in this amending finance bill. If the Military Programming Act 2014-2019 had been complied with, the additional costs should have been covered by inter-ministerial funding. The Government, with this unbearable plank, has been violating a practice that has been in force for more than ten years, with the aim of avoiding the use of military equipment. This initiative is all the more unacceptable as the new military programming law 2019-2025, passed just a few months ago, reaffirms the principle of interdepartmental funding beyond the initial staffing. It is the word of the State that is called into question in this PLFR. In total contradiction with the commitment of the President of the Republic as the head of the armed forces, a commitment enshrined in the law of military programming, this denial is a tremendous blow of massacred on the head of the forces in charge of the defence of our fellow citizens. Not to mention that with 3% of equipment credits written off, it is the indispensable modernization of the armies that is at risk. The members of the Republican Group have therefore tabled an amendment, which will be supported by François Cornut-Gentille, aimed at restoring the cancelled appropriations of the "Defence" mission, in the name of compliance with Article 4 of the military programming law. Finally, with regard to the situation of the 30,000 reservists of the national gendarmerie sent to the field since September 2018, I regret that this draft law on amending finance does not provide for an increase in the appropriations necessary to finance this new wage bill. It is not permissible for women and men who have decided to give their time in order to meet the increasing needs of the gendarmerie to receive their balances only in 2019, more than four months late. The "Security" Mission's 152 program could, however, have corrected the situation for payment of these balances to take place in 2018. At the end of this non-exhaustive review of the many mistakes made by the Government, it seems to me important to address the issue of solutions. For if France is sick, remedies exist. Provided you have the courage to administer them... It is possible to break the vicious circle of dropping out and to maintain our position among the major European powers. In order to boost French growth and purchasing power, the consolidation of public spending is an indispensable step. Indeed, only a massive tax relief that crushes our businesses today will be able to restore colors to the living forces of our country. That is why the Republicans propose 20 billion budget savings, to put an end to the excess of public spending. It is an indispensable prerequisite to clean up our public accounts and give us room for manoeuvre so that we can then lower taxes. Without a reduction in spending, all promises of tax cuts are illusions. The French know that. They will have confirmed this with the abolition of the housing tax, which will eventually be replaced by taxation at national level – the chairman of the Finance Committee stressed the importance of the transfers that occur in your budget texts. Moreover, as our country's external deficit explodes, reaching €62.7 billion in 2018, the removal of the reduced rate of ICTPE – internal consumption tax on energy products – is an incomprehensible measure, leading to a tax increase of almost €1 billion for entire sectors of our economy. Eliminating production taxes, increasing the reduction in corporate taxes, further challenging overtime, reducing the burden on wages, for example up to three SMICs: these are the recommendations of the Republicans Group to the attention of a majority who have already wasted too much time. In order to reduce the public deficit, public expenditure must be affected, and the trade deficit must be reduced, the competitiveness of enterprises must be affected. In general, systematic confiscation must cease. And it is not the extra cost caused by the introduction of the levy at source or the constraints associated with the new organization of the patent regulation that will allow us to avoid cataclysm. It would be the Government's responsibility to put an end to the tax machining of certain classes of people who are losing their purchasing power. Of course, it promises a reduction in household taxes of 6 billion euros: but in reality, it does the calculations that arrange it! If we include, on the one hand, reductions in social benefits, i.e. the quasi-freezing of pensions, family benefits and LPOs – personalized housing subsidies – and, on the other hand, increases in contributions – AGIRC and ARRCO for example – and income tax – the French will actually lose 300 million euros! Not to mention the increase in taxes on road fuels, which will increase by €3.7 billion including VAT. This is a significant increase since in five years households and businesses will have paid about 46 billion more. On the contrary, the return to the disindexation of pensions, family allowances and LPAs, the reduction of energy taxation and the reduction of income tax – which would neutralise the effects of the source levy on purchasing power – are easy remedies to implement and would restore air to French people today asphyxiated. Finally, I would like to conclude by stressing the unprecedented and absolutely unbearable tax crackdown on all French people who have to use their cars. Indeed, under the guise of convergence of gasoline and diesel taxation, the Government has organized an endless race to raise taxes on all fuels. Because there were two solutions, to ensure convergence: to reduce the highest rate or to increase the lowest rate. Now the two trajectories are ascending! As the level of fuel taxes peaks, you plan to increase them again and again, in January 2019, then in January 2020, then in 2021, and again in 2022. Such punitive taxation is inconceivable in the context of a general decline in purchasing power. Because if you are not responsible for the increases in the price of the barrel, you have a duty to suspend this increase in taxes when the price of oil goes up. You could have accepted our proposal, as part of the PLF, to take a break in 2019 on fuel taxes. You cannot, as you do, take the argument of the energy transition to justify these taxes while you only return to the energy transition of less than 20% of their product. These are, in fact, pure performance measures aimed at feeding the funds of a state that is unable to reduce its expenditure today. So an amendment by the Republicans Group will propose to freeze the increases in fuel taxes in order to stop this huge exercise to reduce the purchasing power of our compatriots. If the Republican Group regrets that its arguments have not been heard more by the majority in the debate on the finance bill, I still have hope – always! – that the Government regains its sense of responsibility and abandons a policy of demagogic and dangerous transfers in favour of a genuine economic rescue plan for our country. These are the various substantive elements that lead us to move this motion. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you have understood, both in terms of form and substance, the arguments raised justify this motion of rejection tabled by the Republican Group. Its adoption would allow us to resume consideration of the bill under much more serene conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u40	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u41	We come to the explanations of vote. The floor is for Mr Philippe Vigier, for the Libertés et territoires group, for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u42	It is not my practice to vote on the motions for rejection, but we will vote on it, and for quite simple reasons, which have been very well mentioned by Véronique Louwagie. Firstly, as I will say in my speech earlier, the conditions under which we are required to legislate are, in my view, not very serious. The examination of this text is almost simultaneous with that of other budget texts. The television cameras are running the House, and you can imagine that our compatriots are wondering where the Members are! Secondly, and more importantly, I would have liked, Mr.Minister, to have you shed some light on the changes in strategy that have taken place with regard to the military programming law. When a law is passed, I think it is quite essential to respect it. We planned to be able, until 2020, to eventually seek funding from the inter-ministerial departments for OPEX. This is no longer the case. What is the reason for this change in strategy? Thirdly, with regard to environmental taxation, how is it that part of the budget allocated to it is allocated to the general budget?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u43	And vice versa.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u44	We should be enlightened: it seems to me important to go to the bottom of things and tell us what's going on ahead, so that we can know what's going on. Finally, as I understand it, a meeting took place this morning in Matignon to help our compatriots who are struggling to cope with the increase in fuel prices: perhaps you could enlighten us, minister? This motion for a preliminary referral...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u45	Rejection!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u46	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This motion for rejection will at least allow, I hope, to go into these matters. These are the reasons why, of course, I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u47	The next speaker is Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u48	I must confess, Mrs Louwagie, that I have a little difficulty in understanding your reasoning. You are putting forward a motion of rejection in advance, that is, you partially reject what you have just, in part, welcomed when you were in the gallery. You first welcomed, on the form, the lenient and innovative nature of this amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u49	But not that of his exam schedule!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u50	The same cannot be said of your group: you have tabled 229 amendments proposing to amend the general tax code. So you did not respect what we collectively said in return. I regret that. In any case, you welcomed the Government's willingness to make a bill on amending the law. You also welcomed, on the merits – this observation also applies to the Chairman of the Finance Committee – the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance, which indeed considers the landing of this amending finance bill for 2018 to be plausible. I insist: it is indeed the first year since 1985 that there will be no decrees in advance – a fairly easy time to measure: it is the year of my birth, so you can get an idea! It has also been a long time since we met the European commitment to keep our government deficit below 3%. If we also maintain it at this level in 2019, it will be the first time in 20 years that this criterion will be met three years in a row. Your reasoning is therefore not consistent, dear colleague, since in the end you welcome substance as a form but that you propose this motion of rejection beforehand. You have mentioned – and this is your argument, therefore, to defend it – the deadline for tabling amendments, both in committee and in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u51	Yes: the calendar.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u52	In committee, we had this debate. Together with my colleagues, we have, in part, heard your arguments and proposed that the deadline for filing be changed, which has led to later work – and I thank them for this – on the directors of the Finance Committee. We did so precisely because we had heard your remarks: it is therefore a bit disappointing to discover this motion for prior rejection when we took into account your first request, especially since the setting of deadlines for tabling amendments is not by the Government but rather by that of the Chairman of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u53	Dear colleague, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u54	In the end, you lack a little argument. In substance, you are telling us that you want to debate, in particular the appropriations of the gendarmerie and the army, but that does not prevent you from wanting a motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u55	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u56	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] So I do not see when we can debate together, if you want this rejection. Of course, we will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u57	Mrs Valérie Rabault, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u58	We will also vote on this motion to reject it beforehand. The conditions under which this amending finance bill is examined are unprecedented.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u59	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u60	By consulting the review dates of last year's budget collective, but also several years earlier, it appeared to me that at least three weeks separated his presentation in Council of Ministers from his examination in public session. Such a period of time allowed Members to carry out a real analysis. This year, this is not the case, since you want everything to be done in three days.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u61	It's not the same text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u62	Another feature of this amending finance bill is that there will be no solemn vote. You are going to organise a vote in catini, between four and five in the morning, which seems to us to be extremely detrimental to the democratic exercise that must be carried out in our Parliament. For all these reasons, without going back to the substance, since I will have the opportunity to do so earlier, we will vote in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u63	The next speaker is Mr Gilles Carrez, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u64	Véronique Louwagie was very intellectually honest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u65	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u66	Indeed, she wished to welcome the progress of this amending finance bill, which is quite real: I will return to that on my part just now. She also stressed that the deadlines in which we are working are not acceptable. A comparison: you flatter yourself, minister, to replace the advance orders with this amending finance bill, and you are right. Except that when we examine an advance order, we have a period of one week!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u68	In this case, we have not even had such a delay: that is really the reason why the motion to refer to committee is entirely justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u69	It's a motion of rejection!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u70	Pre-rejection, I'm sorry. In any event, it is clear, as Valérie Rabault said at the moment, that this text, even if it is limited, and we welcome it, to budgetary provisions, translates into very important and very heavy choices – we will talk earlier about the OPEXs, or the special account "Energy Transition" – and involves important redeployments, both in cancellation and in appropriations, which I believe would require a good week of examination. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As this week of review did not take place, for procedural reasons, we cannot do anything else – and that is unfortunate, because on the merits, the bill has positive things – but to defend this motion of prior rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u71	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, the Republicans have a request for a public vote before me. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Lise Magnier, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u72	I will try not to be too long, because I obviously share many of the arguments used by Véronique Louwagie on the conditions under which we had to examine this text. We consider them to be evidence of a real contempt for Parliament: three days to examine a finance law, even if it is only amending and contains only nine articles! Very honestly, knowing that we are also discussing the 2019 Finance Bill both in the Finance Committee and in the public sitting, I think, minister, that you are aware that working under such conditions can cause us grief. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] However, I do not think it necessary to vote on a motion to reject it beforehand: I am rather in favour of the motion to refer it back to committee. That is why I will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u73	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u74	The Communist Group will vote on this motion of rejection. Three elements explain this vote. The first one converges with an advanced argument, as well as with many interventions on these benches: it is due to the timetable of instruction of this amending finance bill for 2018, which is unbearable for national representation. For us, this is in the midst of the constitutional reform that you are going to bring back to us at the beginning of 2019. That's our first argument. The second is far further from the right's grounds for rejecting this text. As far as we are concerned, this PLFR confirms the prolongation of taxation, and the consequences accompanying it, favourable to the rich, to the detriment of the employees. Such taxation, moreover, corresponds, and you have repeated it, to the liberal instructions of Brussels. Last argument: we consider that the budgetary movements we observe in this collective reinforce and even aggravate your austerity policy. For all these reasons, which I shall return to when I present the motion to refer to committee, we will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u75	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, what we are hearing here is still very surprising. What is a good law of amending finances?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u77	The one that doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u78	Yes, a law that doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u79	That's for sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u80	In reality, the amending finance bill is simply the sanction of errors in forecasting and analysis, manipulations, tactics aimed at bringing into catini, out of pre-assessment measures, a number of provisions that would not have had the courage to pass into the original finance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u81	Precisely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u82	But this bill, precisely by its modesty, by the extreme limitation of what it contains, tends towards nothing. And that's a very good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u83	[[Smile]] There's nothing ironic about our colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u84	[[Applause on the benches of MODEM groups and on some benches of the LaREM group]] This is a considerable step forward. I can't believe it. No tax measures! In the name of what would we have wanted tax measures? No expenditure other than affected budgetary movements! [[Same movements]] So, dear Gilles Carrez, you found the example of the OPEX. But precisely, what is this system of financing the OPEX that we have been living on for years? It consists of taking the nation's representatives for marbles, by making military operations financed from appropriations to cover the expenses of national education, cultural affairs or justice. It is therefore a step towards sincerity to concentrate these expenditures on the army budget! That's where we are! So, of course, this bill is limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u85	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u86	The time frame within which we approach it is also too limited. This might justify his dismissal, but certainly not his rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u87	We're moving on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u88	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u89	[[Applause and exclamations on the banks of the MODEM and LaREM groups, several of which rise]] I say to the opposition: what is your role? Certainly, it is to criticize. But is it to criticize when the Government is improving management rather than damaging it? Choose your arguments, don't blame the Government for doing better than its predecessors!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u90	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u91	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 45 Number of votes cast 45 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 14 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u92	Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u93	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u94	Thank you, Mr Wulfranc, for allowing me a word before your very objective developments. I didn't think I would speak after Ms Louwagie defended the motion, but I heard arguments during the explanations of vote, in the mouth of President Rabault – which does not surprise me – or of President Vigier, which is somewhat contradictory in relation to previous years – I will come back to – and which push me to do so. In substance, Mr Bourlanges and Mr Saint-Martin have said things very well, and I thank them for that. The measures we are proposing can no doubt be improved, Mrs Louwagie, but they are much more respectful of the parliamentary debate than the decrees in advance, which were used by all my predecessors. A draft decree in advance leaves you a period of one week, of course, but it is not bound by the opinions of the parliamentary committees, and cannot be amended or examined again. I am neither chairman nor rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, but I note that it met last Friday, when the text was presented to the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. The delay between the examination at the meeting and the presentation to the Council of Ministers, if it did not reach a week, was nevertheless five days. Moreover, the text may be subject to a final CMP or a new reading, and it is discussed and amended. Moreover, you could not have tabled 482 amendments on an advance decree, since such a text is neither amendable nor bound, I repeat, to the opinion of the committee. [[Smile]] You're so critical of the Government, Mrs. Louwagie, that if I walked on the water you'd say I can't swim. That's why I'm a little disappointed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u95	[[Smile]] Would the minister think he'd be God's?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u96	We'll come back to the OPEX. In this respect, what we are proposing seems to me to be much more sincere than before. The question of fuel was raised a little by Mr Woerth – I thought he had made a mistake, even if he did not commit very much – and more broadly by Mrs Louwagie. You call on the Government to be consistent. I am also asking you, Mrs Louwagie, for we are in a respectful debate, including the rights of the opposition, which aspires to return to responsibility. I have two very interesting leaflets in front of me. The first, from the Group of the Republicans, refers to proposals that we can discuss, including the creation of a monthly fuel check for each employee, without taxes or charges. This leaflet, which relayed, among other things, the position of Mr.Wauquiez and Mr.Peltier, had to be put on the pile since a second followed him – committing a new expense for the group, I imagine – which removed this proposal. I would therefore like to know the opposition's proposals, since, according to this second leaflet, all tax increases since 2017 must also be abolished. In other words, you are no longer in favour of an increase in carbon taxation path, to the back of what you defended during the presidential campaign. It is also contradictory to the measure adopted this morning by the elected representatives of Greater Paris – among which, perhaps, Mr Carrez – to prohibit the circulation of all diesel vehicles registered before 2001 in the grand crown: we are no longer even talking about an increase in taxation, but, broadly speaking, to drive the poor out of the great crown! I will not tell you, Mrs Louwagie, that the majority of those elected in Greater Paris belong to your political family. I therefore ask for a minimum of consistency. We are talking here about a PLFR, carrying budgetary measures. In this respect, the OPEXs undoubtedly deserve a debate, which we will gladly have, Mr Cornut-Gentille, even if I do not share your views on the subject. We can do politics for the simple pleasure of doing it, which after all does not bother me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u97	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u98	But here we are talking about tax matters, all of which you once deplored. All right. Under the previous quinquennium, Mrs. Rabault, you never had the opportunity to examine a budgetary LFRP, even though you called it your wish. But, moreover, your arguments are limited to the tax field, which I do not think is very consistent. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In short, we will be discussing budgetary measures, not fiscal ones, which seem to me to be part of the PLFR, but of the PLF, as Mr Bourlanges has explained very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u99	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u100	Without wishing to take any time for Mr Wulfranc, I would like to reply with a word on the examination in committee, Mr Minister. Since the text was presented to the Council of Ministers on Wednesday, it was difficult for us to examine it in committee before Friday, simply because the latter examined the non-attached articles. Of course, we had completed this examination at noon; But it is still necessary to give Members some time to study the text, to hear the Secretary of State whom you have delegated and to table amendments. Members cannot table amendments on a text until they have studied it: in general, they proceed in the opposite order! On the other hand, the Republicans' proposals have remained fully consistent since last year: as we suggest in our amendments to this text, we call for a fiscal freeze on fuels in 2019, and have redefined the carbon trajectory as early as October last year. So that's very different from what you said.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u101	I have received a motion from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u102	What am I doing, Minister, defending this motion to refer to committee on behalf of the Communist Members? This PLFR, you say, is proof that the budget is sincere and we have been able to amend it, most of our amendments, add with your customary irony, being out of the question. And if they are, it is simply because, to hear you, this PLFR is not a PLF bis. On behalf of the Communist Members of Parliament, I tell you that the French would still need a PLF bis, Mr Minister! Let us go back to the reasons for this motion. We believe, like many of our colleagues, that the examination of this PLFR is a parody of parliamentary work. Everyone on our benches felt it well: there is, in our chamber, a wind of humiliation in Parliament. In fact, national representation can legitimately be considered despised when it is only given five days – five days! – to assess, review and, where appropriate, amend the nation's budget. It is a defiance of the most basic rights of parliamentarians, who are thus unable to exercise their mandate, simply unable to act. Is it not said that Parliament monitors the Government's actions and evaluates public policies, according to the very terms of the prerogatives granted to it by article 24 of the Constitution? Article 44 of our basic law guarantees the right of amendment, both in committee and in session. So, what happened in this case? Under what technical, material and human conditions have we been forced to work, to act in accordance with our constitutional rights? The text that brings us together today was forwarded to parliamentarians last Wednesday early in the afternoon. It was presented to us a few hours later by the Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, and was the subject of the following review schedule: examination in committee on Friday morning, i.e. one and a half days later; review and adoption in open session today; all to be concluded in five chrono days, including weekends of course; five days during which we had to consider, at the same time, the end of the 2019 finance bill, including in committee the non-attached articles, and in sitting, the appropriations allocated to major public policies, such as health, territorial cohesion or the state's relations with local authorities: no more, no less. How can we deny, in these circumstances, that the rights guaranteed by our fundamental law are not violated? How can we monitor the action of the Government? How to assess public policies? Evaluation, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, is your mantra, your leitmotiv. How can we finally exercise our right of amendment under suitable conditions? In five days, it's simply impossible. Why so eagerly, minister, if the government has nothing to hide? Why scam our institutions if you accept the content of your amending budget? What may well be the reason why you are acting in this way, ignoring the basic rules that guarantee respect for parliamentary work? The Government, it seems to us, plays the "solo" game. In these circumstances, it would be fair to abolish the committee and, why not, Parliament! I solemnly declare it to you: the executive, in the circumstances, plays with fire, because it plays with our institutions. It was never seen in twenty-five years, recalled Charles de Courson in committee. With such deadlines we should "have the gift of ubiquity", our colleague Pires Beaune observed. "You are in the process of flouting" the right of amendment and, in so doing, "the Constitution and the rule of law", Patrick Hetzel said, quite rightly. That is why all the opposition groups have risen to leave the presentation meeting of this amending budget last Wednesday. And I am sure that many colleagues in the majority have doubted, and still doubt, the validity of the government's timetable. Let it be said with force: leaving this meeting, we have not done so with joy of heart, because we are committed to the full exercise of our parliamentary mandate, regardless of the bench where we sit in this Chamber. We have done so as a matter of responsibility, in order to sound the alarm in the face of an institutional drift that gradually, slowly but insidiously, leads to the corporalization of the National Assembly. Here you are putting into music the wish of the President of the Republic, embedded in the draft constitutional reform, to bring to fruition all the democratic institutions of our country. In fact, in view of the urgent need to guarantee the sovereignty of Parliament, the vote on this motion for referral to committee must go far beyond the ranks of the opposition. When national representation is thus dealt with, when the right of amendment is reduced, when the material conditions are not met to assess the proper implementation of the nation's budget, it is the honour of Parliament to assume all its responsibilities. If we consider the material inability to have a real democratic debate in the Committee on Finance last Friday, ladies and gentlemen, a referral to committee has not been so justified. But let us say things unambiguously, in order to remove the doubts and fears that some of our colleagues might have at the time of the vote: although some of us, of whom we are not, may wish, there is no question here of rejecting the amending budget as a whole. With this motion, we propose that the Committee on Finance take up the text again, so that parliamentarians can work calmly on its content and assess its consequences. Let us return for a moment, indeed, to the examination of this text in committee: barely a dozen Members were present there, and the discussion was closed in forty-five minutes, show in hand! This is the sign that the work was not done as it should have been. As the Finance Committee has been shunned, a new examination is needed. By adopting this motion, as I invite you to do, the committee could take up the text as soon as possible and set a timetable that respects the institutional balance. Let us come to the arguments specific to the Communist deputies. The referral to committee is, in our view, even more justified by the nature of the text that brings us together today: it is not just any budget that we are correcting, but the first budget in the full year of this legislature, the keystone of the presidential and governmental project, the act I of the "President of the Rich" – as we have described it – with its process of measures to the affluent and the merchant sector, in disregard of social and environmental emergencies. Because at last, what is the 2018 finance law? This is the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth; It is the introduction of ultra-attractive taxation for capital income, which is now less taxed than labour income; This is the beginning of a trajectory of a significant decline in corporate tax, to bring our country into line with the terrible global tax competition; Finally, it is the reduction of the tax on financial transactions, the tax on free shares and the wage tax to attract the famous traders of the City that Brexit could worry about. All this at the time when a sap work was being undertaken with regard to our labour law, in order to bring it into line with the wishes of the great boss as with the Brussels cannons of ever greater flexibility and precariousness in social relations. The finance law for 2018 is also a remarkable tax cup game, totally unreadable from the economic point of view: a little less housing tax here, much more CSG there, and a massive increase in fuel taxation, all sprinkled with a drop in social contributions and accompanied by the reduction of personalized housing assistance and the abolition of aided contracts. In terms of readability, for the lay people of tax science, we will go back! On the other hand, for our fellow citizens, the practical effects of this policy have been felt very quickly. In reality, they observe them everywhere, and you know it: in the amount of their pensions, on their payroll, at the pump or on the box at the bottom right of their bills. At best, they have benefited from a tiny increase in purchasing power, from which they have already lost profit because of the rise in inflation or from which they will lose it in another form: by the deterioration of public services, by the worsening of inequalities. At worst, they are experiencing an unacceptable decline in their standard of living – a situation that will worsen further in 2019 and 2020 due to the unindexing of certain social benefits against inflation. At the end of the day, the maps were deliberately scrambled to hide a political project that organized one of the largest transfers of wealth from the poorest to the most affluent known. To the hypothetical runoff was thus substituted a phenomenon of evaporation of wealth that signifies an unprecedented revenge of financial capitalism, just ten years after the largest and most serious financial crisis of the modern era, in 2008. The recent study by the Institute of Public Policy on the purchasing power of the French encourages us to deepen parliamentary work on this amending budget. The 2018 finance bill was to redistribute purchasing power to all our citizens, according to your promises. What does this study reveal to us? She corroborates my previous statement. So the most modest 20% will experience a drop in their disposable income by almost 1% in 2018 and 2019 when the country's richest 0.1% – we understand that this represents a few thousand ultra-rich households – will see their increase by an average of €86000 per year – it's pointed, it's calculated; That's about 7,000 euros a month. Here they are, the helpers of the Republic: the business bourgeoisie, the finance bourgeoisie! We are constantly denouncing him. The lack of analysis of the amending budget which we have been able to carry out these unbearable review periods shows that, in reality, there is little rectification, despite the accumulation of studies attesting to the economic and social inefficiency of your first budget. That is why the copy must be reviewed in the Finance Committee. The Executive is working with the European Commission and its European partners to improve deficit indicators. According to the presidential project, exiting from the excessive deficit procedure would enable France to regain its influence and credibility with other members of the European Union and thus achieve concrete progress in governance, taxation and economic integration. Therefore – without denying the energy spent by the ministers concerned – the umpteenth postponement of the "GAFA tax", the taxation of digital giants defended by your ministry, Minister, at European level appears as a new camouflage in the theatre of European politics. As we say and repeat, the European project has been confiscated by the major economic and financial interests. This is evidenced by postponements, exemptions, delayed or partial implementation of any ambitious economic, social, fiscal or environmental projects. Europe, which places the sacrosanct freedom of movement of capital, venerated by the liberals, above the well-being of the people, is more than ever prisoner of austerity. What reaction can the peoples expect when the European Commission validates without browsing a French budget that unconditionally grants 40 billion euros to the trading sector in 2018 and 2019 – because that's what the finance bill for 2019 is all about! – and, at the same time, calls on States to review their copies as soon as they consider social progress measures such as raising the minimum wage or retirement pensions? Sometimes complicit in the powers of money, sometimes ruthless with those who are experiencing difficulties: the European Commission, but also the Council, which brings together the European governments, apply a budget concept with variable geometry which, let us say clearly, is no longer tenable. By playing in this way with fire, thus promoting authoritarian liberalism, it is indeed the sustainability of the European project that is being called into question! It is also in this respect that parliamentary debates are indispensable. Thus, our country's deficit is less than expected. But at what cost? In detail, this reduction is mainly the result of the divestiture of State shares in the capital of enterprises. Our country still sold 2.35% of Safran's capital last month, amounting to €1.24 billion. This financial operation certainly leads to a reduction in deficits. Above all, it pushes back the state – the strategist state, the investor state, the economic actor state. "Less state," it's "better state," you think. For us, this is the opposite, as our proposals showed during the parliamentary debate on the PACTE bill – an action plan for business growth and transformation. I would like to focus specifically on one aspect of the amending finance bill that we find astounding: the cancellation of 600 million euros entered in the special allocation account "Support for the energy transition". It raises many questions, and we expect specific answers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u103	They were given in commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u104	... at a time when you are also announcing cancellations of appropriations for the Ministry of Ecology. Ladies and gentlemen, what is he hiding behind this special purpose account? This is the budget that benefits from the shift of part of the CTBTP, the internal consumption tax on energy products, which we have been talking about a lot for several weeks because it raises the legitimate discontent of our fellow citizens, who feel that they are brutally punctured when they fill up or fill their tanks for the winter. This has been said and said again, but it is a reality: this year, the increase in taxes has reached nearly 8 cents of euros per litre of diesel and nearly 4 cents per litre of super. Further increases are announced for January 1, 2019. Mr Minister, how can we explain this cancellation of EUR 600 million, even though, as we know, the ICTPE is already insufficiently financing the ecological transition? This has been noted by the growing public opinion on these issues. The ICTPE earns €37.7 billion, but only 19% of this revenue goes to the ecological transition, particularly to renewable energy or transport infrastructure. As rapporteur Woerth pointed out,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u105	I'm not Eric Woerth...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u106	It's okay, you're a rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u107	[[Smile]] You may have been Eric Woerth in another life!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u108	Mr Woerth, therefore, recalled it, and it seems that this was confirmed last Friday by Matignon to the national association CLCV – consumption, housing and living environment: the increase in fuels was intended to compensate for the abolition of the housing tax. Did you, Mr. Woerth, ask that question in the gallery earlier?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u110	Well, that's it, I don't have it all wrong! For our part, we believe that this increase has come primarily to fund the government's policy of careless support to the trading sector, large groups and the wealthy. Indeed, in 2018, the €3.7 billion increase in energy taxation more than offset the elimination of the ISF, which cost $3.2 billion. These are other relationships that we could discuss. It is now widely known that the Government has chosen to use the climate cause for budgetary purposes, undermining the sustainable commitment of our citizens to the fight that must mobilize us all. You place budgetary and financial logic at the heart of your political project; As a result, the effort made falls far short of what is necessary and sufficient to achieve the necessary energy transition. As you know, we would have to invest an additional EUR 10 to 20 billion each year in order to achieve this. These investments are essential to develop solutions other than our current production and consumption patterns, primarily in the field of transport. For more than eight million French, the majority of the assets, use their vehicles on a daily basis and do not have access to public transport that could replace them. Today, faced with rising fuel prices, they have a legitimate feeling that they are being pocketed. This is all the more common as they see, in parallel, the ever-increasing closures of stations, services, windows and, more generally, the remoteness of public services. Our colleagues from various political trends met again last week to discuss it, responding to the invitation of one of our colleagues in the Republican Group. Here it is, the reality in railway matters, as I recalled here last week: the policy of the SNCF government and management is characterized by withdrawal – withdrawal from the territories, ever more marked decline in freight. [[Smile]] The same logic governs all public service closures, whatever they may be. First, we invest less; then the service degrades or becomes less accessible. Gradually, users make less use of it since it is less attractive, and their disaffection then gives grain to those who want to end the public service. It is this logic that is at work, ladies and gentlemen, on our small train lines. As you know, this is not our vision of a major public rail service, which has a major role to play in accompaniment and success of the ecological transition. I'm not going astray! I'm going back to the energy transition about thermal renovation. Last year, you cut the €800 million energy transition tax credit. You then gave us two explanations. First of all a budget motive: it started to cost a little, obviously, and if it's good when it comes back, ecology, when it costs the state, you think twice. Then a technical reason: you indicated to us, at the time, that you wanted to replace this tax credit with a more effective aid scheme for households, but, I insist, the decision was neither more nor less overturned. We are therefore left with a stunted ISCED, the result of a lack of political will on your part. However, we had made it clear that the ecological transition would not take place if our country remained focused on deficit indicators, nor would it take place without an ambitious social policy, ensuring fairer taxation and empowering all our fellow citizens to live in dignity. Both are inextricably linked: one cannot want to embark on an ecological transition policy by wiping out social equality with a penny. It is precisely in a country where 9 million French people live below the poverty line, where 14 per cent of the population is unemployed, where pensions for pensioners are decreasing, that the question of ecological transition arises in the short and medium term. That's what Fabien Roussel said on television the other day. The issue that we can see when we read the book of the demands of those who will manifest in a few days. We continue to advocate for a new distribution of wealth, especially for a significant increase in SMIC.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u111	Like Valérie Pécresse...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u112	I know it's not your cup of tea, far from it, but we think that raising the SMIC to 1500 net in 2022 would be justified to really reduce inequalities. A similar trajectory is required for officials in the territorial, hospital or state civil service. It is also a question of irritating our tax system with greater progressivity. This implies, and we will continue to advocate, a reduction in VAT, a particularly unfair tax, which weighs more heavily on the most modest households. We want the income tax – which is still the fairest tax – to be rehabilitated. No, Mr Darmanin, we are not among those who dream of a country without taxes – I think I remember a sentence from you last summer that goes in that direction. The tax is useful when it is levied and distributed precisely. In the area of environmental taxation, we also believe that the State must shoulder its responsibilities by distributing the effort in a much more equitable manner. We have made many proposals which you will reject without a blow during the discussion of the text. Just know that the creation of a solidarity tax for the planet in the form of a contribution from large companies that would feed a fund for the ecological transition is not an idea in the air because environmental debt is also, and above all, the debt of capital. But, in terms of ecology, ambition is not limited to fiscal logics, we will come back to it, but must permeate spatial planning, mobility and infrastructure, but also food and consumption on a daily basis, housing and urban renewal. [[Mr. Fabien Roussel applauds]] I do not ask anyone to share the arguments on the motion for referral to committee put forward by Members of the GDR Group. Unlike others here, I am not in a position to judge whether or not the parliamentary work of the past few days is justified. Whatever our political label, regardless of the judgement we can make on the guidelines of the PLFR for 2018, let us nevertheless agree that the conditions for a parliamentary discussion have not been met, which is why I invite you to take your responsibilities and refer the text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u113	It was good...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u114	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee. Mrs Perrine Goulet, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u115	I do not understand, Mr Wulfranc, this request for referral back to committee. In preparation for my speech, I consulted the minutes of last Friday's committee meeting, thinking of reading the speeches of your colleagues in the GDR Group to defend their amendments. What was not my surprise! But where have you been? Probably not in committee. What about your amendments? You didn't drop them off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u116	What if we talk about the parliamentary agenda?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u117	So why a referral to the PLFR committee for 2018 if you did not attend its examination in committee? What is your goal? There's no need to look for explanations, there's no explanation. It is called, as I said earlier, obstruction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u118	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to your common sense and responsibility. The debate must take place in the Chamber, we all agree; But in this case, it is sterile. Let us stop these systematic motions for texts that do not deserve it. Let us stop the multiplication of identical amendments from the same political group. We need to discuss the substance of the articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u120	Here we go! You are firmly against the right of amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u121	The objective of the PLFR for 2018 is to adjust the original finance law to the actual implementation of the state budget. It's not a PLF bis. This text breaks with practices that have become systematic, such as the adoption of advance decrees, or the taking of tax measures that came out of the hat at the last moment. That's what, maybe, destabilizes you. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] The PLFR consists of only nine articles. Its format is lightened, allowing us to examine it as early as November. There will be no openings or cancellations of appropriations by decrees in advance. Thirty years we haven't seen that! Parliament therefore takes over and will decide on the whole of these measures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is why we will not vote on the motion for referral back to committee because this PLFR is in line with our ambitions – ambitions that we will achieve.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u122	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u123	We did not plan to speak on this motion, even though we were determined to vote on it because we tabled a motion to reject it beforehand. We are certainly not going to vote on it on the grounds put forward by Mr Wulfranc, and if we take the floor in spite of everything, it is to remind Mrs Goulet that we must respect certain rights in Parliament. That of parliamentarians is to amend a text and, whether you like it or not, Members of the various opposition groups have the right to speak and to table amendments. It is a way of trying to influence the Government's policy. It is, I insist, a strict right of the Member, as well as the fundamental right, to table a motion for rejection or referral to committee. While previously the largest opposition groups were sure to defend at least one of the two motions, the new rules have made the groups now drawn by lot. Thus, it was the GDR Group and the FI Group that put forward the two motions on the PLF for 2019. However, both motions are by right and indeed provided for in the Assembly's Rules of Procedure. Whether you like it or not, you cannot take away these prerogatives. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, if you argue that the text is indeed light, it is the conditions for its examination that are unacceptable. Not that we complain that we have too much work, but we want to be able to think, to analyse what is being proposed to us. There have been no decrees in advance and the text, you insist, does not contain any cancellations of appropriations, either, but it does involve transfers of appropriations between lines. In addition, I am not convinced that the military programming law is being respected by this PLFR. We have the right to say and to manifest this by tabling amendments and defending motions for rejection or referral, whether I repeat, you like it or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u125	I would point out, Madam Member, that the Rules of Procedure have not been amended with regard to the drawing of lots by groups to defend a motion; Only these groups are more numerous than before. Mrs Valérie Rabault, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u126	The Members of my group will also vote on the motion for referral back to committee. Minister, we know that there are no tax provisions in the text. What we are denouncing is that you are giving Members three days to review all the appropriations, to obtain the necessary information, even as we are also reviewing the 2019 Finance Bill, that we are drafting amendments to the attached and non-attached articles... In previous years, three weeks have elapsed between the examination of the text in the Council of Ministers and the time when it was submitted to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u127	It's not the same text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u128	It is not the same text, but the expenditure of the general state budget amounts to more than 400 billion euros. So you will still allow us to look at these appropriations, especially since, as you know, a bill for amending finance has slippers, and this one is no exception. For these reasons, we will vote on the motion for referral to committee tabled by our communist colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u129	Mrs Lise Magnier, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u130	I am quite in favour of the motion. It is true that there are only nine articles in the text; Of course, it is a real PLFR. However, there are EUR 7.6 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 6.7 billion in payment appropriations for appropriations and EUR 1.9 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 2 billion in payment appropriations for cancellations. And here I refer only to the general budget, not the ancillary accounts or the trust accounts. So you can recognize that having less than 24 hours to review all of these credits is, in all honesty, still a little fair, especially as we are at the same time reviewing the PLF for 2019. I shall therefore vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u131	Mr Vigier has the floor for the Libertés et Territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u132	On behalf of my group, I will also vote on the motion, especially for the reasons mentioned earlier. The rights of Parliament are often invoked. I do not blame the new Members for their freshness: our colleague from the LaREM Group explained to us that everything was wonderful, that there had been no decree in advance, that we could close our eyes and trust the majority for this PLFR. No: the work of a parliamentarian requires, when a text is submitted to him, that he has all the criteria of analysis in order to be able to form a complete opinion. Secondly, a number of questions were problematic, and the Government's replies were not satisfactory. I am thinking, for example, of the ecological taxation that is being debated. It does not seem inappropriate to me that Members of the House of Commons should be able to go into a variety of matters in the course of a review of an amending finance bill. Without this, and without a delay that allows us to prepare for this work, what would it be useful to spend time again on a financial text? Finally, the rapporteur-general, on Thursday and Friday last, in the Committee on Finance, you have replied to us on several occasions, as we are examining the amendments, that you prefer to deal with a particular issue with the minister in the Chamber. Today, while Mr Darmanin is on the bench of the Government, and Mr Daniel Labaronne will be able to see that we have not tabled many amendments – four really new, and in full connection with the text – I hope that we will have an in-depth debate. In any case, minister, we are trying to make proposals to you – I will certainly have the honour of making one for you in the near future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u133	On the motion for referral to committee, a request for a public vote is before me by the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u134	I remember an illustrious parliamentarian and politician, President Edgar Faure, who explained that if you were embarrassed in a debate, you had an interest in asking a single question: "Is this the time? That's enough for everything to get messed up. I note that this is what is happening today: the opposition is embarrassed on the substance, and it is asking only one question with this referral to committee: is this the time? Of course, this is never the time; Everyone is never quite ready; the amendments have never been fully studied, and the deadlines are still too short – in this case, Minister, they are, because you have used them a little cavalierly with the Finance Committee. But, at last, what's this all about? The modesty of this text allows us to table, discuss, vote on or reject amendments. Those who ask for a large additional period of time do not do so with the intention of voting on this amending finance bill: they want to distort it, do something else, turn it into an initial finance bill bis. That's not the goal of a collective! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] What happens if we adopt the motion to refer it back to committee? Certain appropriations intended to pay staff could not be adjusted, and the Government would be required to issue decrees in advance. Do we want to reject an amending finance bill and end up with pre-order orders? Colleagues, do you want to be frogs asking for a king?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u135	Mr. Member of Parliament, what an enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u136	Mrs Sabine Rubin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u137	We can only agree with this request for referral back to committee. Mrs Goulet, we have nevertheless taken the time to be present in committee and to table amendments. We have done the most serious work possible, but the conditions under which we have had to do it are not correct. We would need to deepen what has been done, to be more nuanced...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u138	Yes, "more nuanced"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u139	The lack of time and senseless deadlines largely deserve to refer the text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u140	Mr Fabien Roussel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u141	The Communist Members will of course vote on the point of order they have tabled themselves. The right of amendment guaranteed by the Constitution is flouted by the deadlines for tabling the amendments: only 48 hours from the time when the text was presented to us and the deadline for tabling the amendments closed. How do you want us to work properly within such a time frame, even though we were at the same time convened in the Finance Committee to examine the non-attached articles of the PLF? That is not how we guarantee Parliament's right of amendment! [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Persistent exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] An amending finance bill can correct a fiscal trajectory if there are urgent needs, emergencies or serious needs. Right now, isn't there a cry of anger going up in our country? Does this cry not deserve to be taken into account in this amending finance bill? Of course, on Friday morning we were not in the Finance Committee: I am a member of the Finance Committee, but personally I was in my constituency. You see, ladies and gentlemen, every Friday morning, I have a permanence in my constituency and I get people. You should be more often in your ridings to listen to what our fellow citizens are saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u142	I was there Saturday morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u143	They are angry, and they will show it with good reason. If you spent less time in the Chamber, and more time in the field, you would have a chance to hear that anger! Then you might vote for this referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u144	This is where we vote the law, not on the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u145	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u146	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 44 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 15 Against 29
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u147	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u148	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u149	In the general discussion, the floor was for Mr Philippe Vigier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u150	Mr Minister, my remarks will not surprise you: I always regret that there is no more consideration for national representation – this has already been said by many representatives of the political groups in our House, even though I have heard the enthusiasm of Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, who explained to us that everything is fine. Yet, no, I do not believe that what is going on is good, at a time when the Government has embarked on constitutional reform, so that, he explains, we can modernize the functioning of the Assembly so that we do not feel that we are, at times, becoming a recording chamber – a feeling that we all feel, both of us, more and more. And it is all the more a pity, Minister, that I stress, as others have done, that this is not a bis finance law and that there is no advance decree. You often talk about consistency when you talk to us, but I have often indicated, since you were in charge of the public accounts, that the budget was sincere, unlike previous legislatures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u151	Bravo, beautiful intellectual honesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u152	From time to time we have to try to make a balanced statement. However, I have listened to you several times on the deadlines, but you have not convinced me. Forgive me for running between the Committee on Finance and the House, where there is work at the same time, especially last week when we examined the appropriations for the work and employment mission, and for asking me about the possibility of studying this text seriously. By planning to review this text this Monday, and thus anticipating that we will not discuss it beyond this evening, you are forcing us to legislate under conditions that do not allow us to play the lucid and demanding role that our group wishes to play. This text, however, raises real questions, as Eric Woerth said. This morning, a meeting was held in Matignon on ecological taxation. Knowing how we will meet the expectations of the French tomorrow is important, as the President of the Republic himself was questioned on this subject many times last week. It is natural that such a legislative vehicle should be used to have a debate between us. At a time when we are thinking of reforming the Constitution, it is practical to make a mess of parliamentary work. This weakens, I say "weakening", my dear colleagues, the National Assembly, which is not seen from the same angle, depending on whether one sits in the majority or in the opposition. It would be irrelevant if it were not for the state budget and if this kind of practice did not feed – as I said earlier, and this argument seemed to fall flat, but it is not – the questions of our compatriots about the reality of parliamentary work: what would they think if a television camera made a broad plan of our hemicycle? Where are the deputies, what are they doing, yes or no, taking care of France?, they would doubtless wonder. Through this contempt for parliamentary work, these are territories, where we are elected, and their inhabitants from which you are moving away. Everyone will be able to recognize that government action raises doubts, with opinion polls showing how difficult it is to govern. It is by sharing a vision and a course, and by involving all the forces of the country in a common approach, that you will be able to put your action on a long-term basis. The content of this bill suffers from a few shortcomings, which echo the criticisms of form, as in many cases. You are opening up EUR 402 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations for the financing of external operations and internal missions. This is the most significant appropriation of this bill. Joël Giraud remembers that I had intervened in the Finance Committee to ask why the necessary effort was not being made as soon as the original finance law was in place, since it has been under-financing the OPEXs for several years, as we know very well. There is no redeployment of interdepartmental appropriations from the defence budget. I have heard the words of Jean-Louis Bourlanges: very well, dear Jean-Louis Bourlanges, but we have passed a law of programming that only foresees this development in 2020. In my view, this redeployment poses two difficulties: the first is that by doing so, we diminish the ability of our army to equip itself and we amplify the effort – which I applauded at the same forum – to achieve 2% of GDP for defence; The second is the development of the European defence policy, which was the subject of a strong speech by the President of the Republic yesterday, 11 November, which I am constantly promoting here and which you share, I believe, is the right one. I come to an unacceptable measure, which I hope, Minister, you will be able to explain to us. The delay of only three days left to study this text contributed to the misunderstanding of this measure. I am referring to the famous reassignment of 600 million euros from the energy transition trust account to the general state budget. How can our compatriots understand, in the context of a constant increase in fuel prices, that there is taxation, under the guise of ecological taxation – which can be understood, and I do not dispute the need for the energy transition – which serves to feed the general budget? It is all the more a pity that an excellent report, written by our colleague Senator Jean-Claude Luche and of which I imagine the rapporteur-general made his honey...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u153	I gave the explanations in committee, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u154	... explains that ecological taxation is used in a logic of "budgetary return". Green taxation has been increased by EUR 8 billion in two years, while the ecological budget is only increasing by 16%, according to Mr Luche, or EUR 1 billion. Perhaps we should look at the gap between these two amounts in other budget lines, but I imagine that the rapporteur-general will put a special strain on us to understand the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u155	I did it in committee, sir.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u156	The Libertés et Territoires Group considers that revenues from energy taxation – EUR 15 billion by 2022 – should be fully allocated to support the energy transition in the territories and to support households and businesses in changing their consumption and production patterns. With this in mind, I would like to make a simple and clear proposal, since I understand that the Government is trying to get out of the crisis – the regional council of Hauts-de-France, a region that you love, the minister, has set up a cheque for fuel of 20 euros a month, and the Republicans have also put forward a proposal – but that there is no solution. Perhaps we could reflect on this proposal: the purchase of a clean vehicle costs, on average, 12,000 euros, and there is currently a 2000 euro purchase premium. We propose to double this premium. Minister Bruno Le Maire said the other day he was in discussion with the builders so that they would take over half of the effort. Then, to finance the last 8000 euros, a zero-rate loan could be set up, as was done for housing, over five years, so that the most modest could acquire these vehicles. It would be an ambitious plan to replace 6 million vehicles in three years. Two million vehicles each year costing the state EUR 1000 each, which would make an expenditure of EUR 2 billion per year, covered by ecological taxation. There would be no extra cost for the user, because for an electric vehicle, energy costs nothing or very little. The economy amounts, for 20,000 kilometres a year, to 146 euros a month: I have done precise calculations and would be happy to give you my card, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u157	We need to change the calculator, Mr. Vigier!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u158	[[Mrs. Stella Dupont smiles]] Look, I'd be happy to hear about your proposal, dear colleague, but this zero-rate loan of 8000 euros over five years costs 1,600 euros a year, 144 euros a month and 144 euros a month, which is what a vehicle that consumes 7.5 litres of diesel per 100 kilometres travels 16500 kilometres a year. CQFD. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain the calculation. It makes you smile, but I don't. It is a shame to take such a proposal as little consideration. We've tried to think, when you, you're dismissing suggestions with leaflets like earlier. PTZ devices were deployed in the housing, why not imagine them for vehicles? The advantage is that the taxpayer does not have to come out of money, an argument that you used to defend the withholding of tax at source. This proposal would restore the confidence pact and provide a response to the social and ecological crisis at no extra cost to users. As you see, Minister, our group can oppose your policy when it does not seem to us to be in the right direction, while trying modestly to develop solutions together. It is a pity that this effort only arouses smiles: do not sweep away the proposals of others, who also have some experience, modest, but which can be useful! We solemnly ask you to consider this proposal. I am prepared to listen to the opposing arguments and to work with you to prevent fuel prices from rising yet, as expected next January. Finally, Mr Minister, Joël Giraud explains in his report that the deficits are falling slightly: I think you will have the honesty to say with me that it was the transfer by the state of 2.35% of Safran's capital for EUR 1.24 billion that allowed the deficit to be contained at EUR 80 billion. This element, quite unquestionable, is useful for a deficit of EUR 80 billion, but it cannot be said that the budget deficit is substantially reduced. This means only one thing: in terms of public spending and the profound transformation of our country, there is still much to be done. We have three and a half years left to restore fiscal balance. In these circumstances, we consider this amending finance bill to be insufficient. We will not vote for it, unless the Government tries to move forward towards those for whom, as you often say, the minister, the work has to pay more, while at present it pays less, because of the daily burden that transportation represents for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u159	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u160	In many ways, the review of this budget collective for 2018 marks a break in our assembly. In the text you are proposing to us, Minister, there is no last-minute promise, no new tax provision that would upset the visibility of economic actors before the final vote on the budget for next year, no attempt to circumvent an already tight budget schedule. Recall that the second PLFR for 2017 included 96 articles, that of 2016, 149, that of 2015, 123, and that of 2014, 114. So how do we get there? On the contrary, Mr. Minister, you have respected your commitment, made a year ago, to submit the entire opening or cancellation of appropriations to our authority, rather than acting by order-in-council. We are looking at a narrow, coherent and reassuring text that makes the necessary adjustments to the balance defined in the original finance law. We see respect for the dual requirement of budgetary sincerity and democratic respect for our institution. On the substance of the text, first of all, I would like to stress on behalf of the Republic on the March Group the seriousness and sincerity of the very first full financial year of the quinquennium. While the previous majority had left us a deficit of 5 billion euros higher than expected, which had forced the Government to take corrective measures to keep the government deficit below the 3% of GDP mark in 2017, it must be noted that this first budget was built on sound bases and realistic forecasts: public expenditure is kept and in line with initial forecasts; the government deficit is 2.6% of GDP, consistent with our public finance programming trajectory; the tax and non-tax revenues correspond to the assumptions of stable and sustained growth of 1.7%. Behind all these figures are also the first effects of our fiscal policy aimed at transforming our economy; As a result, investments are resumed and the confidence of economic actors is restored, thanks to structural measures such as the labour market ordinances adopted last summer. According to ACOSS figures from last week's issue of The Economist, CDI recruitment intentions are up 10% compared to last year. This collective budget also reflects our policy of improving the daily lives of the French, with the full reduction of wage contributions and the first effects of the reduction of the housing tax, but also the acceleration of the ecological transition, thanks, it should be noted, to an appropriation of 123 million euros for aid for the acquisition of cleaner vehicles. This testifies to the effectiveness of the measure. Our policy is responsible and consistent: the measures already announced, and to be confirmed with regard to CAP 2022, will initiate a thorough modernisation of public action. On the form, we can only regret the principled postures of our opposition, which remains attached to old practices that it itself has criticized on several occasions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u161	It's school!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u162	[[Daniel Labaronne and Stella Dupont applaud]] In his letters, Gustave Flaubert wrote: "When you become old, habits are a tyranny..... Everything that goes away, everything you leave has the character of the irrevocable (...)". The amending finance bill presented to us by the Government, without decrees in advance, aims precisely to put an end to these bad habits, which the most honourable of my colleagues have denounced: I am thinking of Charles de Courson, who was talking about "budget manipulation" in December 2016 or Gilles Carrez, who was already referring to "significant shortcomings" in initial budgeting in 2006. Reintegration of the vote on the opening and cancellation of appropriations in the draft law is tantamount to giving national representation all its authority and prerogatives over the authorization of appropriations. Faced with this effort of sincerity and democratic respect for the parliamentary procedure, I can only regret certain words heard in committee, recalling the dark hours of our Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With 150 hours of debate for the examination of the PLF for 2018 and more than 4000 amendments studied for the one for 2019, you cannot say that the debate did not take place. On the other hand, with regard to the effectiveness and constraint of the review deadlines, I refer you to your own responsibilities. And since this evening's debate is also focused on ecological taxation, I regret that President Woerth left his seat after a few minutes when I presented my report on this subject to the Committee on Finance and Sustainable Development, and that there was no member of the opposition to the colloquium I organised last October on the use of revenues and the impact of the carbon trajectory, to which all my colleagues were invited.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u163	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u164	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] To those who have worked on the drafting of the Organic Law on Finance Laws – LOLF – adopted in 2001 and who still believe in it, the present year-end budget collective brings some satisfaction. The first is the fact that this text is purely budgetary. It is limited to opening up the necessary appropriations, canceling those which can be cancelled in return and thawing those which remain usable. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bourlanges also applauds]] Moreover, it prohibits tax provisions. For having suffered, for so many years, from avalanches of tax amendments, tabled by whole carts at the last minute, counting in tens or hundreds, I must say that there is real progress there. Unfortunately, this progress is being undermined by the truly senseless deadlines that have been imposed on us for the examination of the collective budget, closing the examination of the collective budget within a period of less than half the time that we have been given to deliver opinions on the decrees in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u165	Unwise delays, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u166	The tyranny of Flaubert, dear Benedict Peyrol, is above all that of delays! It is this which we are contesting, not the need to ban the tax provisions of the year-end fiscal collective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u167	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u168	You're used to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u169	The tax provisions appear either in the original finance law or in a dedicated text, such as the one adopted last year when it comes to drawing the consequences of the invalidation of the 3% tax on dividends. I remember too well these amendments tabled at the sitting by the Government – Valérie Rabault also remembers – by dozens, sometimes by hundreds. Moreover, no one understood anything about it and they were often the sources of errors that we later regretted. [[Smile]] I would also like to take this opportunity to refer to the own-initiative amendments, which sometimes remind me of OCDs, obsessive compulsive disorders.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u170	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u171	In fact, the same amendment is often discussed every year when the first part of the original finance bill is examined, then when the second part of the bill is examined, and again when the budget collective is examined, after which the ride continues to run during the new readings. We've got to finish it! On the other hand, Eric Woerth's observations that the fiscal collective can accommodate a limited tax debate are perfectly justified. Thus, the evolution of fuel taxation should be discussed this evening. Mr rapporteur-general, you said earlier that the Constitutional Council could one day cancel the amendments on taxation tabled on a budget-based text. I don't think so at all! Indeed, its jurisprudence has always defended the right of amendment, including the introduction of tax amendments on bills other than finance bills, as you know. With regard to expenditure, I also note that progress has been made. With regard to the State's pilotable expenditure, the limitation on regulatory movements of appropriations amounts to €2.7 billion in cancellations and €2 billion in openings, which is half the amount of advance decrees taken in recent years. This shows that the sincerity of the initial forecasts has been improved. I welcomed the 8% to 3% reduction in the precautionary reserve rate a year ago – and I am still pleased about that. Moreover, I note – this is a very important point – that almost all of the appropriations cancelled are cancelled in this context, which tends to satisfy an essential concern of the LOLF which we have often failed to satisfy. Indeed, it has a managerial dimension. How to empower program managers? By guaranteeing them credits that will not be cancelled or questioned at any point in time. That is what reinforces their responsibility! On the other hand, I have a doubt, which is even more than a doubt – François Cornut-Gentille will tell us more – about the financing of the extra costs of OPEX. Minister, I can assure you that if Jean-Yves Le Drian were still the Minister of Defence, we would have heard about it! An agreement had been reached on this point and included in the military programming law for the years 2019 to 2025. Interdepartmental funding should have been used. Finally, I will refer to the big figures in this amending finance bill. With regard to the growth forecast for 2018, the High Council for Public Finance estimates that it will be in the order of 1.6% or 1.7%. We'll see at the beginning of January. The overall budget deficit is 2.6% of GDP. I will conclude with an essential message. For the first time in many years, spending on public debt as a result of financial charges has increased in execution. This shows how vulnerable we are to any increase in interest rates. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Unfortunately, with a budgetary deficit of 2.6% of GDP, we do not reach the threshold below which the debt is stabilized. So it continues to increase. As soon as interest rates start to rise, we will be in a very poor fiscal position.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u172	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u173	It was important to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u174	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u175	I will open this intervention by recalling that the amending finance bill for 2018 demonstrates the effort to improve the budgetary sincerity led by the majority since the beginning of the legislature. That's a lot of change. It's all about transparency. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Here – for the first time since 2001 – is a short finance bill, with only nine clauses – compared to thirty-six for the second amending finance bill for 2017 passed last year – and above all no advance orders! I would like to commend the strength of the Minister's commitment and his tenacity. He had promised an amending finance bill without any tax measures and kept his promise. In addition, the drafting of this draft law on transparent and readable amending finance values the powers of Parliament. For once, all budgetary openings and cancellations will have been decided by Parliament. The Government's oversight of Parliament's activities is strengthened by this legislation in line with the Government's commitments to strengthen the sincerity of the budget. Thus, Parliament's budgetary mission is recognised and respected. However, Parliament must be able to work with the Government in a constructive manner. While we welcome the attitude taken by each group during the discussion of the text in the Committee on Finance, in which the proposed amendments were part of the framework of end-of-management adjustments, we regret that some have not had the consistency to keep it. Indeed, more than 450 amendments – some of which contain tax provisions – have been tabled for consideration of the text in open session. Progress is sometimes difficult to preserve! In line with the essence of the text, our group, endorsing the remarks made earlier by the rapporteur-general and the minister, will not vote for any amendments containing tax provisions, which are included in the 2019 Finance Bill. The nine articles of the draft Finance Amendment Act are consistent with the end-of-management pilotage measures. Several of them aim to adjust appropriations according to the consumption of appropriations and the requirements of end-of-management. Adjustments are also planned for the allocation of appropriations, but they remain strictly necessary. The adoption of end-of-management steering measures seems necessary, especially as they improve the balance of the state deficit for 2018 by EUR 1.3 billion, by increasing the expected amount from EUR 81.3 billion to EUR 80 billion, which the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes. One point, however, has drawn our particular attention: the redeployment of the defence mission's appropriations to the tune of EUR 404 million, mainly aimed at financing the additional costs of the OPEX. The redeployments of this kind should, we hope, fade in the coming years due to the improvement in the budgeting of OPEX under the military programming law for the years 2019 to 2025. In any event, it is important for the Government to commit itself to inter-ministerial solidarity in this area...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u177	... if budget implementation is expected to far exceed the expenditure that could be anticipated when the initial finance bill is examined – for the time being, this is not the case this year. Minister, such a commitment on your part is essential to us. In addition, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement supports the reduction of employment ceilings, which is part of the objective of strengthening the sincerity of the budget. Indeed, this measure is taken pursuant to Article 11 of the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022, which requires that the vacancy under the ceiling for job authorisations be reduced to a level close to 1% in order to bring the employment ceilings and the appropriations for staff expenditure into line. MODEM welcomes the implementation of this measure, which will help to improve budgetary sincerity and effectiveness. Efforts to reduce the structural deficit can be continued. On this point, it seems to us that the Government's policy is committed with courage and perseverance in this never-ending work, however, as evidenced by the various measures voted or still to be considered in the framework of the 2019 Finance Bill. The Government forecasts a growth rate of about 1.7 per cent. The growth acquis is already estimated at 1.5%. I too, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, have read the forecasts of the High Council for Public Finance, which estimates that the government's growth assumption is "a little high" and that growth will reach only 1.6 per cent. However, I do not think it necessary to enlarge the line. The difference between these forecasts is only 0.1 %. Allow me to refresh your memory and remind you that last year, on the same date, growth forecasts were 1.7 per cent according to the Government and 1.8 per cent according to the HCFP. Finally, we found that the growth rate was 2.2%. Year-end hazards make this 0,1 % difference reasonable. So, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, don't worry! Do not overestimate the magnitude of the gap between the Government's growth forecasts and those of HCFP! They are finally quite close and do not justify the development of alarmist discourses. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] However, it should be recalled, following the High Council for Public Finance, that the structural balance effort will be virtually zero in 2018, so that the medium-term objective in this area seems to be still distant. Despite this reservation about the trajectory of the structural deficit, we consider that the amending finance bill for 2018 meets the requirements of sincerity and fiscal seriousness that drive not only our group but also the vast majority of parliamentarians. We shall therefore vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u178	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u179	Minister, this session gives us an opportunity to take stock of your full-year fiscal management for 2018. I would like to make a number of comments. The first one is about shape. The timetable for this amending finance bill is simply new: you presented the text in the Council of Ministers on Wednesday, 7 November, by requiring members of the Finance Committee to table amendments by 8 November; the text was examined in committee on 9 November and it is in open session today, all of which are entangled with the consideration of the 2019 Finance Bill. By comparison, in 2015, the public debate on the current year's draft Finance Amendment Bill took place between November 30 and December 4, three weeks later than this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u180	How many articles?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u181	The bill was introduced in Council of Ministers on 13 November, which allowed Members of Parliament time to consider it. The same observation was made in 2016: the public examination of the current year's amending finance bill took place from 5 to 7 December, after the presentation of the text in the Council of Ministers on 18 November. The same observation was made in 2017: the review of the text in public session took place between December 4 and 8, after it had been presented to the Council of Ministers on November 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u182	In fact, the general discussion is limited to a calendar!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u183	Mr Minister, by doing so, you are putting forward a timetable that is at best draft and at worst disrespectful of Parliament's work – I hope that is not the case. I would like to stress that a lack of respect for Parliament's work is simply a lack of respect for the well-informed democratic debate that our country needs. I will make a second observation, which is still in the form: there is no solemn vote in this amending finance bill. Your majority will vote this night, between 3 and 4 a.m.,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u184	Maybe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u185	..., in other words, in catimini. Teasing minds would be likely to see this as a manoeuvre on your part to avoid transparency on your management for the year 2018. How did you get there? Well, the answer is very simple: you, minister, fix the decrees in advance. On October 15, you stated that you wanted to "not present any decree in advance and present a management that respects the work of parliamentarians, the opposition as well as the majority". As regards respect for parliamentary work, we remain hungry!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u186	Absolutely. Can do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u187	You added that this is "the proof that we have indeed "syncized" the budget documents." Minister, let us speak frankly: you are in a stalemate. Today, 12 November 2018, you are missing 163 million euros in budget appropriations to pay teachers in the second level of public education until the end of the year. Everyone must understand that you had two options: either to take a decree in advance that would have allowed you to release this money immediately, this operation being then regulated by the law of amending finance that could have been examined without haste; either loosen the bill of amending finance to be in time so that this money is released and teachers can be paid. You also need EUR 19 million to pay the salaries of teachers at the first and second levels of private education until the end of the year; you also need €20 million to pay salaries in university research until the end of the year; You still need 31 million euros to pay the salaries of the police officers by the end of the year. Finally, you are short of €404 million to finance external operations, OPEX, by the end of the year. Minister, you have been caught up in the reality of your management. You don't have enough money in the coffers of some departments to pay the professors, the police, the researchers. And you'd like to make us believe in good management on your part, on the sole ground that you refuse the decrees in advance? But honestly, it's us either as naive or as funny! The pre-decree was introduced by the Organic Act on Finance Laws of 2001 because everyone is well aware that it is not possible to decide everything by 1 January. Every Frenchman knows well that in order to manage his own budget, he may have to decide things in the course of the year that were not originally planned. However, this does not make it a bad manager. Mr.Minister, you are stumbling around the issue of advance decrees, which leads you to flout the amending finance law for 2018, until you refuse it a solemn vote. Or, worse, you use professors, police officers and researchers as a variable to adjust your budget rigidity – which in my view would in no way be like a serious budget. That, Minister, we cannot accept. Let's get to the bottom now. First of all, with regard to the appropriations you are missing, I have just mentioned them: you are missing some EUR 300 million to pay the salaries of certain officials until the end of the year. That's not shocking. What's shocking is how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, how you do things, As regards the external operations carried out by the French military for our defence, so far the additional expenditure for the OPEX has always been paid by national solidarity. You do not want it to continue to be so. However, Article 4 of the Military Programming Law for the years 2019 to 2025 states: "In management, net additional costs, excluding payroll credits entered in the law of finance for internal and net missions of reimbursements of international organizations, not covered by this provision, are subject to inter-ministerial funding. [...]". You do not respect this article 4, voted recently. Then, as far as the energy check is concerned, I confess that my arms fell. Your draft amending finance law for 2018 proposes by your majority to vote a reduction of 50 million euros in the appropriations allocated to the financing of the energy cheque, via the programme "Public service of energy".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u188	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u189	This reduction is incomprehensible. It comes at a time when the French realize the magnitude of the energy taxes that your majority voted for. They increased on 1 January 2018; they will increase on 1 January 2019; they will increase on 1 January 2020; they will increase on 1 January 2021; they will increase on January 1, 2022. These increases do not take into account either income, access or access to a public transport network; They therefore unfairly penalize the French who have the lowest incomes and who have no choice but to take their vehicle to go to work. Now you have a tool for rebalancing: the energy check, created by the law on the energy transition voted by our majority in 2015. But you find the way to plan, in this amending finance bill, the only instrument that would allow you to accompany the French who have the lowest incomes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u190	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u191	Minister, I am just reading what is written in the amending finance bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u192	But that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u193	I'm just reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u194	It's demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u195	You can talk about demagogy, minister, I'm just reading the bill! But since we didn't have time to talk about it, you didn't have time to explain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u196	Ah, if we had had time to talk about it in committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u197	Yes, minister, we couldn't talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u198	We had to stay to attend the debates in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u199	Mrs. Rabault is absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u200	Still, 50 million euros disappear from the programme that finances the energy check! For our part, in view of the lack of transparency of the Government on the unprecedented increases in energy taxes, we have put online a purchasing power simulator that several thousand French people have already consulted since last Thursday: the socialists.fr/simulator. By giving its heating and fuel consumption, everyone will be able to see the extent of the increases in energy taxes voted by the majority, which will apply on 1 January. Because your decision to cut into the energy check credits is incomprehensible, we have tabled amendments, in line with the proposals we have made to support the French who have the lowest incomes and who have no choice but to take their vehicle. We offer you once again – you refused last year – to include in the energy check a fuel component. The energy check now benefits 3.7 million French; we propose to double its amount again, for an annual cost of 300 million. We also propose to extend this energy fuel version check to those of the 17 million assets that take their vehicle every day because they have no other choice and have a salary of less than 1500 euros per month. This proposal would cost EUR 600 million. Finally, we consider it essential that a real observatory should look at the evolution of the purchasing power of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group as well as on several benches of the LR group]] For our country, we sincerely hope, Minister, that you will be able to hear these proposals of common sense, and above all of social and territorial justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u201	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u202	[[Laughs]] For the first time since 1985, according to the archaeological research of our general rapporteur Joël Giraud, the budget collective for 2018 marks a break with the usual practices. Indeed, until this year, the end-of-management budget collectives still contained quite a number of new tax provisions. This amending finance bill therefore finally renews what the finance laws should always be: a series of budgetary measures adjusting the balance of the original finance law, but without any tax provisions. It is out of respect for this true PLFR that our group has not tabled any tax amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u204	Another point should be credited to the Government: it had not resorted to the provisions of the advance decrees. Thank you, Minister, for keeping your promise to stop using amending finance bills as a catch-up session of the finance bill under review. However, this satisfaction can only be tarnished by the conditions under which we have had to examine this text: less than two days between the tabling of the draft and the meeting of the Finance Committee, and the text passes in open session only three days later. It is quite unacceptable that the study of financial texts should take place in a state of recurrent haste, even if the text contains only nine articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u206	It is a matter of respect, as well as responsibility, for those we represent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u207	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u208	Honestly, minister, how would you have reacted to us when you were a member of Parliament? Here in the National Assembly, debates and votes must be informed. As with many of my colleagues, I carry out my first mandate. There seems to be a common problem: the delays in reviewing financial texts, and their superimposition on the agenda. Although this is more about the constitutional reform bill, which we are likely to resume next January, allow me to make a short digression. If we shorten the time for consideration of these financial texts in order to speed up the debate, it will be necessary, in return, to submit the text and the annexed documents more upstream. We all too often find that documents are not transmitted to us in a timely and timely manner. Thus, I remember hearing our colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz regretting that he did not have the yellow budget when he considered his special report at the sitting; I remember, during the review of the Overseas Mission, that Members discovered the cross-cutting policy document in a public session. In short, I wonder: how can we continue this way? Unless, Minister, it is enough to include in the Constitution that Parliament now only renders an advisory opinion on the financial laws! It'll come back to the same. I think, Mr Minister, that this feeling is shared by all the political groups. We no longer want sub-budgeting; we no longer want fiascos like the 3% dividend tax; I know you don't, either. But then why take the risks that necessarily result from such an emergency? Let's get back to the bottom. As I indicated earlier, this amending finance bill is very short and is intended to ensure the end of the 2018 fiscal year. With regard to the macroeconomic component, the High Council for Public Finance estimates that the 1.7% growth assumption for 2018 is a bit high, and that 1.6% growth is "more likely" – that is the one adopted by INSEE. However, estimates of expenditures and revenues, and therefore of balances, are considered "perceived". Finally, it may be 2019 that we need to worry about: the GLP for 2019 is also based on a growth forecast of 1.7%, while the European Commission expects growth to slow down in the EU. In view of the economic situation since the submission of the 2019 budget last September, would it not be prudent, minister, to expect a growth of 1.6% for next year? The public deficit forecast for 2018 remains what it was in the original finance law, at 2.6% of GDP. Nevertheless, the structural effort is virtually zero, even though the High Council notes that the road to reducing the structural balance to the medium-term objective remains important. The government deficit is improving by EUR 5.6 billion compared to the initial forecast of EUR 80 billion under the Finance Act. This decrease is due in particular to the sale of Safran shares and the good maintenance of tax revenues. VAT revenue, which could be slightly lower than expected, would be offset by operating costs of local authorities somewhat less dynamic than expected. Let me turn to the various articles, starting with a few remarks on the article on the adjustment of the resources of the energy transition trust account, as a result of the revision of the estimate of its expenditure. Approximately EUR 600 million have not been spent, which fully justifies an adjustment of the revenue allocated to this account for 2018. But green taxation has increased by almost EUR 8 billion in recent years, of which only EUR 1 billion has been allocated to the energy transition. If you want citizens not to feel that they are being subjected to punitive taxation, if you want there to be a chance that they will join these tax increases, then these resources must really and fully be used to develop green alternatives. Minister, do not impose the ecological transition: accompany it effectively! With regard to Article 3, which ratifies a decree on the remuneration of services rendered by the State services, you open a significant debate if it is transposed to the source levy of income tax: I am committed to applying the right principle of equality, and I have tabled an amendment to the 2019 Finance Bill to introduce a tax credit for businesses equivalent to the costs of managing the source levy of income tax: this is a service rendered by businesses to the State, and it is therefore fair to provide compensation for this burden. I come to the reduction of the vacancy of job authorizations of 10805 ETPT – the annual full-time equivalent worked – in accordance with Article 11 of the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022. This new provision will make it possible to restore its full scope to the parliamentary authority to set an annual ceiling on employment authorizations per department, which will no longer be disconnected from reality by vacations sometimes accumulated over the years. Let us understand well: the reduction in vacancy in job authorizations cannot be counted as a strict reduction in the number of PTSDs. I will conclude by referring to the appropriations for the Defence mission and quoting the speaker of our group, during the discussion of the first part of the PLF for 2018: "As far as defence is concerned, you are planning only 200 million euros in addition to raising the appropriations for OPEX to 650 million, while everyone knows that this expenditure amounts to about 1.1 billion euros; It is therefore between 400 and 450 million euros that should be added. Here we are! Since then, we have adopted the military programming law whose Article 4, which sets the annual provision necessary for the financing of OPEX and internal missions, provides that "In management, the net additional costs, excluding payroll credits entered in the finance law for internal and net missions of reimbursements of international organisations, not covered by this provision, are subject to inter-ministerial financing.[...]" And yet, Minister, in this PLFR, you plan to cover the need for funding for OPEX and internal missions only by cancelling other defence funding. This leads me to question myself in several ways. What is section 4 of the MPA for if you do not comply with its application? What is the point of the law if we do not apply it ourselves? More concretely, do you think that our armed forces, deployed in many theatres of operation, are so well equipped that the amputation of the €319 million "Equipment of Forces" programme 146 will not have any effect? [[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] In the wake of the commemorations of the centenary of the Armistice of 1918, the national tribute paid not only to our Poilus but also to all the soldiers who died for France, and especially to those who fell in combat this year, I sincerely believe that our soldiers deserve the respect they deserve and that we would all have an interest in providing the necessary funds to carry out their mission in the service of peace and our values.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u209	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u210	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u211	Prior to that, I would like to go back to the conditions for reviewing this amending finance bill because, once again, Parliament has been trampled by an executive that is likely to be overwhelmed by its own pace. On Wednesday, at 11:54 a.m., we received in our e-mails the text of this PLFR, presented the same morning in the Council of Ministers, while Secretary of State Olivier Dussopt was to present it to us at seventeen, or five hours later. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In this regard, Mr.Darmanin, I would like to remind you of your absence from the 2018 amending finance bill, an absence that certainly reflects a lack of interest and even a certain contempt for the republican institutions. Unless Mr. Dussopt served as a fuse in the face of our foreseeable anger! Mr Darmanin, having yourself been a Member of Parliament, you could not ignore our reaction to such delays. Allow me to clarify once again the aberration of these deadlines so that our fellow citizens understand well what the executive's consideration of parliamentarians is. We have had less than 24 hours to analyse the 137 pages of this amending budget and to amend it for debate in committee. The deadline for consideration at the sitting was not much higher, with the deadline for tabling amendments set for Saturday. But if there had been only that, we could have admitted it again, knowing that we could rely on the great availability and the extreme reactivity of our collaborators and on the excellence of their work. The problem is that, during this necessary time of work, we Members had to be in committee, in order to examine the non-attached articles of the PLF and, at the same time, in the Chamber, to defend our amendments on the second part of the finance bill. [[Smile]] It should be recalled that our parliamentary group – and this is not the only one – has only two Members in the Finance Committee. But we do not have the gift of ubiquity and we do not always reply in the form of holograms. So how do you want us to work calmly and properly defend our proposals and analyses? Because, Minister, we are still talking about the budget, and, more specifically, about the adjustments you made to the 2018 budget. However, the 2.7 billion euros of cancellations of credits in key sectors such as "Work and employment", "Research and higher education" or "Justice", and the reductions in the employment ceiling are not a bit of a candle. In addition, when you open credits, it's to repay the debt! And to say that, in your constitutional reform, you proposed to reduce the deadline for the review of the PLF to fifty days! You will be able to communicate that before, the budgetary adjustments were made through advance orders, if you do not allow Members to amend the original and amending finance bills, that is pointless. There is no need to move two steps forward and to step back by three. Especially since, on the morning of this famous Wednesday, we all greeted Jean Jaurès and Georges Clemenceau for the quality of their exchanges. I very much fear that such haste will go back to the idea of how a truly democratic parliament would function!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u212	What would Clemenceau think of this PLFR?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u213	I pity you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, for so many contradictions and for having to take on the language of the Government, because I cannot believe that you do not share our view. How can we understand this sad episode, when the amending finance bill is a usual exercise? Either the Government is terrified, disorganized, overwhelmed by its own rhythm, or it has the will to tarnish the parliamentary debate, imposing such a tempo on us! And yet, the group of France Insoumise held this tempo.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u214	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u215	If the whole opposition has left the committee to protest against senseless and untenable deadlines, our group has tabled and defended amendments. The rapporteur-general has also stressed the quality of our work, which I thank him for. Now I'm going to the bottom. This amending finance bill, which contains massive budget cuts of which I have already mentioned the amount – 2.7 billion euros – is, in particular, abolishing public jobs. On the other hand, it drastically lowers the employment ceilings, which reduces the flexibility of the administrations to hire. This is probably a sign, a way of preparing for the implementation of the CAP 2022 report, including the planned abolition of staff posts. Here are some of the effects of your corrections – the main ones, because we didn't have time to analyze them all. While all the territorial public institutions in Greater Paris are at risk of losing their balance for a total of 55 million euros, you are reducing transfers to local and regional authorities by 200 million euros compared to what was planned in the PLF for 2018. In my constituency, the public territorial establishment Is Together risks losing 9.2 million euros while its poverty rate is one of the most important in the metropolis. Another effect is that you abolish €1.3 million in staff credits for judicial justice, while the Republic no longer even has enough to protect its children. In Seine-Saint-Denis, always, the children's judges have recently called for help. The keeper of the seals, after answering that she was not responsible, sent them back to the department. If a minister is not responsible, then what's the point? With this money, know that you could hire an additional 18 judges. Another effect is that you withdraw €200 million from the "Research and Higher Education" mission. It's almost logical, you'll tell me, given the number of students discouraged by Parcoursup, who join the private sector. Nevertheless, the universities of Lille and Rennes are undergoing recovery plans, which are true cures of austerity, and are almost under the supervision of the State. Retirements are not replaced, staff are overloaded, outreach services for students close. Apotheosis, finally: while the urgency to combat climate change is now a certainty, you are withdrawing €200 million from the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". That is the cruel – I would even say cynical – reality of the figures in this amending budget. You say that France's budgetary balance is improving compared to the initial forecasts. We answer that your accounting decisions add misery to misery. You'll probably hear about it on November 17. Because if you are arguing for €2.1 billion in appropriations to offset the 2.7 billion cancellations, there is still a 600 million missing. Moreover – and above all – these new credits do not improve the lives of French and French people. The money put on the table is only used to meet the requirements of the European budgetary treaties – 700 million euros for the revenue levy for the European Union – or to finance the debt, with an extension of 453 million euros. Finally, you sell 2.35% of Safran's capital, a highly strategic company. In summary, this amending budget is in line with your mantra: "less public expenditure, less public expenditure, less public expenditure, and even less public expenditure. » So, both in form and content, we disagree with this amending budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u216	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u217	Before I turn to the heart of our bill on amending finance, allow me to return for a moment to this weekend of commemorations at which the President of the Republic issued a strong call for peace. You will quickly understand, ladies and gentlemen, why I want to come back to this point. First of all, because we share, of course, this desire to unite all our forces to achieve peace, multilateralism and cooperation among countries rather than let the retreat and nationalism flourish. Secondly, and above all, because all calls for peace and living together will be in vain if they do not combine with policies that really fight against inequalities and injustices. In France, 9 million of our citizens live below the poverty line, 5 million of them do not have a job or suffer from insecurity. In Europe, the figures are equally alarming, with 17 million unemployed officially registered by Eurostat and 87 million people living below the poverty line, i.e. receiving less than 60% of their country's median wage. And during that time, the rich have never been so rich. There has never been so much wealth created, but it is literally confiscated by a few, to the detriment of all those who work. In the past, there were the famous 200 families; Today, there are the 500 richest families in France, whose capital exceeds the total state expenditure. It is unbearable, as is the over-militarization of the world, which was also a reality in 1910, when arms manufacturers wanted war to run their factories. Today, like a century ago, the arms trade is again expanding. The arms race is re-launched, under the impetus of the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), which we follow dotically, like the military exercise organized in Norway, in which 3000 French soldiers participated, alongside an American nuclear aircraft carrier. In these circumstances, it is not surprising that there is an additional cost of OPEX. Our country makes the choice of aligning itself in this race, with a military budget rising sharply. Indeed, we choose to further increase our nuclear deterrents. Planning 14.5 million euros a day until 2025, is it really useful? Peace and living together will not prosper on such a land, and nationalisms will not retreat as weapons, violence, poverty and poverty proliferate. This deleterious climate, this climate of constant tension, of economic war, is conducive to the rise of nationalisms and extreme-rights. It goes in 2018 as in 1910, as in 1930. That's why we have to act now! It is now that we must defuse this exasperation, by providing good answers to a suffering that is very real. We must go beyond words, however powerful and lyrical they may be, because when words no longer carry, it is the blows that go away. Here we study the PLFR of your first budget in full year. This is an opportunity to reorient your policy, because your budget for 2018 does not bring, far from it, the best expected living. It does so all the less as the French lose purchasing power despite all the measures you can take. At the same time, new scandals of tax evasion are breaking out – the Football leaks or the CumEx files, this fraud which deprived eleven European countries of 55 billion euros of revenue. Fifty-five billion! It leaves us dreaming... I am also thinking of the German tax authorities who have just sent France a list of 1100 tax exiles within the framework of Panama Papers. When are you finally going to take steps to ban taxpayers and businesses from placing money in tax havens, offshore areas within the European Union, as we proposed last spring? We would have liked to have found in this bill the billions of euros taken from these multinationals who, through European tax havens such as Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands or Malta, pay less tax than our SMEs. But there's none of this. And with your anti-fraud law, it's not about to happen – that's precisely why we didn't vote for it. We would have liked to find in this PLFR a few extra billion, recovered from the accounts of these fraudsters, that we could inject into the economy to increase the pensions of our pensioners and the salaries of nurses, or to hire teachers instead of removing 1,800 posts – they were right to protest today. Instead, minister, you proposed this weekend to track down those who show up on Facebook in swimsuit on a yacht. Frankly, do you really expect to find a picture of Bernard Arnault in a swimsuit on his yacht to dismantle his tax optimization circuits?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u218	Probably not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u219	In my opinion, you can wait a long time. You are going to tell us that we must wait, that we must trust you, that things are also moving forward in Europe. Except that at the rate at which they move forward, we will still be there in a century, especially knowing that unanimity is needed in Europe to settle tax issues! Remind me, minister, how long has the draft consolidated common corporate tax base been on the table? Since 2011 officially, and in reality since 1975! And we have just learned that the GAFA tax is postponed to 2020 or even 2021! No, the necessary measures must no longer be postponed until tomorrow: there is an urgent need! It is now that peace is threatened, tensions are growing, and the most extreme ideas on the right are swelling and feeding on despair. The urgency is to restore hope; It is to show that finally a state or a European Parliament will hear this anger and mobilize to fight against the financialisation of the economy, to reduce inequalities, to fight unemployment, poverty, to restore real public services, humane and effective, in all countries, in all our cities and villages. The urgency is also to meet the climate challenge. It is not possible to hope to gain half a degree by reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by making policy choices exclusively focused on the profitability of capital, to the detriment of human beings and the planet. The amending budget you are presenting to us does not correct the choices made so far, that is little to say. You show your willingness to fight climate change at any time, but you cancel €600 million of funding from the Energy Transition Support programme. Why not mobilise these funds? Six hundred million euros is equivalent to 75% of the cost of the green transition tax credit. What is your logic, when, according to many experts, in order to achieve our climate objectives, we would have to double the state's current effort in the ecological transition? Instead of a positive ecology, you opt for a punitive ecology. You prefer to increase fuel taxes massively rather than invest more in renewable energy and transport infrastructure. How can we not understand the anger of the French, the workers, the pensioners who tell you loud and clear that they are tired of playing the adjustment variables of your budget? And they're not the only ones! Gas-fired people have seen their bills jump by 24% since the beginning of the year. In nine months, electricity prices increased by 42%. And it's not the energy check that will compensate for these increases... All the French suffer the rise in inflation, twice as fast as a year ago at the same time. It's always the same that you're calling for effort, until you're sick. Of the EUR 14 billion in savings for austerity in the budget for 2019, EUR 3.5 billion comes from the quasi-freezing of social benefits, be it pensions, APLs or family allowances. And during this time, for the first of the ropes, it is always the feast: their heritage and their wealth are only growing. That is exactly what feeds anger and threatens our social pact. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It is still time to avoid the irreparable, but there is an urgent need. And this begins with a review of this amending budget, with a determined focus on the human being and the preservation of our planet. That is the meaning of the proposals that the Communist deputies will make to you during the examination of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u221	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Labaronne, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u222	No, I'm not nostalgic about the time when the amending finance laws were correcting the insinuity of the forecasts of the original finance law. No, I am not nostalgic about the time when the number and length of the articles of the collective budget were an opportunity to introduce measures that had not been adopted in the original finance law. No, I am not nostalgic about the time when the advance decrees allowed Parliament to circumvent its opinion in order to force unpopular catch-up measures. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So, yes, for all these reasons, I would like to pay tribute to the exemplary nature of this PLFR. Example, because the macroeconomic forecasts of the finance law have proved to be correct. Example, for the first time in thirty years, this bill consists of a simple closing of public accounts and does not include any tax measures. This is an example, because it is reduced to its briefest expression, with only nine articles that make little change to the original budget that we voted for. Finally, an example is the fact that, for the first time in years, it has not been accompanied by an advance decree, which ensures better respect for the role of Parliament and ensures that all measures to land the budget are submitted to parliamentary debate. This is an unprecedented fact since the entry into force of the LOLF in the early 2000s. It must, of course, be seen as a consequence of genuine budgeting in the original finance law. This sincerity makes it possible to meet the initial budgetary commitments without resorting to new appropriations or cancellations to cover urgent expenditure at the end of the financial year. This exemplary character responds precisely to the long-standing criticisms expressed by parliamentarians, who complained that the PLFR introduced new fiscal and budgetary provisions at the end of the year. The 2019 PLFR is not a catch-up session, a broom car, a project of faith in finance bis, as in the past. Especially since nearly 4000 amendments were tabled on the PLF, a record under the Fifth Republic. The democratic debate has therefore taken place. Therefore, the PLFR goes back to the very essence of a year-end collective, which is to close the year that ends. A finance law is put at the service of an ambition, particularly economic. Here I want to highlight the concrete results that our policy is beginning to produce: for the first time in a decade, the French economy will have a growth rate of more than 1.5% for three consecutive years; For the first time since 2000, the government deficit will be below 3% of GDP over three consecutive years; and for the first time since the beginning of the Fifth Republic, the increase in public expenditure will be less than 1% for three consecutive years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u223	And for the umpteenth time, the purchasing power of the French will fall!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u224	On the employment front – because the real social injustice is unemployment, you are right – the results are beginning to be convincing: the employment rate of people aged 15 to 64 has never been so high since the 1980s; In 2018, there are 2.35 million promises of employment in CDI; 1 million CDI were signed in the second quarter of 2018, for the first time since 2000; In 2017, it was no less than 5400 additional jobs that were created in the industry, even though it had been destroying it for 16 years. Improvement on the employment front is a direct consequence of the good macroeconomic performance we have achieved. The machine to invest in our economy is restarting: there is an increase in the investments of our companies; Foreign investment has never been more important in ten years; Financing for SMEs and start-ups has experienced the strongest acceleration ever – in six months, companies have received €2 billion in financing. The industry is experiencing a rebound thanks to the new industrial winback strategy. A survey shows that the proportion of industrialists who consider themselves less competitive than their European counterparts is in sharp decline. Our openness to the international community is improving. Mrs Louwagie, I have not understood the meaning of your remarks on the deterioration of our trade balance, since INSEE says exactly the opposite: our exports are increasing and the contribution of foreign trade to growth is becoming positive. There is also a rebound in consumption due to improved household purchasing power. It is likely to be reinforced by the sharp fall in fuel prices, which is beginning to be observed, on the one hand, because of the fall in the price of crude oil and, on the other, because of the fall in the dollar following the American elections. [[Ms. Stella Dupont applauds]] Finally, Les Échos indicates at the moment that France is returning to a very interesting pace of growth. This is obviously the result of the action we are taking – but not only! It is also the fruit of the work of those who get up early in the morning, as well as those who invest, innovate, take risks, who may be tired of economic decline and who tell us "Continue to reform the country, he needs it." They can count on us. We will vote for this PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u225	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u226	I'll start with the form, minister. The 2018 PLFR was presented to us on Wednesday 7 November at 17:15, with the committee scheduled to examine it at 09:00 on Friday 9 November. It has been less than two days to study the text and draft some amendments. Except that the Government considers that Parliament is of no use, that there is no need to amend and that its texts are words of gospel – I am sorry to use this expression in this House – it is not satisfactory to work in such conditions. The deadline for tabling amendments was Thursday, 8 November, at 15.00, less than 24 hours after the presentation of the text, and while the Finance Committee was meeting to discuss the non-attached articles of the PLF for 2019. The meeting of the previous day ended at one o'clock in the morning and resumed at nine o'clock on Thursday to close at thirteen o'clock. We therefore had two hours, between 13 and 15 hours, to study the text and to table amendments. We are far from respecting Parliament's rights! For the public sitting, again, unacceptable deadlines were imposed on us: the examination in committee ended on Friday at 10.30 a.m. and the deadline for tabling amendments was set for Saturday 10 November at 17.00, or 29.00 a.m. Minister, the Government cannot flout the rights of Parliament at this point. I am not far from thinking that this is a form of contempt. Have you accepted such working conditions as a Member of Parliament? For having known you at another time, I'm sure not. Why impose such strict time limits on Parliament? In addition, we had to examine at the same time – an expression dear to the President of the Republic – the non-attached articles of the PLF for 2019 in the Finance Committee and, at the same time always, the appropriations of the missions in open session. The President of the Republic uses this expression to link two terms: one thing and the other. The Finance Committee had three subjects to deal with at the same time! What does this rush mean? What can justify such an emergency? A number of colleagues had to leave the committee, in full consideration of the unattached articles, to come to a public sitting to defend an amendment and vote, before returning to committee. It's not proper, it's not serious! If you wanted to do anti-parliamentarianism, you wouldn't do it otherwise. That is precisely what we are accused of: overtaking things. On the substance, I recognize that this PLFR is different from the previous ones, with only nine articles, and without tax measures. However, there are many warning signs, which would have justified a somewhat more intense debate. First signal: the erosion of economic growth. Mr. Labaronne told us that growth had resumed. For my part, I note that the European Commission maintained its growth forecast for 2018 at 2.1% in the euro area, while the High Council for Public Finance estimated a growth of 1.6% in France in its opinion of 31 October 2018. So we are stalling in relation to the euro area, and we must admit that. The second warning element is the increase in public debt. Public debt will peak at €175 billion, or 98.6% of GDP. And this is due to the increase in public spending, which stood at EUR 20 billion in 2018 and will be EUR 25 billion in 2019. That is to say, your communication about your "total control of expenditure" is broken down by budgetary reality! The third element is the deficit, which amounts to EUR 60.6 billion, or 2.6% of GDP. However, between the original finance law and this amending finance bill, we have recorded €7 billion in additional revenue as a result of growth. And, with a constant fiscal scope, taking into account inflation, all tax revenues – VAT, corporate taxes, income taxes, ICTPE – naturally grow by 30 billion euros. So it's not serious, minister! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, with regard to purchasing power, I agree with the questions raised by Valérie Rabault: the reduction of EUR 50 million in the appropriations for the energy check is a very bad signal before 17 November. No one can understand your punitive taxation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u227	Mr Bruno Bilde, not registered, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u228	"Do me good politics, I'll make you good finances! » This famous formula, kneaded with common sense, was pronounced 188 years ago, duration that separates the old world from the July monarchy and the new macroist world. But, in terms of public money management, the gulf of history seems much more vertiginous. This amending finance bill provides a significant illustration of this. We have been subjected to the language elements of the Government spokesman, contemptating Mr. Griveaux, who, after insulting those who "smoking cigarettes and driving diesel," said that the text did not include "no new tax provisions, and therefore no new levies". I regret to remind you, Minister, that in 2018 you took 4.5 billion euros from the pockets of the French; It's a tax baton of unprecedented brutality. In France, the burden of compulsory levies represented 45.3% of GDP in 2017. Dissolute performance, we are second on the podium in the global tax pressure. It must be noted that you want to win the gold baton this year! Today, only a year and a half after Emmanuel Macron's election, our compatriots are exsangued, especially pensioners, whom you have mistreated with a hard work that goes beyond understanding, especially with the disastrous rise of the CSG. By increasing fuel taxes and, therefore, by contributing to the price boom at the pump, you wanted to play with the difficulties and suffering of the French. Gas is your daily tax, which affects those who cannot go to work as an electric scooter. Motorists and bikers, whom you have been martyring for a year with the rise in the price of technical inspection and the limitation to 80 km-hour, will receive a new coup de massue in 2019 with the increase in tolls. On 17 November, angry France will march all over the country to protest against this intolerable racket, before sending you the bill in the ballot box next May. And this amending finance bill attacks another category of French, French people who give their lives for our security and the defence of our country's interests abroad, French people who can be killed as part of their profession, French people who are the pride of the national community as a whole: of course I want to talk about our soldiers. As we commemorate the centenary of the victory of 1918 and the heroic commitment of the French army during the Great War, you decide to inflict a double penalty on the Ministry of Armed Forces by withdrawing manu militari 800 million euros, namely 400 million for budget cancellations and 400 million for the payment of external operations. I recall that the President of the Republic, the head of the French armies, had nevertheless committed himself to sanctuarising the defence budget. Once again, the fine words were rolled off by a ruthless budget translation. You are simply betraying the commitments enshrined in the military programming law, which has only just been voted on by Parliament. It would have been justified to maintain inter-ministerial solidarity for the payment of external operations, which address vital security issues for our country, faced with the war against international jihadism. By sweeping this strong symbol of national unity, you are imposing new financial efforts on our armies, which should be fully supported. [[Mr Ludovic Pajot applauds]] In the end, this finance bill does not correct anything, but it degrades the essential: the security of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u229	Mrs Stella Dupont, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u230	We are beginning the review of the 2018 Financial Amendment Bill, which is intended to ensure the end of the annual fiscal year. It corrects, upwards or downwards, the expenditures and revenues provided for in the original Finance Act. It seems to me important to point out that, for many years, this bill was often, and wrongly, treated as a catch-up bill of the original finance bill – it has been mentioned by many colleagues. This practice was far removed from the spirit of balance in the budget texts of the Fifth Republic. In order to best respond to our challenges and to deliver on our commitments, the executive must be rigorous and fiscally accountable. To the extent that it meets both these requirements, the 2018 Finance Amendment Bill marks a break with previous practices. On the one hand, the Government is rigorous in the method used: it has not included any tax provisions in this piece of legislation, as has been said. It contains very few articles and respects a tight format, which fully corresponds to the spirit of the law and to the adjustment character that a PLFR should always have. Moreover, for the first time in more than thirty years, the Government did not use the mechanism of the advance order, and Mrs. Rabault did not like it. The use of this procedure had increased and systematized due, in many cases, to insufficient account being taken of budgetary uncertainties. This practice raised questions and could be seen as an exception to the principle of parliamentary authorization of expenditure. In other words, expenses were incurred without Parliament's authorization, and that went beyond a simple adjustment. On the other hand, this text is that of responsibility. After France's exit from the excessive government deficit procedure, it is fully part of the process of restoring public accounts to order, which our majority is committed to following. In accordance with our commitment to responsible management, the ministries are self-financing the appropriations as much as possible through corresponding cancellations, and we thank them for this. For example, only 16 missions are allocated, seven of which are worth more than EUR 100 million. For example, the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities", of which I am the Special Rapporteur, is the subject of an opening of € 261 million, mainly linked to the dynamics of the activity premium. This end-of-management PLFR format was made possible in particular by the restoration of the sincerity of the budget, a result of an effort made during the preparation of the original finance law, with the expenditure budgeted at its right level. Ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the commemorations, solemn and mobilising, which led us all, elected and citizens, to step back, to gather together and to think of those who preceded us and gave us so much, we know that we are at a crossroads, in France and in Europe, and that our future is in the hands of all of us, French and European citizens. We parliamentarians have a particular responsibility: to focus on the essentials, to redress public finances, to support the economy and work, to reform our public services, to make our energy transition a reality, to ensure the sustainability of our social model and solidarity with the most fragile. These are some of the great challenges we intend to face. [[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We therefore have, as a majority and as opposed, a very great responsibility, at a time when the world we know can shift towards a retreat on ourselves, towards each one for himself, towards the law of the strongest, here in France and in the world. We still have the choice, hence the very great responsibility that we, ladies and gentlemen, must show in our actions, in our decisions and in our remarks. I was outraged by the tweet sent on 8 November by the Chairman of the Finance Committee, which aimed to divide the French and stigmatise asylum seekers, on the basis of false information. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] In 2019, Mr.President, the allowance for adults with disabilities will increase by 4.7%; active solidarity income and assistance for asylum seekers, of about 1.6%. The peak line is narrow enough for all the democrats that we are, ladies and gentlemen, so that we do not stir up fears and that we do not throw people against each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u231	And don't give lessons to others!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u232	Moral lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u233	We must be accountable and effective. Today, the Government adopts a responsible working method by presenting to the deputies a text consistent with the spirit of the LOLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u234	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u235	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So, I believe, we too have to take a responsible approach to the text. That is why I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote alongside our majority on this amending finance bill as introduced to us earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u236	It's fresh, my fish! It's fresh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u237	You're the one who decides and you're the one who's lying! That's a lot, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u238	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u239	I now call the clauses of the amending finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u240	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 215.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u241	Paradoxically, Minister, you are honouring certain obligations. In accordance with the Organic Law on Public Financial Programming and Governance, the introductory article includes a table that presents the general government balance for 2018, with forecasts of the structural balance, the cyclical balance, the balance of exceptional and temporary measures, and the actual balance. After which – the report is well done – you refer to an average annual decrease of 0.5 percentage points, which in 2018 led you to reduce the deficit to 2.6% of GDP, for a total reduction, as you say, of 4.6 percentage points of GDP in nine years. In the end, it does make an average annual decrease of 0.5 points – but you are not responsible for the previous effort. As for the 0.2-point improvement observed in the PLFR for 2018, it is far from being in line with France's commitment under the stability programme 2018-2022 transmitted to the European Commission in April 2018. The Government had assured that it would reduce the government deficit to 2.3 per cent of GDP in 2018. However, with a deficit of 2.6%, it still needs to be reduced by 0.3 percentage points. In other words, the forecast of this article is down by 0.3 points. Minister, we are a number of people on these benches who have voted to ratify the treaty. Why didn't you respect it when the economic conditions were favourable? I can understand that, in some years, it has been impossible to achieve this. But you admitted very clumsyly that this year you were unable to deliver on your commitments given the low growth rate: so last year, when it reached 2.3%, why didn't you honour them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u242	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u243	This amendment has already been tabled by Mrs Dalloz during the examination of the PLF for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u244	Which proves my constancy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u245	Even if I were already unfavorable, I considered it to have meaning, since it was the budgetary policy to be carried out. But what is the point today in tabling an amendment on the fiscal policy of 2018? Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u247	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u248	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u249	I would like to point out – as we say in good time and in good time – that the most important thing is to reduce our structural deficit. This year, however, it is decreasing by 0.1 percentage points, when we committed ourselves to reducing it by 0.5 percentage points in one year or, by way of derogation, by 0.7 percentage points over two years. We are far from it, including in the 2019 Finance Bill! That is the question that our colleague is asking you. The role of the opposition is to constantly stress the harsh state of public finances. We are only at the beginning of the beginning of the improvement of recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u250	It's something already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u251	At a rate of 0.1 points per year, how long will it take: 20 years? Until then, a lot will have happened! To put it more clearly, the savings you are making are very insufficient. The analysis shows that in order to achieve 0.4 percentage points of GDP, savings would have to be doubled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u252	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 366 on the additional article after the opening article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u253	This is an appeal amendment to determine the Government's position on the role of the High Council for Public Finance. At the moment, the Council is issuing an opinion on macroeconomic scoping and revenue estimates, but it is not within its competence to decide on the level of expenditure – I am not talking about whether the policy is good or not, but whether the appropriations proposed to Parliament make it possible to provide the public services as they are. Everyone knew, for example, in the original finance law that, even if you increased the funds of the OPEX by 200 million, bringing them to 650 million – we will talk at length about this huge problem of defence appropriations – this item would reach at the end of the year 1.1 or 1.2 billion. You are now proposing to open 400 million to finance them. This does not comply with the military orientation and programming law, since the money is redeployed within the Ministry of Defence. I come back to my question, Minister: Does the Government wish to extend the powers of the High Council for Public Finance to enable it to decide on the level of expenditure? I cited the example of OPEX because it is one of the best known, but I could also have mentioned the allocations that concern the labour budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u255	Member of Parliament, this is a question that you have asked every financial law since the creation of the High Council for Public Finance in 2013. Nice consistency, again... And you always get the same answer: an organic law, not an ordinary law, is needed to change the powers of the High Council of Public Finance. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u256	But on the bottom?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u257	We are addressing the consideration of the first part of the amending finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u258	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 240.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u259	It is necessary to continue to increase the resources of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – AFITF – because a flashed motorist can demand a useful fine from the State, which will allow the maintenance of the roads and not the deleveraging of the State or the installation of future radars. Since the reduction of speed limitation to 80 km/h on national roads, radars have flashed twice as much, and in some places up to five times as many vehicles as last year. The revenue generated by this scheme would exceed EUR 1.5 billion, possibly up to EUR 2 billion. It is necessary to stop considering road users as travelling purses. On the other hand, for many motorists, infrastructure financing is a real emergency. The external audit report commissioned by the Ministry of Transport following the fall of the Genoa viaduct makes the worst fear. Before the age of 20, in 2037, 60% of pavements will be severely degraded if there is no policy change. There is an urgent need for 17 per cent of the unlicensed network, 2000 kilometres, to be borrowed by one in six vehicles, and for 7 per cent of the bridges, which are at risk of collapse. Is it normal for a bridge to be repaired only twenty-two years after the first degradations occur? [[Applause from non-attached Members]] While the Government wished to increase the amount allocated for road repairs to $1 billion instead of $800 million, that was not enough. Sooner or later, work will have to be done. The more we wait, the more the taxpayer will be punctured. Saving lives on the road also means stopping to consider speed as the only criterion for driving mortality, to consider the condition of infrastructure and roads as an aggravating factor. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u260	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u261	At this stage, the adoption of this amendment on the end-of-year PLFR would have the sole effect of putting the special trust account in deficit of EUR 129 million. Nothing more, nothing less. Whatever we think of radars, which also save lives, your amendment is inoperative and would not achieve the objective you claim to pursue. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u262	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u263	When the French are filling up, they are also filling up taxes, with the internal consumption tax on energy products and the VAT at 20%. And the ICTPE pays off! In 2018, nearly 33.8 billion will abound the state funds – an additional 33.8 billion from French revenues. Only 20 per cent of this amount will go to the energy transition trust account. You can tell me that the rest of the revenue will be donated to communities for health, education or public investment, and that there will be no loss. Luckily! Let road users at least have this poor consolation! However, this disguised tax leaves a bitter taste. The amounts collected by the State are already large enough. In 2016, France received the sad title of European Tax Champion. More recently, a parliamentary report on the 2019 Finance Bill revealed that the highest mandatory levy rate of 45.3% of GDP had been reached in 2017. With the ICTPE, you will again inflict a double sentence on us in 2018, and you will maintain it in 2019. The removal of the housing tax, which you constantly invoke, makes no sense if it coincides with the increase in other taxes. [[Bruno Bilde applauds]] I hope you will hear the grunts of the French, road users, pensioners, because there is an emergency. The peaceful demonstrators who were waiting for the President of the Republic in Albert, in the Somme, should have made it clear to you. Their distress was hard to see. At the same time, it was reported that in some departmental offices, such as Mr. Griveaux's, compensation had increased by more than 49%. It's a shame, and it's a real provocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u264	I have before me three amendments to delete the article, Nos 266, 299 and 307. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 266.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u265	The purpose of this appeal amendment is to delete Article 2, which implicitly authorizes that the appropriations for the energy transition trust account, some 600 million that would not be used, are not necessarily redeployed to the energy transition. The French will be happy to learn that the ICTPE, which feeds this account, will not be affected by ecology. The rapporteur-general has explained this to us: we cannot change this amount. So, what guarantee do we have that these 600 million will be properly spent on the ecological transition? We could have allocated them to the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", but the budget of the mission is cut! That is why we propose the deletion of the article. Moreover, we are wondering – and the Government should imitate us – why these 600 million were not consumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u266	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 299.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u267	For the same reasons as my colleague, we would have liked to have received guarantees on the allocation of the $600 million from the ICTPE to the energy transition trust account. Will this amount be allocated to the general budget in order to reduce the government's deficit or debt? We don't know anything specific. Because we would have preferred them to be allocated to the energy transition, we propose the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u268	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 307.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u269	At the moment, Minister, we are talking only about one thing in France: the increase in the price of fuel and, more broadly, the price of oil or gas energy. So, in reading this article, did I jump into the air: since the Energy Regulatory Commission – CRE – estimated that the forecast expenditure of this account was overestimated by 600 million, was it not an opportunity to allocate this amount to operations facilitating the energy transition? You don't do anything about it: you recover these $600 million from the general budget to fund other expenses or to reduce the deficit a little bit. It's indefensible! You can guess how this article will be used: it provides proof that the main purpose of energy taxation is not to finance the energy transition, but to close holes in the state budget, through fiscal productivity! That is why I propose the deletion of the article, knowing that my real goal is rather that these 600 million be reassigned to the energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u270	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u271	This is an article that deserves to be stopped because its title, "Adjustment of Revenues to the Energy Transition Trust Account", is extremely ambiguous. This would have to be changed because, contrary to what one might believe in reading it, this account does not finance the entire energy transition. As Charles de Courson said at the moment, this is in fact an article on standard expenses, decided by the CRE. A balance sheet is prepared at the end of the year to determine which portion of the TICEP income is to be allocated to the energy transition trust account. This year has seen a surplus of EUR 600 million, which is allocated to the general budget, but to finance – I think the minister will confirm it to you – all other environmental policies that are not part of this special account – which, once again, has nothing to do with the energy transition, in the sense that it is conceived in our public policies. The title of this article should really be changed. Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u273	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u274	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u275	You are telling us that this money is going to be spent on ecological transition missions, and that the minister will explain to us. Can the minister explain to us? The product of the TICEP must abound this special account, and be reassigned to missions of the same nature! Can we get some clarifications?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u276	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u277	There may be opposition to the Government's carbon trajectory policy, as well as to environmental taxation. This is a legitimate and interesting debate. On the other hand, some comparisons between figures in the public debate reflect a lack of intellectual honesty. So I'm going, one more time, to re-establish the facts. You will have noticed that, for the first time in ten years, the budget appropriations of the Ministry of Ecology are increasing, which is more important, since they are increasing by almost EUR 1 billion, i.e. 3.1%. A former minister of ecology, who contributes, in his current duties, to the fight against ice melting in the Arctic and Antarctic poles, where there are bears on the ice – hence the link with the effectiveness of our policies – has, in his time, experienced a 6.5% reduction in his budget at the Ministry of Ecology. Let us take the example of ecological taxation, which you refer to: the revenue it generates is 34 billion, which corresponds to the total of all state aid for public policies on ecology. There is therefore no financial operation in favour of other budgets. Mr. de Courson knows too well his files to think that the state wants to bail out his caisses – or he has gone through a small empty passage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u278	It's okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u279	I think that was a little too quick an explanation from you. None of these appropriations is intended for anything other than the ecological transition. I would also like to point out that diesel costs the State more than it does. From a health point of view, emissions of fine particles and COreduces the life expectancy of today's thirty-year-olds by two years. But, regardless of this, INSERM – the National Institute of Health and Medical Research – demonstrated in 2015 – this has had to get worse since then – that the social security cost of treating fine particulate matter and diesel diseases amounts to 2 billion. So I don't think we can make the comparison you're making. The rapporteur-general, both in committee and in this House, has explained why we have this budgetary debate now. This has nothing to do with an alleged will on our part to recover money. On the contrary, I tell you again that the 34 billion revenue goes well to the 34 billion expenditure we spend on ecology.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u280	And how are other government departments funded? It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u281	No, it's not a joke! When we embark on the ecological transition, we conduct it in many areas outside the Ministry of Ecology itself, such as housing. Everyone knows that. There are other sources of income, Mr. Woerth: income tax, VAT, corporate tax fund other public policies. You dare not go to the end of your reasoning. Are you, yes or no, in favour of the economic transformation of our country, of the transition from a carbon economy to a carbon economy? It's a pretty simple question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u282	We can't put it that way!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u283	Mr Vigier referred to a number of accompanying proposals. I see quite large differences between those who want to stop any ecological taxation and those who do not. Contrary to what President Woerth has said, Republicans do not simply propose a break in energy taxation in 2019, but also the cancellation of the ecological tax increases initiated since 2017 – that is in any case what is said in the public debate. It is a very interesting social issue, a matter of economic choice, but not, strictly speaking, a budgetary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u284	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u285	Mr President of the Committee on Finance, I do not refer to the amendments you have tabled but to the leaflets that your party is printing. There is a time when we must know how to reconcile the two hemispheres of his political group, failing which we are making it easier. You will see that I am not talking about the carbon trajectory, nor about the increase in the 2 points of VAT, which would have had an undeniable effect: imagine the situation, with a share of VAT of almost 25% on diesel and the increase in the price of the barrel due to the crises of the Middle East... Finally, I was able to read in the press that regional presidents wanted to lower environmental taxes, if the state did the same. They can vary taxes by a few cents. Except that the regions, including the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, are all in the middle of the green taxation that depends on them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u286	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u287	Mr Wauquiez, for example, has been able to reduce environmental taxes for three years. He didn't, I guess he's going to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u288	He's made other savings!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u289	Really? For example, on vocational training?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u290	If all regions were managed like the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, they would do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u291	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Congressman, it wasn't an attack! Mr Wauquiez has not lowered environmental taxation, which is a good thing because, if I understood correctly, he, like everyone else, wants us to move from a carbon economy to a carbon economy. Therefore, there must be no bad trial – and in this case, not in Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u292	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u293	Mr. Minister, your reasoning is not valid. You're saving $600 million, even if it's not your fault – it's an economy of observation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u294	That's still 10% of the share allocated to the energy transition account!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u295	The CRE has just estimated that the compensation for the increased rates for the production of electricity, in particular of wind origin, amounted to this amount... The debate is about what we're doing with those 600 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u296	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u297	You are telling us that there is no problem, because ecological tax revenues amount to 34 billion, and spending too. But that's not the point, it's to know what we're doing with those 600 million! Why are the French tired of the current situation? Because they are being sold the continuous increase in energy taxation to facilitate the energy transition. Now, 600 million of you fall from the sky, regardless of any effort to save money. You had the opportunity to use them to strengthen one of the mechanisms for energy transition, but not! You preferred to send them back in the general recipes! You thus accredit the idea, which is correct, that, broadly speaking, in the last two years, the increase in energy taxation has been spent barely 20% on the energy transition. That's the question. What is strange is that you do not realize that this is what the people think, and rightly so. Much of the energy tax is not intended for the energy transition. You have proof of that, to the tune of 600 million. That is only 2% of the $34 billion, you will tell me, but that is enough to show that your speech is not holding, that it is not understood by the French. Listen to the French! They have a lot of common sense in this. They're filling their cars, just like I do myself.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u298	What about me?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u299	You have a function car, it's different!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u300	You think I don't know my car?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u301	You have to realize what people are going through.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u302	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u303	Minister, you're on the defensive, because you're not comfortable on this. You are right on the bottom: evolution is natural. However, the measure seems brutal. You could, for example, have lowered the price of petrol while increasing the price of diesel, to ensure convergence. We proposed it to you in our amendments. We asked you about the evolution of the price of fuel, which absolutely does not finance the energy transition. You answer to us on the general budgets of the departments. But if you start allocating taxes to a particular budget, we'll soon have to say that the income tax finances half of Bercy, and so on! That is not the way to appreciate things. I don't know that taxes are affected by department. But does the evolution of taxes contribute to the evolution of public policies? In this case, does the evolution of ecological taxation correspond to a break in the pace of financing the energy transition? Not at all: only a few percent of this evolution is devoted – and again, if you want to do so – to the energy transition. That's where the bastard hurts. I would point out that this year we tabled amendments to freeze energy tax increases in 2019. You always refer to leaflets. In this House, we are not talking about leaflets, but about amendments. You pay great attention to the leaflets of the political parties, but I am more sensitive to the amendments that are tabled, which are clear and clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u304	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u305	Mrs. Dupont, you called me earlier about a scandalous tweet. In the court of tweets, or public statements, we probably have to find a lot of scandalous messages, but in this case, I was talking about indexing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u306	You know very well...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u307	So you're wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u308	That was unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u309	Let us not resume the debate. I was talking about indexing. Talk to the retirees!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u310	You know very well that by saying things like that...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u311	Madam Member, please let the Chairman of the Finance Committee speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u312	Looks like you're the only one who thinks you're a moral court! This is an extremely worrying way of thinking. What I'm saying is that you unindex certain benefits, but not others. Do it for everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u313	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u314	[[Exclaims on LT banks]] Mr de Courson, I am very surprised to see you now very much in favour of public spending. We have 600 million euros, we would have to spend them directly! I will have the opportunity to create a little florilege of your contradictions since the beginning of the PLF, Monsieur de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u315	No, I'm showing some consistency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u316	This will no doubt give rise to an interesting moment in December. But it's not very serious, Mr. de Courson, you have the right to say that you are in favour of public spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u317	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u318	After all, there are many people at The Republicans who wanted to make fuel checks. Don't get mad, Monsieur de Courson! There's 600 million, you want to spend them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u319	It's a special purpose account! Read what you're writing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u320	Don't get mad! I simply note a contradiction. I ask you to remain respectful. Don't point a finger at me, Congressman, calm down.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u321	Don't think I'm an idiot!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u322	I simply put you in front of your contradictions and see that you are in favour of public spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u323	Personally!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u324	It is not a personal fact to say that you are in favour of public spending! Fortunately, we have no swords, for you would have already provoked me in duel; I'd have feared you'd lose... Mr President, I listened carefully to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u325	Me too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u326	I simply note that you want these 600 million to become additional public expenditure. Before you say the opposite later in the debate! Moreover, we have a completely different view of things. President Woerth's remark is not entirely unfounded: if we were to find ourselves in the general budget, we would not have this debate! But this is a special-purpose account. We need to focus on the nation's overall spending. From the point of view of parliamentary authorisation, would it not be in our interest to discuss ways of avoiding these assignments? It will be the role of those who will be in my place in the years to come, as was the role of those who preceded me. I imagine Mr. Woerth has also fought a lot about the allocation of tax revenues. These discussions would prevent you from getting unnecessarily upset, Mr. de Courson, which is never good. Mr. Woerth said we should have taken advantage of it to lower the price of gasoline. This is an interesting debate, but let us remember that gasoline produces a lot of CO, while diesel emits a little less CO but a lot of fine particles. We know that both are bad for health, especially the second. But we do not want to be complicit in a health scandal – the facts are known – as some of you may have been in asbestos. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Either you're brave and you're trying to say the same thing during the presidential campaign and when you're in charge, or you're not, you're contradictory, you're changing your mind. There is even a change of opinion, sometimes, between what is printed by his political party and what is defended in the Chamber! Everyone will be able to see the differences. In any event, our debate is respectful of parliamentary authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u327	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u328	My point of order is based on Rule 58(1). You are trying to put me in front of so-called contradictions, but it is my amendment that puts you in front of yours! We are discussing a special purpose account. Your arguments are reversed! You are saying that it might have to be deleted. Do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u329	Mr de Courson, this is not a point of order, you are discussing the substance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u330	The government is in complete contradiction, and you accuse me of contradicting me! It's a personal fact. You know perfectly well that my position has been constant for twenty-six years, not since yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u331	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-12-O1058.u332	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the amending finance bill for 2018. The meeting is adjourned.
