ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Austrian Federal Government on the readmission of persons in an irregular situation (No. 320, 945). As no amendments have been made to this text, I shall put it to the vote pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u2	The next item is the debate, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, on the bill by Messrs. François de Rugy, Richard Ferrand, Christian Jacob, Marc Fesneau, Jean-Christophe Lagarde and Franck Riester to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in certain bodies outside Parliament and to simplify the procedure for their appointment (Nos. 840 and 939).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u3	I call Mr Sylvain Waserman, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u4	Mr President, the Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament, the Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, the rapporteur for the information of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, ladies and gentlemen, this bill could seem technical, if not tedious. In reality, it is singular and symbolic. Its singularity comes first from its authors: the President of the National Assembly and the presidents of four groups of our assembly. But it is also singular in its purpose: it deals with the way in which the Assembly is represented in external bodies. It is also very symbolic, because it is part of the continuity of the law for a State at the service of a society of trust. Indeed, it lays down the principle that Parliament, and no one else, must decide for itself its representations. I would also point out that we have collectively decided, in the law for a State serving a trust society, to abolish any additional compensation that Members could receive from its agencies. This choice honors us. This is the first step in rationalizing our external representations. This bill contains symbolic sections on which I would like to come back. The first point concerns parity. Together with the rapporteur of the information report of the delegation for women's rights – DDF – we can collectively welcome the inclusion in this text of the requirement for parity, as clearly and clearly as possible. This is a decisive step forward, and I would like to stress the quality of the work carried out with the DDF, which led to this text. The second point concerns pluralism. In committee, the group of the New Left and the group of La France insoumée stressed that the principle of pluralism was certainly recognized by the Assembly's rules of procedure, but they proposed that it be enshrined in the law. Although the wording of the proposed amendments was not compatible with the Rules of Procedure, we collectively chose a rather consensual wording to include this principle in the text, and we must welcome it. Two principles have governed our work. First, the creation of new bodies will depend on the thematic texts that we will have to deal with. We did not think about the possibility of creating new representations, and we did a first sorting. The authors of the bill ensured that the system was at least heterogeneous. Some of the agencies were under orders-in-council, others under the law. Some did not specify the conditions for Parliament's representation. We have chosen to move to the legislative level and harmonize our regulations. The 116 bodies concerned have different legal bases: 33 now have an exclusively regulatory basis, and they will be included in this bill; 34 already had a legislative basis, but we will anchor the presence of parliamentarians there; 43 of them required clarification as to how they were to be designated; 6 organizations were registered, but were no longer active. Finally, 15 organizations were regulated, but we chose not to include them in the legislation because they are not very active. The Law Commission made several adjustments. In particular, it has removed the reference to ministerial supervision so as not to introduce too much rigidity in the organization of the various ministries. Mr Secretary of State, just as we demand the freedom to decide for ourselves the representation of parliamentarians, we have obviously insisted on your freedom to choose the ministries of attachment. This is therefore a first step towards rationalizing and making the representation of the National Assembly and Senate in the outside world effective and transparent. An amendment, which probably does not deserve to be introduced into the law, concerns the requirement of transparency vis-à-vis all citizens: it is useful to make explicit the representation of Parliament in the various bodies and the conditions for designation. This stage will probably call for others, because to include in the law bodies that live, die and merge, involves a regular review allowing to adjust their number and representations, within the framework of thematic laws or texts like this one. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] We will go back in detail on each of the proposed amendments. This bill contains seventy-eight articles. I will have the pleasure of trying to represent the authors in this debate with dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u5	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u6	Mr President, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, Mrs rapporteur for the information of the delegation to women's rights, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that you are considering today, which is obviously supported by the Government, is singular: it was co-signed by the President of your Assembly and by four of your group presidents, and was tabled in identical terms in the Senate – it is rare enough that we should not forget to point that out. As the rapporteur said, it aims to implement the provisions of the Organic Law of 15 September 2017 on confidence in political life. The latter provides, in fact, that the participation of senators and deputies in extra-parliamentary bodies and advisory bodies is limited, as from 1 July 2018, in the name of the principle of separation of powers, only in cases where the presence of parliamentarians has been expressly provided for by law. The bill before your assembly is therefore intended to meet several requirements under this new rule set out in section LO 145 of the Electoral Code. The objectives are simple: simplification, coherence and performance. First of all, it is a matter of simplifying the rules governing the presence of parliamentarians in non-parliamentary bodies. The presence of parliamentarians is now planned in 193 organizations. For 112 agencies, this presence is provided for by law. For the remaining 81, it is a regulatory act. Over the past few decades, these figures have continued to grow. Since October 2014, no fewer than 58 new bodies have been created, 29 of them for the 2016-2017 parliamentary year alone, which must make us reflect on the proper functioning of the legislative process: we who systematically call for simplification sometimes increase complexity. Similarly, the rules governing the appointment of parliamentarians vary from one agency to another, as well as the objectives of respect for parity and pluralism within them. The absence of harmonized rules is a source of additional complexity, when it is known that the Senate and the National Assembly are called upon, at each term of office, to make 660 and 700 appointments respectively. These designations are, of course, the subject of the Government's vigilant attention, in accordance with the principle of separation of powers. The Government ensures that extra-parliamentary bodies can meet in full training, so that their decisions are legally valid. But it must be noted that the different rules that govern them make their functioning difficult to understand. Secondly, it is a matter of ensuring the presence of MPs and senators in extra-parliamentary bodies, where justified. This is the goal of coherence. The text that you are considering today, in its drafting resulting from the work of the Law Commission, proposes to legalize the presence of parliamentarians in thirty-four regulatory bodies, and to specify in the law the presence of parliamentarians for thirty bodies established by law. In these organizations, parliamentarians must bring their expertise, and that is why the law must guarantee your participation in their work. The review of all the extra-parliamentary bodies thus carried out must be an opportunity to provide for simplification. That's, you understand, the performance goal. The departments of the ministries have contributed to the work undertaken by the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate to update and supplement the data on the activities of the non-parliamentary bodies, in order to assess the real usefulness of the latter. This simplification objective is shared by the Government. The Prime Minister has thus asked all ministers, by a circular dated 24 October 2017, to continue the effort made over the past five years to abolish or reform the commissions and bodies placed with them, which it turns out to add an unproven step towards collective decision-making. The rules are clear: an advisory body under the "yellow budget" – i.e. the annex to the draft finance bill presenting the list of advisory or deliberative committees and bodies placed directly with the Prime Minister or ministers – must be removed for any creation of another by regulation. The total number of these commissions decreases each year: from 670 in mid-2012, it fell to 410 in the list annexed to the 2018 Finance Bill. This is a significant decrease, in the order of 40%. Our goal now is to reach a number of less than 400 people. The review of the current committees has helped to identify twenty-five deletions that will be implemented in the near future – we will have the opportunity to come back this morning. This bill, finally, has been enriched by the law commission: the Government can only welcome it. Last Wednesday, Mr rapporteur, the Committee on Laws adopted a number of amendments, particularly on your initiative. The Government considers them useful, and commends the Commission for this excellent work. As a result, you have led to numerous editorial improvements on the question of alternates or the attachment of organizations to a particular ministry – in accordance with the principles of independence that you have recalled. For those under regulatory authority, this work was essential. I also commend the delegation to women's rights for the work it has done to clarify – and therefore to make more effective – the way in which gender equality is applied in appointments, in accordance with the will of the vast majority of the members of this Assembly. The Government will give its opinion in favour of other amendments by the delegation to women's rights, which will be presented in a few moments: I am thinking in particular of those aimed at ensuring the pluralism of designations within bodies outside Parliament. Finally, the Government will rely on your wisdom to further reduce the number of extra-parliamentary bodies, and will propose three amendments that I believe are consistent with the work you have done so far: two of them are aimed at removing articles relating to bodies under reform, and the last one is aimed at removing regulatory measures from the law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] This enhanced bill will serve as a new tool for democracy and dialogue between the Government and Parliament, while respecting the separation of powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u7	Mrs Isabelle Rauch, rapporteur for the information of the delegation on women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u8	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen, in 1879, feminist Maria Deraismes said: "The policy of universal suffrage is the cornerstone of any society concerned with progress. If she has not given all the results we hoped for, it is that universal suffrage, amputated by half, has so far worked only on one foot and by drinking, leaving a large part of her strength unemployed, having refused the woman as an auxiliary. » We can, fortunately, now welcome the fact that women have full political rights, but it seems to me that major progress still needs to be made in practice. The joint principle enshrined in the Constitution in 1999 takes time to translate into reality. Convinced of the need to move from principles to deeds, the President of the National Assembly and the presidents of four parliamentary groups wanted to modernize the arrangements for the appointment of parliamentarians to non-parliamentary bodies. I welcome Mr Waserman for the quality of the exchanges we had during the preparatory work and during the committee's consideration of this bill. This joint work has led to a legally sound text with a real commitment to change. The delegation for women's rights had made six recommendations on that text, and I am very pleased that the first of them was accepted in committee. An introductory article was added to this bill, which states that "The National Assembly and the Senate shall promote the equal sharing of political, professional and social responsibilities between women and men. The text adopted by the committee begins by recalling this commitment: it is a strong signal. By enshrining this principle, we show that we ourselves respect the rules that we intend to apply to society as a whole. It was this spirit that led to the implementation of this bill. I will not go back here to his overall economy, which the rapporteur has detailed; I will focus on Article 1e r, which organizes the joint arrangements for the appointment of Members and Senators to extra-parliamentary bodies. This article distinguishes three situations. First, when each assembly designates an even number of parliamentarians, it must appoint as many women as men. Secondly, when the National Assembly and the Senate are called upon to appoint a Member of Parliament and a Senator respectively, they alternately appoint a woman and a man, each in his own case. Thirdly, when each assembly designates an odd number of parliamentarians, it is up to it to alternately appoint a higher number of women or men. In the latter two cases, the proposal adopts a principle of alternation, either between the two chambers or over time. These mechanisms are relevant: they will ensure real parity in all agencies and positions. Indeed, we must guard against a comprehensive approach that could lead to women – but also men – being confined to certain positions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer necessary to see the appointment of a woman as president of a large institution or head of a board of directors as a step forward: this must become a daily reality. In its information report on this bill, the delegation for women's rights made six recommendations. The first, which I have already mentioned, was to explicitly mention the principle of real equality in an introductory article. The second recommendation is to extend the principle of joint appointment to all appointments under Parliament, particularly for qualified persons. The third is part of a more comprehensive approach to the principle of parity. Of course, it is necessary to look at the parity of the position in question, but also to take into account the environment in which this position is situated: for example, appointing a woman to a board of directors where only men sit may make her an alibi. We therefore propose that any appointment should be accompanied by the publication of data on the distribution between women and men in the body concerned. We will not be able to change all practices, but we will be informed and we will be able to ask the appointing authorities for an explanation of their choices. The fourth recommendation concerns the procedure for examining persons whom the President of the Republic intends to appoint under article 13 of the Constitution. It will be up to us to determine, during the constitutional review, whether the joint principle should apply to these appointments. We are already proposing that, at the hearing of each candidate, the identity of his predecessors be recalled, so that it is known how parity was applied to the position in question. In the same spirit, it seems to me essential to ask those who are required to exercise managerial responsibilities about how they intend to put in place the principle of parity in the structure for which they will be responsible – this is our fifth recommendation. Indeed, we must not only focus on leadership but also ensure that equality between women and men applies at all levels. Finally, in order to ensure the reality of the application of parity, our sixth and final recommendation is to create a Gender Observatory that would have an overall view of the situation in the political, professional and social fields. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that you share my conviction and my commitment to equality between women and men, and I hope that I can count on your support to defend the remaining five recommendations when considering future texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u10	In the general debate, Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering a bill which, rare enough to be pointed out, is presented by the President of the National Assembly and four group presidents. This text relates to the proper functioning and organization of bodies outside our assemblies. The extra-parliamentary bodies are necessary for the democratic life of our country, for the knowledge they bring, for the debates they raise, for the solutions they propose. The presence of parliamentarians in these bodies is necessary: it indirectly participates in the constitutional task of monitoring the action of the Government by the assemblies and in the proper drafting of the law. Today, there are nearly 200 extra-parliamentary bodies that differ considerably in their legal status, areas of activity, levels of activity and the manner in which their members are appointed. Adopted last September, the Organic Law for Confidence in Political Life amended article LO 145 of the Electoral Code to provide that "a Member may be appointed in that capacity in an external institution or body only by virtue of a legislative provision which determines the conditions for his or her appointment". This reform, which is now under discussion, has two objectives: on the one hand, to limit the proliferation of extra-parliamentary bodies, in particular in order to encourage the effective participation of parliamentarians in the work of Parliament; on the other hand, to enforce the separation of powers, which requires the presence of a parliamentarian in an extra-parliamentary body to be provided for by law and not by a decree. In recent decades, the number of extra-parliamentary bodies has increased considerably: since October 2014, 58 new bodies have been created. The presence of parliamentarians is now foreseen in 193 bodies, either by statute or by an act of a regulatory nature. This inflation of the number of extra-parliamentary bodies, combined with the absence of clear rules governing their existence, has caused some confusion. The purpose of this bill is therefore to clarify the rules governing the presence of parliamentarians in these bodies. This includes providing a legislative basis for a practice observed since 2005, namely that parliamentarians are appointed in bodies outside Parliament by the presidents of the respective assemblies. Beyond these clarification measures, this text contains provisions aimed at affirming equal access of women and men to responsibilities, which can only receive our approval. The report of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, which had taken up the text, revealed that of the 394 deputies appointed by the President of the National Assembly to extra-parliamentary bodies under the 14th legislature, 120 were women. Under the current legislature, as of May 16, 2018, of 370 MPs appointed to these bodies, 169 are women. We need to move from principled equality to real equality. According to the recommendations of the delegation to women's rights, the bill therefore explicitly mentions the objective of real division of positions and responsibilities between women and men. Jointity is thus enshrined in all procedures for the appointment and replacement of parliamentarians in bodies outside Parliament. This bill will therefore ensure real equality in all bodies and positions: we can only welcome it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the simplification of our legal order – by separating what is in the legislative field and what is in the regulatory field – and the precise manner in which parliamentarians are appointed, the whole issue in this text is to determine which bodies will be raised to the legislative level, which will not be legalised, and which will be abolished. In this regard, the debate in the committee focused on the desirability of explicitly targeting a particular body. For example, the Law Committee decided to ensure the continued presence of parliamentarians in six bodies, to exclude the legalization of two bodies, and to abolish six bodies with little or no activity. However, I have already had the opportunity to express my astonishment at the fact that the French initiative for coral reefs – IFRECOR – whose activity has always been important and whose purpose is to protect France's marine heritage, is not among the bodies elevated to legislative rank. For nearly 20 years, IFRECOR has played a key role in promoting an active policy for the conservation and management of ecosystems. It thus contributes to the protection of an exceptional marine heritage with tremendous potential, recognized by the entire international scientific community. Moreover, of the 50,000 square kilometres of coral reefs owned by France, 75 per cent are in New Caledonia, of which, I would remind you, lagoons are classified as UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The meeting of the 11th National Committee took place in New Caledonia last October. It therefore seems essential to me that this body be brought up at the legislative level, and that parliamentarians be able to sit on it. I will defend an amendment to that effect just now: I hope to be heard on this point. I recall that the National Assembly, under the patronage of its then President, hosted a symposium celebrating the fifteenth anniversary of IFRECOR. Ladies and gentlemen, subject to this reservation, the IDU, Action and Independent Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u12	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr Rapporteur, Mrs Rapporteur of the Delegation for Women's Rights, ladies and gentlemen, the Organic Law for Confidence in Political Life was a highlight of the beginning of this mandate. On this occasion, ambitious measures were adopted to modernise political practices, to put an end to acts that have become unbearable, thus meeting the new expectations and demands of our citizens. The bill we are considering draws the consequences of section 13 of this Act, which provides that, as of July 1, 2018, a member of Parliament may only be appointed in that capacity in an institution or other external body under a legislative provision, which must also define the conditions for designation. This bill meets this requirement by setting clear rules for the appointment of parliamentarians while rationalizing the very long list of non-parliamentary bodies – the latter in fact take a wide variety of forms. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, I would like to acknowledge the important work that was carried out jointly by the National Assembly and the Senate on this bill, tabled in identical terms in both assemblies on 30 March and co-signed by several political groups. I also welcome the work of the rapporteur, whose vigilance has enabled corrective measures to be taken to ensure consistency and accuracy throughout the text. The first objective of this bill is to lay down rules for the appointment of deputies and senators to non-parliamentary bodies. We are very pleased to see that a mechanism has been found to ensure parity. In addition, we will support the amendment drawn up jointly by the La France insoumée group and the rapporteur to ensure that political pluralism is taken into account in the National Assembly and the Senate. The bill is also carrying out an important simplification work, which we would like to highlight. The organic law for confidence in political life explicitly providing that the appointment of a parliamentarian to an extra-parliamentary body should be based exclusively on a provision of a legislative nature, it was necessary to harmonise the legal bases of bodies outside Parliament that we wished to maintain. For example, several bodies have been raised to the legislative level, such as the Observatory of Secularism, the National Digital Council or the Institute of Advanced National Defence Studies. The text also provided an opportunity to remove certain bodies with a legal basis but with a low level of activity that did not justify retention. As such, we agree with the rapporteur's choice to maintain the presence of parliamentarians in six agencies, contrary to the original text, given the issues they deal with. Finally, we share the choice not to create a new body outside Parliament and to refer to thematic texts. The Modem and related groups consider that this bill extends the positive effects of the organic law on confidence in political life. By laying down clear and precise rules for the appointment of parliamentarians to bodies outside Parliament, affirming the principles of parity and respect for plurality while ensuring their effectiveness, and carrying out an important task of simplification and harmonisation, this text improves the transparency of our institutions. We hope that the census of extra-parliamentary bodies that has been carried out to draft this bill will serve as a starting point for effective monitoring of the activities of these bodies in order to better inform the citizens, so that we can continue our efforts to restore confidence in political action. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREMet UDI-Agir groups]] For all these reasons, the Modem and related groups will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u14	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u15	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Law Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Article 13 of the Organic Law of 15 September 2017 on confidence in political life, inserted on the initiative of the Senate and then adopted by the National Assembly, provides that, as from 1 July 2018, a parliamentarian can no longer be appointed in that capacity in an external institution or body only under a legislative provision which determines the conditions for his appointment. The number of extra-parliamentary bodies has increased considerably in recent decades: since October 2014, 58 new bodies have been created, 29 of which have been created for the 2016-2017 parliamentary year alone. The presence of parliamentarians is now foreseen in 193 bodies, either by law – for 112 of them – or by an act of a regulatory nature – for the remaining 81. It is therefore more than 660 appointments that must be made each new legislature in the Senate and more than 700 in the National Assembly. In addition, the rules for appointments are disparate, with designation modalities such as the objectives of respect for parity and pluralism varying according to the organizations; It is therefore important to lay down them by law. This text brings us into line with Article 13 of the Organic Law for Confidence in Political Life, which is intended to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in non-parliamentary bodies when justified: it proposes to legalize 31 bodies based on regulations so far, and specifies the presence of parliamentarians for 33 bodies of legislative value. A total of 8 non-parliamentary bodies that no longer meet without providing a legislative basis for 15 organizations because of their low or non-existent level of activity, are proposed to be abolished by this bill, thereby ending the presence of Members of Parliament and senators in their ranks. Title I sets out the provisions relating to the appointment of deputies and senators to bodies outside Parliament. It aims to generalize the application of the principle of parity for such appointments and to establish the rule according to which their appointment is made, unless otherwise provided by law, by the presidents of their respective assemblies, and to define the arrangements for the replacement of a parliamentarian holding the presidency of one of these bodies. Title II aims to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in non-parliamentary bodies: Chapter I raises several bodies to the legislative level; Chapter II establishes in the law the principle of the presence of parliamentarians in certain extra-parliamentary bodies; Chapter III provides details on how parliamentarians should be appointed to extra-parliamentary bodies provided for by law. Title III abolishes several extra-parliamentary bodies from 1 July 2022. Title IV makes Article 1 on parity applicable from the next renewal of each assembly. In addition, various bodies are established: a National Traveller Advisory Commission, a Trade Consultation Commission, a National Council for Development and International Solidarity, a Higher Council for Civil Aviation, a National Housing Council, an Institute for Advanced National Defence Studies, a National Observatory for the Safety and Accessibility of Educational Institutions, a State Real Estate Council, a National Road Safety Council, a Higher Council for Agricultural Social Benefits, a National Council for Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome and Chronic Viral Hepatitis, a National Observatoire for Delinquency and Criminal Responses, a Scientific Council for Radicalization Processes, a High Council for Social Protection Financing, a National Council for Sport, a Quality of Service in Transport Authority, a Higher Council for Seafarers, a Committee for Users of the National Road Network, a Fund for the Development of Associative Life and an Advisory Committee for the Fund, a National Commission for Services, a Higher Commission for Codification, an Institute for Higher Studies in Science and Technology, a National Council for Industry, a National Council for the Development of Employment, a National Council for the Development of Employment and an Advisory Committee for the Environment. These organizations will include at least one Member and one Senator among their members. Their tasks, composition, organization and operation will be specified by decree. On the other hand, certain bodies are abolished: the Conseil national de l'aménagement et du développement du territoire, the Conférence de la ruralité, the monitoring committee for the implementation of the provisions relating to cinema and other animated art and image industries, the monitoring committee for the implementation of the law on the price of digital books, the Commission nationale de l'aménagement, de l'urbanisation et du territoire, the Haut Conseil des Musées de France and the Commission nationale de la videoprotection. As this text is co-signed by several group presidents, including Christian Jacob, president of the Republican Group, we will vote for it. However, some practices and shortcomings can be deplored. First of all, we regret that the absence of legibility on the nature of the extra-parliamentary bodies in which parliamentarians are required to sit persists. It is not always known what they serve and what decisions their members can take. It is therefore necessary to go further by creating a precise and detailed mapping of the tasks assigned to each of these bodies. I will go even further in my personal capacity by stressing that, if it really wanted to have ambition for modernising the functioning of our Parliament, such a text should go so far as to question the very merits of the existence of a number of the bodies maintained. In fact, for the most part, they duplicate with other organizations and do not actually add value to the management of the files they are responsible for. I may even argue that, sometimes, under particularly hospitable names, they have no prerogative, if not an abscontic advisory role, and are self-feeding.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u16	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u17	Thirdly, I would like to use this rostrum to highlight the quasi-systematic dysfunction, at least in our assembly – I will not allow myself to make the same remark about the Senate – with regard to the participation of some of its members in the extra-parliamentary bodies: they do not, for the most part – understand me – account for their activities in these bodies before the Assembly from which they came and which designates them. Of course, it is not a question of making the Members concerned themselves responsible for this situation: they are simply not given the opportunity to do so, since there is only one question of their appointment during each parliamentary term, that is, a few seconds at the beginning of the term when infinite lists of designations have been drawn up and we are led to vote on them. Finally, we must ensure that parliamentarians are present in the various structures in which they are supposed to sit, provided that the interests of these structures are proven. The latter is true at two levels: at the national level, national representation should be considered to have the right to be cited in a number of bodies which influence the manufacture of the law or monitor its implementation; At the local level, above all, several phenomena have added up in recent years, and even in recent months, which have had the effect of keeping parliamentarians away from issues of spatial planning...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u19	... of which they remain both major actors and full representatives – I am thinking first of the end of the cumulation of mandates that leads to the disappearance, body and property, I was going to say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u20	[[Smile]] Oh, no! Still not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u21	... parliamentarians of many representations, and the announced decrease in the number of parliamentarians which will make their fair representation in a number of bodies even more useful and necessary, as their territorial presence will be mechanically diminished by this new reform. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will conclude by stressing that the fabric of the law itself, if it is to adhere faithfully to the realities on the ground and to the expectations of our fellow citizens, must draw inspiration from the work of the bodies that take on the daily subjects and that, now more than ever, parliamentarians must sit on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u22	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u23	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering favours a consensual expression on the part of parliamentarians on an essentially technical problem which I agree with you, Mr rapporteur, has not been sufficiently dealt with in previous legislatures. Thus, it is on our initiative and in a sovereign manner that we plan to reconsider our presence as parliamentarians in the extra-parliamentary bodies – which are nearly 200. It is indeed necessary that we ask ourselves how we administer the country's files, and that we make a clear reflection on our role as parliamentarians. You mentioned principles, Mr Secretary of State, such as simplification, harmonisation, parity and pluralism. I shall now turn to this last point, because it is a matter of debate. You, Mr rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, have really sought consensus by incorporating a number of remarks that have been made by other groups, starting with the New Left Group, on the need to take into account the different sensitivities that exist in this National Assembly. We are pleased with this, and this will justify a positive vote by our group. However, this vote should encourage you to go even further on a number of points. In any event, we take note of your desire to ensure a truly pluralistic representation of Members in these bodies. We are also satisfied with the desire to include in the law the principle of parity which the Socialists have carried in this House on many occasions. The same principle will now govern the representation of MPs in non-parliamentary bodies, so it will standardize our designations. We have also taken note of the principle of free or non-remuneration, which must prevail in all the bodies concerned. You have, Mr Secretary of State, addressed the issue of increasing the presence of parliamentarians at the legislative level, which is the core of the bill. We are pleased that this text provides for such a stable and protective representation. It will protect the Members who will be sitting in these bodies, even if we would like to see the attention of the Ethics Officer drawn to this issue. There is indeed the question of the follow-up of this presence by the one who assists us in his duties as guarantor of ethics. All of this leads us to believe that the bill is in the right direction and will lead us to vote on it. However, I want to address other issues. We must ask ourselves the conditions for exercising these responsibilities. Looking through our Chamber, I realize that I am one of the oldest Members of Parliament, since I have been sitting there for almost 16 years. Secretary of State, we sat side by side for five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u25	At the time, you were sitting together!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u26	I was only reminding the Secretary of State of his journey, dear colleague. The conditions for the exercise of the parliamentary mandate in these various bodies are very heterogeneous. Some take note of the presence of Members, while others do not take this into account at all. On the questions of availability, training and respect for the votes cast by Members, it seems to me that it is necessary to organise things. The New Left Group, the rapporteur, would like to see further work – even if it is not in the field of law – as well as reflection undertaken with the executive, in particular. I know that this subject usually requires comments from our colleagues in the La République group, who sometimes forget that, beyond the peripheral, there is France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u27	Very nice thinking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u28	[[Smile]] We have one thing in common!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u29	The presence and place of deputies in their election departments are nevertheless of some importance. Mr President, I will not mention the role of Members in the so-called DETR committees – the provision of equipment for rural areas – which has both opposed us in my department. However, this is a question that deserves to be asked: the end of the cumulation of mandates leads us to question the way in which Members exercise their responsibilities locally, in their constituencies and in their departments. They are not only elected to vote the law and to evaluate public policies: these are reflections that are of the order of speech. In fact, they are also exercising departmental responsibilities: I personally hope that we can ask ourselves how they can conceive them. There are several committees at this departmental level – I mentioned the DETR, but there are others – in which the presence of Members should be clarified. In this sense, Mr rapporteur, our work begins and must continue on a number of subjects and areas. This one's one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u30	That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] That, Mr Secretary of State, is the reflections that the Socialist Group wanted to make. I will not go back to all the points that have been raised, having sufficiently, as Vice-President of the Assembly, gone against those of our colleagues who merely repeated what had been said by previous speakers. I also fully agree with what the previous speakers, in particular the rapporteur, have said. However, on these issues, we wanted to bring our unique touch, that of a group that has been in the majority and is now in opposition. You know, Mr rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, that the fate of each group and of each political force is, after having been a majority, to become a minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u32	It's almost a note of hope!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u33	Before giving the floor to Mrs Clémentine Autain, I would like to say to you, my colleague, that it was not a personal opposition that made me adopt a different position from yours with regard to the committees called DETR, but simply the application of proportional representation of the groups. As you have just referred to, I would like to react to your comments: it happens that the size of the groups changes according to the elections and that this has consequences for the composition of the bodies in which the representation of the groups is proportional to the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u34	Not quite!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u35	[[Smile]] That's because some people change groups along the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u36	As for the fact that all members of a department could sit on these same DETR commissions, this provision is not included in the bill we are considering this morning, such a development would require an amendment to the law. You know that, dear colleague, since this has been the subject of debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u37	And an amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u38	... during this Parliament, as well as during the previous Parliament. The successive governments opposed it and found a majority in the Assembly to support their view that not all members of the same department should sit on the same committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u39	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u40	You feel the need to justify yourself, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u41	It was better in the previous legislature: there were at least debates in the majority. Today's a little sad.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u42	I make this point notwithstanding my personal position. Mrs Autain, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u43	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the political devil is often hidden in technical details. In this case, the bill that was tabled jointly by the members of the majority and those of the Republican Group is intended to legislate on the presence of parliamentarians – MPs and Senators – in certain extra-parliamentary bodies. If the subject seems a little arid and technical, in reality it conceals real political issues on which I would like to speak today, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. This bill was made mandatory by Article 13 of the Organic Law of 15 September 2017 on confidence in political life, which provides that as from 1 July 2018 a parliamentarian may no longer be appointed in that capacity in an institution or in an organization only by virtue of a legislative provision. This is the one we're looking at this morning. The purpose of this bill is therefore to clarify the rules governing the presence of parliamentarians in these bodies, to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in these same bodies when justified and, finally, to simplify the scope of these organizations. We share the objective of clarification: there are 193 organizations today, including 58 new bodies that have been created since October 2014 – significant inflation! This represents 660 appointments to the Senate and 700 to the National Assembly. We believe that it would have been more appropriate to simplify the system of extra-parliamentary bodies, distinguishing them according to their characteristics between the bodies of expertise, those of law enforcement and those of control. Couldn't we merge several agencies? We all know that here, in this House, there are only 24 hours of the day. Moreover, the presence of MPs and senators in these same organizations is not always easy. If we are to be more effective, we must therefore ask ourselves the question of time, which should be on the agenda of our reflections on the discharge of our mandate. I believe that the President of the Republic's proposal, which aims to reduce the number of parliamentarians, will not facilitate the work of the elected representatives of the people. Indeed, we will soon be fewer, while the tasks – quite important – that we will have to carry out are multiplying. At a time when the role of Parliament and the position of the opposition are being undermined by the President of the Republic and by the majority, we believe that the place of parliamentarians in these bodies should be reaffirmed: it is indeed important and vital for democracy. For parliamentarians, this is an essential lever, enabling them to be involved in drawing up an assessment, evaluating, monitoring and monitoring the application of laws, as well as in a direct dialogue with actors on the ground, with certain bodies with specific competences and with associations. The presence of parliamentarians in certain bodies, such as the Agence française de développement, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations or the Commission nationale de l'informatique et des libertés, gives them access to a wealth of information necessary for the proper control of government action. But behind the display, and behind the objectives that we can share, this proposal does not provide the means to strengthen the oversight powers of parliamentarians. It does not in fact call into question the discretion of the Presidents of the Assembly and of the Senate with regard to appointment. Of course, some statements, such as that of the President of Rugy, want us to believe in more transparent appointments made in consultation with the group presidents and taking into account their wishes. In practice, we know, as we live in it, these appointments remain issues of power. Those in power tend to want to keep it and increase their influence. If the President of Rugy swears to make "as consensual proposals as possible," he remains the sole decision-maker in this matter, like his Senate counterpart for Senator appointments. These statements may be astonishing, ladies and gentlemen, when one remembers – I will only take one example, but it is of great importance – the consensus proposal to appoint at the head of LCP - National Assembly a certain Bertrand Delais, a wonderfully well-known...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u44	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u45	[[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR and NG]] ... especially for his hagiographic reports on the President of the Republic! It is therefore difficult to seriously believe that this farce will not happen again in the context of appointments that are less emblematic and less visible, but which, little by little, swarm throughout society. As such, this bill does not go far enough and does not strengthen the control powers of Parliament and the opposition. There is every reason to believe that the Republic on the move and the Republicans are actually proposing this law to control the appointment of parliamentarians to extra-parliamentary bodies, without taking into account either political pluralism or conflicts of interest. In our view, this bill reflects a fierce desire to erase – or in any case to marginalise – any opposition as well as any opposition within this House, while reserving – with the Republicans – the strategic positions within the most prestigious bodies. Of course, we are concerned that, in terms of the number of posts that will be offered to them, the other parliamentarians will be reduced to the congruent portion, in disregard of any democratic spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u46	Don't worry, they don't leave us much!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u47	Yet another path is possible. We have defended such a vision in the Committee on Laws, where our amendments have all been rejected: we find it difficult to get used to the difficulties experienced by the majority in opening up to proposals from the opposition. Indeed, it seems to us that this bill has several blind angles. It does not prevent conflicts of interest or the capture of appointments by the majority alone. Furthermore, it does not guarantee the transparency of the appointment procedure or its democratization. We therefore propose that the appointment of parliamentarians should not be the result of the sole decision of the President of the House concerned, but rather of a vote by public ballot or even of a drawing of lots among the volunteers. Appointments to extra-parliamentary bodies have far-reaching political consequences: the opposition cannot therefore be kept away from them any longer. It is necessary to ensure a pluralistic representation of the political forces present in Parliament, some of them being underrepresented in the light of political reality and the real relations of power in society. For obvious reasons of transparency and parity, a person cannot arrogate himself the monopoly of appointments – or even a majority, moreover: if the decision is sometimes taken by the president with the agreement of the bureau, the latter is composed in such a way that it is in reality the majority in place that decides. This is why potential conflicts of interest must be considered in the appointment process. Transparency of applications should be a priority; In particular, the statements could be made public and the ethics officer of each assembly could make a public opinion on the proposed appointments. This would avoid some regrettable cases. Can we imagine, for example, that the former general manager of a mutual society – let us quote at random the Mutuelles de Bretagne – could be appointed to the Conseil Supérieur de la Mutualité?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u48	[[Smile]] Oh, that couldn't be!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u49	We must establish strong safeguards to prevent such situations. One word, to conclude, on the issue of equality between men and women. Of course, we support the objective of a real division of functions between men and women. I admit, however, that I do not understand why the requirement of strict parity will only come into play from 2022. Above all, it must be convinced that, if this strict parity is a necessity, and that it is necessary to verify that appointments are made at 50/50, it is important, beyond the number, to take into account the quality of appointments, in examining which agencies are concerned. I would therefore like us to have specific expertise and to install safeguards, depending on the size of the organizations, to ensure that it is not just 50/50 on paper, but that the importance of the organizations is also taken into account. I'm not saying it's easy to do, but we need to think about it. Let us not forget that today we have a President of the Republic who is a man, a Prime Minister who is a man, a Speaker of the National Assembly who is a man and a Speaker of the Senate who is a man – I stop there. This shows that there is still a lot of work to be done before equality between men and women is a reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u50	Moreover, the president of the group La France insoumise is a man!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u51	I don't think it's better in your group, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u52	Perhaps, but we don't have the same speech: we are consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u53	Yet, it seems to me that you have heard about equality between men and women – you are in progress, I would like to note it, even if there is still a lot to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u54	[[Smile]] Thank you, Madam Teacher!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u55	In conclusion, this bill represents a decline in the rights of parliamentarians, particularly those of the opposition. Constitutional reform had to bring Parliament into the modern world, making it more effective and allowing parliamentarians to devote more time to law enforcement activities. We believe that, unsurprisingly, this text will have opposite effects. Access to information will be confiscated by the majority. Therefore, you are completing the transformation of this body into a servile Parliament, which is good to become a simple board of registration. We do not accept it, and that is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u56	Mrs Autain, I am not used to taking part in the debates, but I will not allow personal challenges to be made without responding. Perhaps you have been misinformed by your group president – I note that in your list of positions of responsibility, you have stopped at the group presidents, which is a shame,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u57	Yes, we noticed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u58	...because we could have also talked about the feminization of group presidencies, including yours –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u59	We did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u60	...but, with regard to appointments, since I was President of the National Assembly, I have transmitted to the group presidents all the appointments in the extra-parliamentary bodies that I had to make, with the proportional distribution by group. The groups were able to choose the organizations in which they preferred to be represented and it was they who gave me the names of the deputies, men and women, whom they wanted to see appointed. I've had to fight a lot so that there are as many women as there are men. Then I made the appointments. There is therefore nothing discretionary in this procedure. Perhaps in the past, some presidents of the National Assembly have approached deputies directly to propose that they be appointed here or there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u61	Who? Not Claude Bartolone, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u62	For my part, I did everything with the bands. There are traces of this written: paper and electronic mail; I will provide them to you if you wish. This will allow you to avoid saying false things. As for parity, since July 2017, appointments to non-parliamentary bodies have been more equal than our Assembly. It is a voluntarist effort that is being made; I do this personally, globally and by organization. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u63	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, the rapporteur of the delegation for women's rights, ladies and gentlemen, we will have the opportunity, when the debate on the reform of the institutions begins, to say all the evil that we feel about the conception of the power of the Government and the majority and their willingness to transform the Assembly into a think tank, to have disembodied Members who are no longer rooted in the territories, and ultimately to reserve power to a small number. I have the feeling that this is not what this is about in the bill we are considering this morning. I shall therefore confine myself to having a somewhat technical view of a subject which is very much so, even though this text may have political consequences. This bill, presented by the President of the National Assembly and the presidents of the groups The Republic on the Move, the Republicans, the Democratic and Related Movement and the IDU, is intended to clarify the rules governing the presence of parliamentarians in bodies outside the Parliament. As the explanatory memorandum points out, to date there have been no clear and uniform rules on the existence of these bodies and on the arrangements for appointing Members to them. The proposed law proposes, in a positive way, to harmonize practices and initiate some kind of legislative simplification. This follows from the Act of 15 September 2017 on confidence in political life, which states that a parliamentarian "can only be appointed in that capacity in an external institution or body by virtue of a legislative provision which determines the conditions for his appointment". There are now 193 extra-parliamentary bodies, some of which have been created by law and others by regulatory measures. As a result of the census work carried out by the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate, the bill provides for the legalization of some 30 bodies, the removal of some 20 of them from the legislative ranks and the abolition of some of them. Many of us stress this: the presence of parliamentarians in these external bodies can be important. It allows both assemblies to obtain essential information. They are privileged observation posts, which must enable parliamentarians – if they are given the means to do so, i.e. to take account of the parliamentary agenda and to have training and information available – to be aware of everything, or almost all. In addition, many of these bodies have consultative or decision-making powers with the Government, which, we believe, contributes to strengthening the role of parliamentarians. This is an unknown aspect of our work, which is the subject of little publicity, but which, at least we believe, contributes to the influence of Parliament, and thus to the power of parliamentarians. If we are not opposed, as a matter of principle, to the abolition of organizations that never meet, we do not have enough evidence to definitively challenge their raison d'être. For example, we are wondering about the need to remove organizations under such important themes as, for example, ruralism, which occupies many of our debates – having the chance to be a Member of Parliament for both an urban and a rural constituency, I can see how much the territories forgotten by the Republic need to know that we are concerned about their future. Similarly, the abolition of the National Council for Spatial Planning and Development seems to me to have to be called into question, given the "movement of the territory" carried out by your austerity policies. I share the view expressed by my colleague David Habib, from the New Left: it is necessary to extend the reflection on the presence of parliamentarians in committees directly connected to the life of our territories, such as the commissions for the allocation of equipment to rural territories or the fund to support local investment or the commissions involved in the preparation of State-region plan contracts. Everything that may strengthen the link of parliamentarians with the territory and legitimize their territorial anchor, with due respect for plurality, seems to me to have to be carefully examined. A precise assessment is therefore essential to ensure that the choices made by the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate in the census will not be detrimental to the policies concerned. Our concern is all the more legitimate given that the committee has returned, on the rapporteur's initiative, by way of an amendment on an initial proposed deletion – which we welcome. The National Commission for the Review of Compliance with Obligations to Make Social Housing was thus maintained. This commission had lost its strength and rarely met – once every three years – but the provisions included in the Equality and Citizenship Act strengthened its role. This justifies our desire to assess the homogeneity of housing policies and to monitor the proper application in the territories of the SRU law on urban solidarity and renewal. This is the demonstration that permanently deleting a commission can be detrimental. The observation made about this body could probably apply to others, concerning other themes; I am thinking in particular of the National Tourism Council or the National Council for Victim Assistance, which are working on issues that are at the heart of the concerns of our citizens. Beyond these reservations, which, depending on where one is located, may appear to be of major importance, we welcome the provisions of the text aimed at strengthening parity, in particular the inclusion in the law of the principle of joint designation in extra-parliamentary bodies. There was considerable progress to be made in this area. I agree with Clémentine Autain that it will be necessary to ensure that women are not referred to as second-tier or lower-interest organizations. However, this time the principle of joint designation is enshrined in the law. I would also like to welcome – this is a concern that could have blocked us in the vote on the text – the willingness to take political pluralism into account in the method of designation. We will also ensure that the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate do not reserve marginal, secondary or lesser-interest positions for opposition. With regard to the political balance and respect by the "new world" for political pluralism, we will be very vigilant. Finally, on the eve of the beginning of the consideration of the constitutional bill, which will, for the time being, provoke our full opposition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have adopted, on the initiative of the rapporteur, an amendment which has become Rule 77 bis of the bill. However, this article is not directly related to the text and its objectives. Yet it is useful. Tomorrow, if the proposed reform is adopted, such amendments can no longer be adopted, since the tabling of amendments unrelated to the text will be prohibited. You have indeed decided to deprive Parliament of its irrefragable capacity to amend a text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u64	They can't do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u65	I just want to make you notice, with a smile, this contradiction. You've been caught in fact! [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] These are some of the comments I wanted to make. The progress made in this technical text will lead the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to give its approval in principle, while remaining vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u66	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u67	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr Rapporteur, Mrs Rapporteur of the Delegation for Women's Rights, ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said about this bill, which is the subject of a broad consensus, although, as we have seen, differences of opinion can be expressed as to the democratic system as a whole. For the La République en marche group, the text has many virtues: a source of simplification, it is also a source of coherence as it is in addition to the one, voted in 2017, on the inclusion in the law of the conditions for the representation of parliamentarians in external bodies. It is based on three elements of coherence. First of all, it gives a uniform normative framework to the bodies in which we are led to sit, raising them to the legislative level while, for some of them, they fall under the Order-in-Council. This has the effect of strengthening our control position, which we believe is very positive. It also seeks to legalise the presence of parliamentarians when this was not foreseen, so that they are in some way self-reliant, and to specify the modalities for their designation where doubts remain. The second focuses on the coherence of organizational principles. The aim is to generalize the principle of parity; to confer on the President of the National Assembly competence to appoint under the conditions previously recalled and in the most equitable manner; to ensure, finally, the renewal of the functions of President of an organization where this is not intended. The third element of coherence is the removal of a number of legislative bodies that had virtually ceased to exist. Our group obviously supports this text, which I said is necessary, coherent and simplifying. So he's going in the right direction. It has also improved in committee, thanks in particular to the proposal by the rapporteur of the delegation for women's rights, which we supported, to legalize parity in a number of political, professional and social responsibilities. We hope that further improvements will be adopted in a few moments: I am thinking in particular of one of our amendments, which is also the source of a broad consensus, aimed at bringing pluralism, already enshrined in the Rules of Procedure of this House, to the level of legislation. Finally, we will follow the proposals of the Government and the rapporteur regarding the status of several bodies whose fate is linked to ongoing legislative procedures. Given these observations, we will ensure that the consistency and simplicity of the proposed legislation is maintained. We shall therefore oppose amendments to the position, which have no other purpose but to go back to the planned deletion in order to lead to the discussion of topics which have already been said to be the subject of subsequent legislative processes, especially since the creation of bodies for the benefit of thematic provisions can be envisaged. We will also oppose amendments that fall outside the scope of the proposed legislation, the aim being to legislate on an ongoing basis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For the rest, of course, it is with enthusiasm that we will support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u69	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u70	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr Rapporteur, Mrs Rapporteur of the Delegation for Women's Rights, ladies and gentlemen, this is a proposal for a law which, at first sight, can only be approved, as it seems marked by common sense. How can you avoid opining the leader when you are told that the 700 or so MPs' appointments in the various bodies in which they sit must be decided in full clarity? How can we not agree when we are proposed to abolish eight extra-parliamentary bodies that no longer meet, or when we are suggested to put an end to the presence of parliamentarians in some 20 organizations whose, I quote, "level of activity is low or non-existent"? All this goes without saying. One would, however, be tempted to ask only one question: why, therefore, did we not close earlier these diverse and varied bodies which, obviously, do not serve much or nothing? While the study of the 193 agencies in which parliamentarians are called upon to sit reveals that a few dozen of them are simply ghosts, there is a right to question the total number of equally ghostly "Theodule" committees that have not been investigated. So let's go back to our bill. I will not dwell on the need for some bodies previously governed by regulations to be "brought up to the legislative level", as the text suggests. Everything that contributes to greater clarity and the establishment of the same rules for the different bodies is in the right direction. The same applies to bodies where no parliamentarian is currently sitting, even though they are of real use. Ending the current confusion, establishing clear rules, cleaning up and giving the necessary sweeps: this is what this bill is about, and I very much welcome the census and the important simplification work carried out by the Speaker of our House and the Speaker of the Senate. But let me now make less consensual remarks. If the respect for parity in appointments seems a good thing to me – I am not convinced that the interests of the French people will be better taken into account, but let us move on – it is different from the respect for pluralism that we are told in the explanatory memorandum. These appointments, with a few exceptions, are made by the Speaker of our House and the Speaker of the Senate. A few others depend on our standing committees or the Parliamentary Office for Scientific and Technological Choices, the text says. Is there anything to guarantee "respect for pluralism"? No offense, let me doubt it. I must not be the only one in this House to see that, at the top of the state as well as in the ranks of the majority party – but also in some other parties – there is a very narrow conception of pluralism. In the same way that many here have a taste for freedom of expression only if they reserve it to the opinions that suit them, they love pluralism only if they are the first – and sometimes the only – beneficiaries. It seems to me that I have read carefully the 78 sections of this bill without ever finding a word that would explain to me how this famous "respect for pluralism" would be ensured. Because it goes without saying, they'll answer me. But the problem is that, in our good country, it never goes without saying. One prefers the one-to-one; We are offended by possible blows of canife in pluralism, but only if they damage our own interests, our own political family. In short, it is an unfortunate attempt to exclude those whose opinions are contrary to their own from pluralism. This bill could have provided an opportunity for reflection and, I dare not dream, for the concrete implementation of this "respect for pluralism", which many claim, but which very few practice. That's not the case. Am I surprised? Not really. The mayor of Béziers was violently assaulted on 5 May as he was taking part, near Bordeaux, in a political meeting on the union of the right. How many members of this august assembly have moved publicly in the name of "respect for pluralism"? I'm afraid I can count them on the fingers of one hand! As for the Government, let's not even talk about it... So "respect for pluralism" in appointments, let me smile. But yellow smile, I confess to you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u71	Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u72	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr Rapporteur, Mrs Rapporteur of the Delegation for Women's Rights, ladies and gentlemen, we are today considering a proposal for a law which aims to establish in full transparency one of the major prerogatives of the legislator: the presence of parliamentarians in certain external bodies. The representation of Parliament in non-parliamentary bodies is little known to the general public. However, this very useful presence allows Members and Senators to learn and specialize in matters of their choice in terms of their skills, skills and national or local issues. These bodies provide a rich source of information for public decision-makers. They contribute greatly to the reflection and work of the legislator. Members' participation in Parliament gives them a political and democratic dimension; It makes it possible both to make the voice of citizens heard through elected representatives and to bring administrations closer to the public. This joint work therefore represents a real chance for our democracy. The representation of parliamentarians in these organizations dates from the early 19th century. The number of bodies has increased steadily since the beginning of the Fifth Republic, and even more so in recent years, with 58 new bodies having been created since 2014. They were originally primarily advisory, but their ability to influence and propose has increased over time, with the result that some now have significant control, oversight or management powers. To date, there are 193 entities that require 700 MPs and 660 senators in each legislature. It is therefore necessary to aim for greater efficiency by rationalizing the organization of these bodies. We are considering the abolition of some of them because of their low level of activity or because their very specific missions are no longer required or are carried out by other bodies. The opportunity of this bill is offered to us by the necessary alignment of our law with article 13 of the Organic Law for Trust in Political Life of 15 September 2017. Effective July 1, 2018, a Member of Parliament can no longer be "appointed in that capacity in an institution or in an outside body only under a legislative provision that determines the conditions for his appointment". We have the opportunity here to respond to several demands expressed by Parliament through measures to simplify, modernise and harmonise the arrangements for appointing members of non-parliamentary bodies. By voting on this bill, we will revise the list of such bodies in order to ensure its legitimacy and effectiveness; we will sanctify the appointment of parliamentarians by the legislature; We will introduce an irremovable principle of parity in appointments, which, for the parliamentarian I am, represents progress. I feel particularly concerned about this bill, as it is part of the ongoing reflection within the National Council for Ecological Transition – CNTE – of which I am a member. During our discussions on the prospects of this entity, with a view to strengthening its position, the question of its composition was raised. While the place and role of parliamentarians could be debated, article 51 of this text responds to these questions by including in the law the presence of three deputies and three senators, thus strengthening the necessary interface between civil society, local and regional authorities, trade unions, associations, elected representatives and other non-governmental organisations – NGOs. CNTE is consulted upstream on draft legislation on the environment, energy, national sustainable development strategies, biodiversity or the low carbon strategy. It may also be self-sufficient in any matter of national interest relating to ecological transition and sustainable development. As a member of our Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, and invested in all the subjects within its competence, I can testify to the interest and usefulness of the reflections carried out within the CNTE, which inform my legislative work. I speak not only of the opinions that he gives, but also of all the points of view expressed in it, and which feed my reflections. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to acknowledge the action of the Speaker of our Assembly, François de Rugy, the Speaker of the Senate, Gérard Larcher, and the co-signatorial group chairmen, who have been able to share this common desire to work together so that Members of Parliament can still and always work closer to the general interest and the common good.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u74	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u75	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, our President, François de Rugy, has embarked on the transformation of the National Assembly, emphasizing the development of participatory democracy and the need for greater transparency and exemplaryness. It is in this spirit that he proposes today to clarify the procedures for the appointment of members and senators to extra-parliamentary bodies, which are currently complex and opaque. From now on, all these appointments will be regulated by law and it will specify how parliamentarians are to be appointed. This is very important, because it is a matter of serving in external bodies that have an important role in the life of our country. The places in these bodies offer the two legislative chambers useful sources of information and privileged observation posts, which allow not only to develop expertise, by participating in the right meetings at the right time with the right people, but also to establish specialist skills on many topics or to share that knowledge in order to enrich the debates in the assemblies and the legislative work. The text we are looking at today brings important improvements. First, it enshrines parity within the extra-parliamentary bodies, starting with the next renewal of each House of Parliament. This is another step forward in the fight for equality between women and men in politics, which was welcomed by the rapporteur for the information of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women. For the first time in its history, and thanks to the determination of the President of the Republic, our assembly has 40 per cent women, compared to 10 per cent in 2002. However, it was important to continue those efforts for parity, particularly in elected bodies where real inequalities remained. It is up to the law to come and correct them, as it is proposed to do today in the extra-parliamentary bodies. I know that, in this House, parity is not only seen as a legal constraint, which would lead to women being offered smaller positions. On the contrary, in this area, we can trust our President, while equality between women and men has been established as a major national cause of the quinquennium. The second major step in the text is the streamlining of appointment procedures within the organizations. This effort proved to be very necessary in view of the inflation of the number of these bodies – almost 700 today – that functioned according to very disparate rules and methods of designation. The text will also make it possible to better respect the principle of the separation of powers, since Parliament is taking over. Clarification is evident with the rise to the legislative level of the most important bodies, while the presence of parliamentarians in those who have a weak activity or who no longer meet. This law will also guarantee better monitoring by our fellow citizens of the activities of the National Assembly outside the walls, an important and yet unknown activity, as well as a better knowledge of the external bodies and the list of parliamentarians who sit there. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is an unprecedented effort of transparency, which should be welcomed. It is no coincidence that this bill that I am inviting you to vote on is marked by a broad consensus. It benefits from the co-signatory of the president of the La République group on the move, Richard Ferrand, as well as from the presidents of three other groups – the Democratic and Related Movement, IDU, Agir et indépendants, and Les Républicaines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u76	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u77	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote on this text, and I welcome the good work that has been done, in particular by President Waserman. I believe that we are progressing, modestly, certainly, but really. It seems essential to me that parliamentarians should be able to belong to such committees and bodies, information and breathing. A parliamentarian must not legislate in the abstract, but must have information, knowledge and have in mind certain individual situations. The constituencies allowed this, but I fear that they will take on such dimensions now that this exchange with the people is complicated. In any case, we need to participate in such committees and bodies, both at national and local level – perhaps even more so at this level. I will not sue the President for any intention to make appointments. So far, there are no difficulties in this area, and I hope there will be none. If participation in these forums is very positive, we still need to play a role, and I would like to stress this point. As parliamentarians, we are not meant to be, as in the theatre, porters of hallebarde, second zone extras,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u78	That's what we'd like them to be!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u79	... who have nothing to say and are simply present as spectators, to give a certain chandelier to instances. We must participate in practice, and I fear that this is not always the case. Let us take the example of the Committee on the Supply of Equipment for Rural Territories. I recall that when the parliamentary reserve was removed, it was decided in compensation to introduce parliamentarians into the bodies that manage grants to communities, in particular the DETR. Parliamentarians – at least some of them – have been involved, but my group would have liked all parliamentarians to be involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u80	Yes, because it concerns all the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u81	Personally, with my colleague Yannick Kerlobot, I am a member of this chamber, which also has two senators. We participated in this commission, but our absence would not have changed anything, since we simply received the list of communities receiving the DETR, without knowing which communities were refused, whose application was not reviewed by the Commission. In addition, the Commission did not change the list of communities benefiting from the DETR. A committee that does not make any changes, no amendment is a puppet committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u82	We got a rattle!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u83	If, at least, the parliamentary reserve had disappeared, the DETR would have increased from year to year, the commission could have been useful. But this is not even the case: in the Côtes-d'Armor department, of which I am the elected one, the DETR has decreased by 7%. I therefore believe that we need to review this: to be present on committees, it means that the administrations that provide the secretariat respect us. I would also like to stress the deteriorating relationship between parliamentarians and administrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u84	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u85	I would appreciate it, Mr. Secretary of State, if you would speak to your colleagues. Having some seniority in this house, I had a time when the administrations showed a minimum of respect for parliamentarians. It was customary for every public servant who came to the office to come and greet the elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u86	It was the old world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u87	It was obviously the old world! That's not the case anymore. It is we who must ask for the exchange with the administration, and we must travel for the appointments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u88	We're at the command of the officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u89	As everyone knows, the elements of protocol and politeness reflect the elements of power. Today, however, Parliament has been degraded, a degradation that is continuing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u90	It is the chief of staff who decide in place of the ministers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u91	Let us take a very concrete example. I am unable to have any relationship with the Rector of the Rennes Academy, who does not associate me in any way with exchanges and reflections on regional languages, although I have been invested in these issues for a long time. It's amazing, but it is. It means a lot: it is first of all a sign of contempt, but also of ignorance. That means we don't count. It is true that we count less. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the first decision we took in this mandate was to degrade our situation. Of course, the administrative interlocutors have. We shall therefore vote for the text, which is of good quality, but, Mr Secretary of State, make sure that the administrations, even if they can only hear us with one ear, can at least pretend to listen to parliamentarians and that they have, at least in appearance, a minimum of respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u92	It's the theory of appearances!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We are not individual people, but elected people. In this regard, our duty is to speak, and to speak loudly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u94	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u95	In response to this general discussion, I want to go back to three essential points. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, this text is a starting point, which many of you have stressed. Putting the legislative foundations of our representations squared is a first step. I know the President of the National Assembly's commitment to working on transparency. Today, we have just managed, working hard, for years, to find out where our Members are. But no one is able to say exactly what they do, how many meetings they attend, or what decisions come from different agencies. At a time when information technology can help us, we have some progress to make in this area. To be more transparent, to account and to put in place a kind of reporting of our activities are clearly the intentions of the President of the National Assembly. We could also ask ourselves about the rights and duties of these bodies, a subject that I have discussed with the Secretary-General of the Government. Welcoming parliamentarians into an organization can also create duties, particularly with respect to reporting. This is probably a second thought that we will have to take the initiative. Secondly, with regard to pluralism, even in the absence of David Habib, I would like to stress the symbolic importance of the fact that two opposition groups have proposed to include this concept in the text. After very positive discussions with the majority group, I am pleased that we were able, on a consensual basis, to define a position on these elements. Having several co-signatories is a strong symbol for this bill. The same applies to the fact that non-signatories have proposed to include pluralism in the text and that this has been accepted. This will enable us to vote on one of the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which is in line with this consensus. However, I would like to go back to what seems to be an error in analysis. Ms. Autain was concerned that parity was generally respected, but not for priority agencies. I would like to recall that the purpose of the mechanism is to alternate between women and men in each of the organizations. There will therefore be no organization reserved for men or women, but a real alternation from one mandate to the next, and therefore a guarantee not to fall into the pitfall that Ms. Autain was worried about. Finally, in addition to all the other matters on which I will not come back, because they are not directly related to the purpose of this bill, I stress the affirmation of the role of Parliament, which President Le Fur referred to. This begins with a rationalisation of our presence and the affirmation that we, and only we, decide on this representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u96	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u97	The first speaker on Rule 1 is Mr Laurent Furst.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u98	The text deals with the presence of parliamentarians in external bodies. The Fifth Republic gives a very small place to Parliament, which seems to me to melt faster than the glaciers of the Alps. This morning, for once we talk about the place of parliamentarians, there is a shared sense of happiness and well-being. Rather, 193 organizations are absolutely considerable, especially since, even if some of them are removed, others are strengthened. It is the sign of a French disease, "theodulism". After speaking of this French evil, I would like to pay tribute to the English government and Parliament, which have worked on this issue and have greatly changed the number of organizations. Let us remember that, for each organization, there are executives, secretariats, travel expenses, allowances, considerable costs, which we do not look at. If our work made sense, we would study the actions, the results, the cost, the opportunity of these organizations. Unfortunately, we do not. Let us say a word about the non-compensation of parliamentary work, which I am in favour of. But the question of all the other appointments arises: in these organizations, we check and recuse buddies, we compensate, including civil servants. We're not looking at this subject. And what is the usefulness of all this for the French? [[Smile]] So this text is certainly useful, but it looks at such a modest aspect of the issue that we can only regret it. To conclude with humour, if we create a Conseil national du théodulisme français, I will apply to sit on it, because it is truly an endless subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u99	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u100	My intention is not to systematically denounce theodulism, even if the question may arise: here and there, projects could be put forward by beautiful committees that were later forgotten. But that's not the point. Some 200 parliamentary or extra-parliamentary bodies, almost 700 appointments in one legislature, is not nothing. Sometimes we find it difficult to appoint some colleagues to represent the National Assembly in these bodies: what will happen when we are only 404? It will then be necessary to fill the same posts, which will ask even more than today the question of the presence of parliamentarians in the bodies in question. For the whole thing is not to be appointed: it is still necessary to sit effectively, which does not always happen, far from it. In some organizations, the exercise of our functions requires a great deal of personal involvement. I am a member of the CNIL; I spend hours and hours a week there without the slightest recognition of my colleagues or, more importantly, of public opinion, which does not identify such a work as a parliamentarian while we sit in these bodies in good standing. It's a real problem. I also want to put the question of compensation for the time we spend there very clearly. I know that there was a debate on the subject last year. The committee chairmen, who are subject to particular constraints in the House – I readily admit – which involve additional work, also benefit from a form of recognition that we do not have. Today, this lack of recognition discourages some colleagues from sitting in the bodies where they have been appointed. Their time is not extensible, and they are entirely volunteer. The question not only of our presence in the organizations and the reporting to which it is subject, but also of the valuing of this work, is real and must be put on the table. This was not the subject of the text we are considering, since we must go through an organic law. But since some reflections will take place over the coming months and weeks, I would like the debate to be largely open, and I would like to take this opportunity to say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u101	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u102	Having listened carefully to the general discussion, I would like to react to the ode to the separation of powers that we have heard from several speakers, including the majority. I am pleased that the separation of powers is becoming something important for the majority. However, I would like to make a slight difference to the scope of this text: if it legalizes several extra-parliamentary bodies, it is not it that sanctifies the separation of powers with regard to the appointment of parliamentarians, but an amendment of the Senate to the organic bill for confidence in political life. This text should therefore also be an opportunity to highlight the opportunity represented by bicameralism, the need to respect sometimes a little more the parliamentary debate and its contribution to the construction of the law. Perhaps this will prompt us to reflect when we discuss, in the coming weeks, texts aimed at systematically reducing the powers of the Parliament in general and of the National Assembly in particular. Secondly, the text proposes to abolish several extra-parliamentary bodies on the grounds that they no longer live, no longer have an agenda, no longer meet. This logic is not the right one. The question is not whether, in the event that extra-parliamentary bodies are created, they meet or not: if they are created, they must meet. But if we create them, it is because they have a meaning, an objective, that they emphasize a political priority. I find it a pity that all or almost all of the extra-parliamentary bodies that are going to be abolished are those that reflect concerns related to spatial planning, ruralness, equity in the development of our territory, and I will defend amendments to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u103	Thank you, Congressman. I see that there is going to be discussions in your group: one of its speakers has proposed to delete more of these bodies, the other to maintain more of them...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u104	We have the freedom to speak and vote at The Republicans, which is not the case everywhere else!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u105	We come to the amendments to Article 1. I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u106	First of all, I welcome the progress announced by the rapporteur: we will be able to work together on an amendment. That's very good news. Amendment No 24, which I mentioned in my speech in the general discussion, tends to avoid that, in the case of appointments which are particularly sensitive to the good conduct of the State and which are subject to controversy – the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the Agence française de développement, the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons – the decision of a single person, in this case the President of the National Assembly, and between himself and herself prevail over the general interest. To this end, we propose a minimum safeguard: the obligation to go through a procedure of drawing lots, rather than discretionary designation. This safeguard would be used sparingly and justified, since it would be limited to five occurrences per political group, i.e., in the extreme case, a maximum of forty drawing procedures, since there are eight political groups in each assembly. There have been more than 700 appointments by the National Assembly in each legislature; the drawing of lots would therefore concern only about 6 % of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u107	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u108	Unfavorable. As drafted, the amendment does not guarantee plurality or pluralism. How would one choose those appointments that fall within the scope of the drawing of lots? This is not in line with the approach of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u110	Same opinion. Pluralism is of course an essential question, but the drawing of lots does not give an adequate answer to it, unlike, I believe, the identical amendments No 1 by the rapporteur, No 31 by Mr Ferrand and No 32 by Mrs Obono, which will then be examined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u111	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u112	There is a total contradiction between wanting to resort to the drawing of lots, that is to say to the hazard, and the desire for fairness, parity and pluralism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u113	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u114	Of course, we will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u115	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u116	I hear the argument that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u117	He's serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u118	In response, it seems to me that we should move a little further on the reflection on the drawing of lots. It is not a question of resorting to randomity, particularly with regard to the requirement of parity, since the drawing of lots could on the one hand relate to women's names and on the other to men's names. On the contrary, it is a matter of avoiding that the decision depends on a single man each time. The drawing of lots may, in certain cases and provided that its use is limited, be more democratic than that designation by one. I therefore see no contradiction with what we are defending, but, on the contrary, logic and continuity. It is a question of further promoting new forms of designation in democratic spaces that could enter our republican hemicycles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u119	I shall put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u120	Mr President, I have been asking for the floor for several minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u121	I have before me five amendments, Nos 27, 1, 31, 32 and 21, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1, 31 and 32 are identical. I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u122	[[Murmures]] [[Smile]] Vice-President Waserman's Amendment No 1 should provide an answer to the question raised by our amendment. However, I would like to take advantage of my speaking time to recall the absolute need to guarantee the representation of the plurality of the sensitivities of the Assembly, especially since there are now eight groups there – this is a new element to be taken into account. I'm sorry, seven – I'm from the South, Mr. President! I would also like to take this opportunity to tell you, Mr President, that, with regard to the provision of equipment in rural areas, the problem that has arisen between us did not concern representation, but the choice of departments. Mrs Autain recalled earlier: it is sometimes desirable that the work of the President of the Assembly should be framed by texts. That's what I was alluding to. We will withdraw our amendment once the rapporteur has presented his own, and that is what will justify our vote in favour of the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u123	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Thank you, Congressman. I have allowed myself to correct this: there are not eight parliamentary groups in the House, but seven.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u124	For now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u125	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u126	These were two amendments from the New Left and France groups which, in committee, enabled dialogue to take place. Our Amendment No 1 seems to us to be quite consensual and, moreover, consistent with the requirements of our regulation, so that it does not pose a legal problem. We therefore hope to obtain a broad consensus on this amendment, in the form in which we propose to include in the text the requirement of pluralism – this is a strong message.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u127	I call Mr Euzet to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u128	We would be happy to have a consensus on this amendment, which aims to raise the principle of pluralism to the legislative level, after the principle of parity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u129	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 32. You also have an amendment No 21 in the joint debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u130	As I said, I am pleased that we have been heard on Amendment No 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u131	The committee's opinion is naturally in favour of Amendment No 1 and identical, which implies a request to withdraw the other amendments. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u132	Opinion in favour of Amendment No 1 and identical, because they guarantee pluralism in accordance with your House's Rules of Procedure, which they even improve a little. I call for the other amendments to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u133	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u134	I am not sure that it is relevant for the Government to issue an opinion on the amendment of the Assembly's Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u135	We are not talking about the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but about the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u136	...it seems to me that it does not conform to the irrefragable principle of separation of powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u137	It's about the law, not the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u138	I'd like to go on. What you say has not escaped me, but the Assembly's Rules of Procedure have been mentioned; It is not for the Government to make a judgment on these regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u139	But on the bill, yes! To do this, you still need the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u140	The consensus on pluralism as defined in the rapporteur's amendment is a good thing, and this will lead us, as I said, to reconsider our reservations on the text. But it must not make us forget that, as part of the institutional reform, you are planning to take over all the powers, to transform the constituencies into "districts XXL", to mastodones disconnected from the territories, and, at the end of the day, to crush not only the political pluralism, but also the pluralism that makes France's very identity: the diversity of its territories, the presence of the rural world, the possibility of incarnating here the strength of the medium-sized cities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u141	It's the complex thought!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u142	We should not forget your visions from the old world, the revival of the old strings of those who cut the electoral cards in order to take over all the powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u143	I personally welcome the adoption of these amendments, which incorporate into the law what I have been doing for a year. I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u144	Mr President, you have had identical amendments withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u145	Indeed, some of them were identical, but not all of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u146	This amendment is intended to prevent any conflicts of interest with the private sector that may arise as a result of parliamentary appointments to non-parliamentary bodies. To this end, and in line with our previous amendments, we propose establishing a minimum period of five years between taking up office in an extra-parliamentary body and carrying out activities directly or indirectly related to the sectors of activity in which the parliamentarian has intervened. Indeed, the current state of the law and the provisions of this text may create ubiquitous situations. Can we imagine that a former general manager of a mutual society, for example the Mutuelles de Bretagne, could be appointed to the Conseil Supérieur de la Mutualité? Or that a former chairman of the supervisory board of an armament group – the Dassault group, for example – be appointed to the board of directors of the Institut des hautes études de défense nationale? It is necessary to ensure that such situations can no longer be repeated, especially since certain appointments may already raise questions. For example, on the board of directors of the public agency Business France, theoretically guaranteeing a neutral public interest, responsible for aiding investment in France and supporting the export of French companies, was appointed, under this legislature, for the assembly, an entrepreneur still holding shares in companies positioned internationally, particularly in a robotics company. Our amendment prevents this type of drift.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u148	Unfavorable opinion. We are all concerned, of course, with avoiding conflicts of interest. An organic law defines this framework. Moreover, democratic control is exercised through the need for transparency. There is therefore no need to add specific clauses on conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u149	Mr Laurent Furst, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u150	I would like to make a very small comment, Mr President, following your sarcasm on the Republican Group. You have prevented me from replying to this, by not giving the floor to our group on the amendment when I asked for it. I would like to remind all of our colleagues that the Republican Group respects the freedom of speech, the freedom of commitment and the freedom to vote of each of its members. At home, the word "freedom" has meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u151	Freedom, honey!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u152	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We sometimes abuse it, and often use it. In any event, I am very proud to be a member of this group that respects each of its members, which may not be the case for all groups, including, Mr. Chairman, the group to which you belong.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u153	Definitely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u154	I call Mr Sylvain Waserman to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u155	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u156	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u157	In the Spirit of Laws, Montesquieu recalls that despotism is the decision of one who "leads everything by his will and by his whims". With this amendment, we would like to propose that the collective wisdom of the assemblies should be privileged at the will of one person. We believe that the appointment of parliamentarians in these extra-parliamentary bodies should not be subject to the decision of a single, but rather to collective deliberation and choice, made, except in derogation, by the assemblies in plenary session, in accordance with the procedures laid down in Rules 50 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Rules 32 et seq. of the Rules of the Senate. Indeed, these appointments have concrete implications and can have far-reaching political consequences, if they are not relevant. Currently, these 193 extra-parliamentary bodies have an important place and role in the conduct of public policies. In fact, these bodies, which may be of expertise, law enforcement or control, directly concern issues of sovereignty – such as the French Southern and Antarctic Land Advisory Council and the island of Clipperton or the supervisory board of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations – external relations – such as the board of directors of the Agence française de développement – ecological planning – such as the Conseil supérieur de l'énergie – strategy and geoéconomie – such as the Conseil national de l'industrie or the Conseil national du numérique – access to the essential public services necessary for the well-being of the people – such as the council of the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy. In view of their importance in the proper functioning of the institutions, the power of appointment in these bodies must lie with the assemblies concerned in plenary session, not with the inherent hazards of choosing a single one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u158	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u159	Unfavorable opinion, for technical reasons – there are 700 appointments and, unless we do so formally, we would not have time to debate each of these appointments – but above all because the President of the National Assembly is a guarantor of pluralism, when the majority fact could very well make that the majority decides, for example, that the appointments come from its own ranks. To entrust the nominations to the President of the National Assembly is an additional guarantee that would not have to rely on the majority fact for each appointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u160	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u161	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u162	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u163	We are obviously against this amendment. But I want to go back to Mr. Furst's remark. Since this morning, we have been receiving reminders of the demands of democracy. In order to spend hours listening to you speaking in the Chamber for several months, we do not have the impression that the opposition has been braided in its ability to express itself. You, who give lessons in some respects, know that introducing a proportional dose into the constitutional review will have the effect of bringing into the Chamber the political forces that you have endeavoured to keep outside for decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u164	That's not true! It's disinformation! Fake news! Until then, we will have voted on a text that will prevent you from making that kind of statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u165	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u166	I do not know whether the application of this law will change the rules regarding, for example, representatives of the National Assembly in the Council of Europe. Basically, it's also a state of mind. To date, there are thirty members: eighteen members and twelve alternates. The ideal of the Council of Europe is that all oppositions should be represented to talk about human rights. However, France acts as a bad pupil, because two of its groups are not represented in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. With regard to issues as important as those of human rights in our countries, perhaps the majority fact could revisit its copy, and the President of the Assembly will accompany it, so that, very quickly, the group La France insoumise and that of the Democratic and Republican Left join, even for an alternate position, the benches of the Council of Europe...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u168	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u169	The question of Jean-Paul Lecoq leaves you speechless, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u170	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u172	Unfavorable opinion. With 700 applications, requesting 700 letters of motivation and as many interviews would be too cumbersome a procedure that seems to us to be inoperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u173	I call Mr Sylvain Waserman to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u174	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u175	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u176	With this amendment, we propose that the more than 193 extra-parliamentary bodies and the various tasks they carry out can be made more easily accessible and intelligible to citizens. To this end, they should be classified according to their respective characteristics – advisory, decision-making or both – their functions – expertise, evaluation or control – and their main powers and missions. This would allow citizens to take greater ownership of the functioning of our Republic's institutions and parliamentary work, as well as to facilitate citizen vigilance regarding possible malfunctions – I am thinking of conflicts of interest – of these same extra-parliamentary bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u178	In substance, I fully agree with your amendment. The issue of accessibility and intelligibility is certainly important. Once the text has been adopted, better work will have to be done on communication and reporting, as we said earlier. However, your amendment, which aims to define the configuration of the website or the information contained therein, has no place in the law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u180	Unfavorable opinion. But I'm afraid of Mr. Jumel's lightnings if I address the issue of the National Assembly's website... He'll worry about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u181	That's not exactly the rule!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u182	Imagine that I'm just an attentive reader on this subject. Transparency is necessary and needs to be implemented, but it is not a matter of legislative inclusion. A commitment made here by all the groups, under your authority, Mr President, could guarantee this aspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u183	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u184	To go in line with Sébastien Jumel's remark, we are indeed a little bit tickly when it comes to the relationship between the executive and the legislature. This legislature began very badly, with the speech in Versailles that shook the power of the Prime Minister and in which groups could not speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u185	You weren't there! We regretted it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u186	Precisely, we were not there, because we do not share this interpretation of the Fifth Republic. I know this exercise will be repeated. In addition, the use of orders is also one of the elements that have perverted the relationship between the executive and the legislature. We're ticklish. With regard to this amendment, it is a pity to give us a satisfaction without including it in the law. But, as I am in a constructive mood, I take note of its forthcoming application, which we will not fail to verify.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u187	Is that worth withdrawing from the amendment, Mrs Autain?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u188	[[Smile]] No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u189	Constructivity has limits!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u190	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u191	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament has never seen me angry, because I am a quiet person. I am simply saying that it is not up to him to express an opinion on the rules of procedure of our Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution. I say this all the more because, as Clementine Autain has just said, since the beginning of the legislature, this government has increased the opportunities to humiliate Parliament. The convening of Parliament in Versailles on the eve of the general policy speech was a decommissioning of the Prime Minister and a humiliation of Parliament. The remake scheduled for July, on the eve of the review of the constitutional reform, seems to me to be of the same nature. The recurring use of ordinances, that of scheduled legislative time for a law as important as the law concerning the future of farmers, confirms our reading grid of a President who wishes to concentrate all of his powers, with ministers at the orders of this harmful project. I am not angry, but I say, as an opponent, that we must be careful about the irrefragable principle of the separation of powers, to which we are deeply attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u192	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u193	The forum effects are always useful and can please those who try them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u194	And succeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u195	The Constitution, amended under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy, allows the President of the Republic to speak before the Congress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u196	Article 18!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u197	It turns out that Emmanuel Macron, when he was a candidate for the presidency of the Republic, made various commitments, including that of coming to Congress every year. He has been elected President of the Republic. I feel that what displeases you is the idea that he is doing what he had committed himself to the French. In accordance with this commitment, every year it wishes to report, exchange...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u198	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u199	... and present its broad guidelines to the Parliament meeting in Versailles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u200	Constitutionally, it's a dialogue of the deaf!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u201	Don't be displeased, this commitment he made to the French will be kept. Do not hesitate to participate in these sessions instead of judging upstream the speech that the President of the Republic can hold there! I would also like to return to the issue of democratic denial, which you have mentioned in relation to the use of scheduled time. Please be aware, Mr Jumel, that the request comes not from the Government but from all the group presidents...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u202	President Jacob!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u203	... including yours, Mr. Chassaigne, who, when the subject was first mentioned, wanted a scheduled time of 50 hours for the housing, development and digital development bill, ÉLAN.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u204	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u205	Don't say no, you weren't there, I was there; You can interview President Chassaigne. No one in the Conference of Presidents objected to this measure and Mr Chassaigne asked for a scheduled time of 50 hours for the ELAN law. Since then, Mr. Jacob has requested a scheduled time of 50 hours for the text that is being considered today. It was not the Government that imposed it on Parliament. When it comes to the Government's trial of denial of democracy, as you do on an ongoing basis, you must at least rely on real facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u206	They are!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u207	Mr President, I ask for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u208	There have already been two responses to the Commission and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u209	All right. We'll remember it on other occasions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u210	The next speaker is Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, who is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u211	I would like to welcome the fact that the National Advisory Commission for Travellers has been elevated to the legislative level and that it has legalized the presence of parliamentarians among its members. But I would also like to respond to your sarcasm, Mr. President, which is easy in your position. Of course we have differences within our group, but they are consistent: it is not because we defend the creation of extra-parliamentary bodies in areas that we consider to be priorities or where it seems important to us to evaluate public policies that we cannot propose the abolition of many Theodule committees which, in our view, are of no use. Perhaps we will not agree on the list of useful and useless agencies, but I believe that it is essential for parliamentarians to be interested in Travellers. I hope that this committee will have a sufficiently broad mission and will focus not only on the sacrosanct freedom of movement, which we must protect, but also on the incoherence of certain pieces of legislation, which obliges us to build reception areas in areas which are very dense and ill-suited to the reception of these populations, where they generate real tensions, or in places where they remain unoccupied while sometimes being disproportionately large. The Commission will have to think about how to organise the seasonal and pendulum flows of travellers, which we are content to undergo for the time being, while subjecting the territories to very strong constraints.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u212	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u213	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u214	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u215	Editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u216	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u217	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u218	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u219	This amendment concerns the National Sports Council, which is now an important tool and which this article proposes to raise to legislative level. However, as most of you certainly know, high-level sport is now the subject of a large-scale reform project aimed at both its governance and, more generally, the evolution of our sport model. The contours of the new organisation were presented by both the Minister of Sport and Denis Masseglia, President of the French National Olympic and Sports Committee. A series of seminars have been organized to reshape the governance bodies for sport. In this context, a decree of 18 March last extended the existence of the National Sports Council, but only for a period of one year; I therefore do not think it appropriate to raise this tool to the legislative level, which is intended to evolve in depth. The question of the presence of parliamentarians – which seems obvious to me – will have to be considered within the framework of the new mechanism. That is why the Government proposes not to raise this body to the legislative level, and therefore to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u221	Favourable opinion: the Council was created in 2013 for a period of five years and is now part of a comprehensive reform. Our philosophy is to deal with it as part of a new text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u222	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u223	It is a shame, I thought, that the debate would be free, in accordance with the principle of the separation of powers, and that having made a proposal that disturbs the Government, Parliament would not submit to the latter's injunction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u224	We can still introduce an amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u225	Minister, I understand that you intend to reform the sport democracy and the functioning of the sport system, but the vote on this article would mean that we parliamentarians, the representatives of the people, consider that our assembly should be represented in this discussion. The reorganisation of sport will, I imagine, pass through a legislative mechanism; when the reform is ready, and only at that time, you will submit to us a piece of legislation in which you will propose to evolve the National Sports Council. Therefore, this legalised council can be modified and anchored in your reform proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u226	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u227	Due to the concern for transparency and truth between us, I would like to return to the issue of scheduled time. It is not for a group chairman to propose to use it; It is the competence of the Bureau of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u228	The Conference of Presidents!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u229	When the Conference of Presidents tried to do so, President Chassaigne objected to the principle of scheduled time. On the other hand, it is within the prerogatives of the group president to fix the cursor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u230	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u231	I have checked it by text with André Chassaigne, whose words cannot be questioned in this House: he objected to the principle, then he used the cursor that his prerogatives offer him to extend the examination of the housing law – particularly important for us – to 50 hours, in order to allow the debate. I wanted to put the clocks back on time; But that does not change the denial of democracy that I have denounced, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u232	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u233	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u234	I'm asking for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u235	Would you like to speak on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u236	I have asked you to speak in the course of the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u237	Wait, Congressman. Earlier, you referred to your long experience in this assembly where you have been sitting, as you say, for sixteen years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u238	According to the voters, above all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u239	At one time, you served as Vice-President; you have therefore presided over the meetings; I was a Member of Parliament at that time, and I can testify that you have always enforced the Rules of Procedure with the appropriate rigour. I do the same when I chair the meetings, as do the current Vice-Presidents. In this assembly, we do not ask for or take the floor at any point, otherwise it would be untenable; You have asked for the floor in response to the committee or the Government, but since two speakers have already spoken, I have not given it to you, which was normal. You are asking for it now, but I do not know why: to make a point of order or to respond to the committee and the Government on a previous amendment. I give it to you so that everything goes well, but I would like to remind you of these rules, because that is what allows the debates to proceed smoothly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u240	After this long development, Mr President, allow me to ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u241	You had to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u242	It was as simple as that, and you didn't have to do my résumé to give me the floor and allow me to apply the rules to the letter. You were the third vice-president of the National Assembly when I was second...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u243	Oh! The recycling of socialism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u244	...and you had to learn the rules during those years. I therefore request a five-minute suspension of the meeting; If you want, we will have the opportunity to discuss the advantages of the regulation, which we did not adopt when it was proposed by a majority led by the Republicans. A session suspension: that's all I'm asking for!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u245	It's like saying things clearly! I will not go to see if you have the delegation of your group chair to ask for the suspension of the sitting...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u246	I got it. Don't be petty, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u247	... but this is granted for a period of three minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u248	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u249	[[The sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12.00 p.m. with Mr Hugues Renson in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u250	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u251	The Commission has deleted Article 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u252	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u253	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u255	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u256	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u257	I would like to point out – it will be a prerequisite for the amendments that I will defend earlier – that we are here to support the National Council of Cities, while we will subsequently abolish the bodies dealing with rurality. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u258	That's a good point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u259	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 29 to delete the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u260	It aims to bring the text into line with the work of the Government with the relevant actors. The purpose of the bill is to maintain the presence of parliamentarians on the follow-up committee of the Agence française de l'adoption. However, it has not met since 2011. In addition, the Government is currently working on a merger of this agency with the GIPED – Group of Public Interest Children at Risk. The aim is to bring child protection and adoption policies closer together. The arrangements for finalizing this rapprochement will be presented to you very shortly. That is why the Government is proposing that you not raise the representation of parliamentarians to the legislative level in a body that does not meet and that is intended to be merged with the IPED in order to increase its effectiveness. We therefore propose that you delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u261	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u262	The committee is in favour of this amendment. I would like to reply to Mr. Schellenberger, who personally challenged me by saying that I was submitted to the Government on the grounds that I had given a favourable opinion on the amendments he was submitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u263	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u264	Nice observation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u265	I do not consider that I am submitted to our colleagues in the La France insoumée or New Left groups because I have issued an opinion in favour of their amendments on the pluralism of appointments. My understanding of the debate does not lead me to believe that accepting an amendment is an act of submission. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On the contrary, it seems to me that accepting amendments honours the democratic debate. I therefore reiterate my support for the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u266	Very useful precision!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u267	The adoption of this amendment removes Amendment No 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u268	I have before me an amendment No 19 on the additional article after Rule 52. Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u269	It aims to raise the IFRECOR – French Coral Reef Initiative to the legislative level. That this body has, as has been the case for almost twenty years, four MPs and four senators is an important issue for France and the world. As I recalled in the general discussion, France is the world's fourth-largest coral reef power. It alone has 10% of the planet's reefs. The New Caledonian Coral Barrier, the second longest in the world, is listed on UNESCO's World Heritage List. Currently, coral reefs are threatened by climate change, including its impact on ocean acidification and warming. They already have a very significant whitening. Yet they contain a quarter of marine biodiversity – that is, how essential they are! IFRECOR meets regularly and is not, like other bodies, a paper committee with no real existence. It meets once a year, alternately in Paris and in one of the ultramarine communities that are members of it. It itself consists of several bodies representing ministries, socio-professional and non-governmental organizations and the local and regional authorities concerned. In short, it does a useful work at the national and international levels for the protection, promotion and preservation of our coral reefs. Finally, France has been the secretariat of the International Coral Reef Initiative since 2016. There are as many arguments which lead me to believe that the provisions of the text stem more from an oversight than from a refusal to raise IFRECOR to the legislative level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u271	This is a complex case. I'll take a few minutes to light it up. Until 2016, this regulatory body had by order-in-council members of Parliament. No regulatory text has since been published on this point and no referral or appointment took place in 2017. We have conducted extensive consultations, including with departments, to determine their ability to see parliamentarians in this organization, and to assess our own will. We then took stock with stakeholders, including the Overseas Ministry and the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. They said how important the presence of parliamentarians in this body – where they no longer had their place last year – is to them. This is a perfect illustration of the lack of information we suffer about this type of organization. On my initiative, the Committee on Laws has delivered an opinion against your amendment, my colleague. Since then, you have provided new information, on the basis of which I am issuing an opinion in favour of the amendment in my personal capacity, while recalling the unfavourable opinion expressed in committee in view of the information available to us at that time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u273	If we were to debate only the legislative framework of the text, this proposal would have a greater place in part of the environmental code. Nevertheless, the Government is particularly sensitive to the need to protect coral reefs threatened by pollution and global warming, which you have mentioned very well, Mr. In view of the stakes, which you have twice recalled – in the context of the general discussion and in defending this amendment – the Government issues a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u274	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u275	In the light of the new information provided, we support the position expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u276	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u277	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u278	Amendments Nos 18 and 11 may be presented in a consolidated format. The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u279	These are editorial amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u280	I have before me an amendment No 30, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 33. The Secretary of State has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u281	This amendment is intended to repeal certain provisions of article 12 of the Act of 27 July 2010 on the external action of the State, which contains several provisions of a regulatory nature. In addition, he maintained the presence of parliamentarians on the board of directors of the Agence française d'expertise technique internationale. It seems to me that this amendment, subject to the adoption of the sub-amendment which the rapporteur is about to present, could be acceptable to your House, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u282	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support sub-amendment No 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u283	This is a drafting sub-amendment. Subject to its adoption, the committee is in favour of Amendment No 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u284	I call Mr Raphaël Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 14 to delete the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u285	It aims to maintain the National Council for Spatial Planning and Development. This is still an essential issue. France has never, as far as it is today, seen its territories differentiate: when some enter into globalisation and benefit from significant public investment, especially in urban areas, others are finding it increasingly difficult to develop, disindustrialize and fall behind. Spatial planning is the answer to these differences; It is the tool developed by the state over time to support republican equality. In the face of the forces we face today, it is important to maintain the National Council for Spatial Planning and Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u286	He's right, this removal is a very bad signal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u288	The political dimension of the subject is obviously paramount: spatial planning is an essential issue, as the action of the National Conference of Territories shows. But here I will give you a technical answer: this council was set up to monitor the application of the law of 4 February 1995 on the orientation for the planning and development of the territory, therefore, twenty-three years ago. He's not meeting anymore. It is therefore reasonable for me to delete it, as the Conference on Rural Development had just done. Here we have to distinguish between the technique and the policy. Many of us are sincere, deeply committed to land-use planning and rural development; I know how important all the signatories of this bill – including Mr Christian Jacob – are to rural areas as well as to spatial planning. They would certainly not have endorsed a text that would harm them! Unfavorable opinion, but again, for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u290	Same opinion. Of course, there is no question of suggesting that the removal of a body that did not meet in 2014, 2015 or 2016 and that no longer has any activity would show any lack of interest in spatial planning by the Government – which I thank you for reminding us of the definition since, no doubt, it might have escaped the Government or your colleagues. Other bodies, such as the National Conference of Territories, which deals in particular with land-use planning and whose dialogue forum met no later than last Thursday. Let us note that this old structure, created 23 years ago, has been replaced by other tools put in place by other governments: each one here could cite actions in favour of spatial planning carried out between 2014 and 2016. This body no longer exists in practice, there is no need to raise it to the legislative level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u291	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u292	Thank you, rapporteur, for these technical answers. Nevertheless, it is a matter of abolishing an extra-parliamentary body enshrined in the law, and you answer me by arguing that the National Conference of Territories exists, which depends on the goodwill of the Government... You thus reject the logic presented in the rostrum at the beginning of this text: that of the separation of powers, and therefore of Parliament's ability to deal with matters of concern to it. Admittedly, this council has not met for some time; But in my view, these issues became major again in 2018, and our role should be to organize meetings of these bodies. We cannot depend on the Government, who walks us – if you forgive me for the expression – with its national conferences of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u293	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u294	The next speaker is Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u295	With the same logic as the previous amendment, we propose that you do not delete the Rural Conference. We have elevated the Observatory of Natural, Agricultural and Forestry Areas to the legislative level. But we must not reduce rurality to these areas: rurality is much more than that! They are spaces of economic life, of social life, of cultural life – in short, inhabited spaces. France was built thanks to its landscapes, but also to its populations. I would therefore prefer a Rurality Conference to an Observatory of Natural, Agricultural and Forest Areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u296	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u298	For the reasons already mentioned, the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion. I would like to reiterate here my commitment, and that of a very large number of our colleagues, to rural life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u299	Prove it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u300	But our logic here is technical: an organization created to evaluate a law, which has existed for thirteen years and which no longer meets, it simply doesn't make sense. There is no need to appoint parliamentarians in instances which, de facto, no longer exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u302	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u303	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u304	We support this amendment, as we supported the previous one. The problems are increasing in the territories of the Republic: medical demography, the disappearance of local public services... We heard yesterday the President and CEO of La Poste, which allowed us to stress the importance of preserving this public service to which the French are deeply attached. We also know the Government's ambitions to reorganize the map of the courts of full exercise or to get rid of, as the debate on rail reform has shown, the "small lines" of trains, which we call for in terms of lifelines. It is more important than ever to take care of the planning of the territory as well as the plum of our eyes. It is not because these organizations are not brought together that it is not legitimate to give them a new breath! If the new world wants to change the situation and show that it can listen to all the territories of the Republic, it is up to it to resettle these commissions and make them live. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The preservation of the territories and the ardent obligation not to abandon rural life would fully justify the continuation of these commissions, which could be useful if they were brought together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u305	The Commission has deleted Rule 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u306	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u307	The aim of this amendment is to abolish the abolition of the National Commission for Planning, Planning and Land Use. This is timely, as we debated last week in committee the housing, development and digital bill, known as ÉLAN, which will soon be coming to a public sitting. Construction and urban planning must be distinguished. The Government takes care of the first: it is necessary to build quickly, to make figures. Instead, we defend the second, which is a vision of the construction of the city and its spaces of exchange, encounter, work... A city is inhabited, occupied; It is the place of social interactions. It therefore seems important to us to have bodies that shed light on these debates, without reducing the organizational issues of our cities and our villages to building issues. Again, it is a matter of planning and planning over time. This committee would therefore have its full place in the current debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u309	For the same reasons, unfavorable opinion. But I want to tell you good news: Parliament can now decide to be represented in the bodies it wants! In terms of housing, rurality... we take over our destiny. The new world, as you say, does not refuse the presence of parliamentarians in new forums that can be decisive for important public policies, on the contrary: it is up to us to submit amendments in each text, so that the usefulness of each body is well defined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u310	You are amusing, rapporteur, you know what is happening to our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u311	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] But, by grace, let us not reduce this discussion to the rescue of instances whose encephalogram has been flat for years, simply because in their denomination, there is a subject that is dear to our hearts!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u313	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u314	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u315	With all due respect, rapporteur, your arguments are crazy! You recall that the presence of parliamentarians in extra-parliamentary bodies must be the result of a legislative provision, but you forget that this is the result of an amendment voted in the Senate. On the other hand, great, we will be able to create extra-parliamentary bodies by law tomorrow. But this text does not change anything! It was already possible, and it was already possible before the 2017 law. Don't come to tell us that it is thanks to the new world that tomorrow parliamentarians will sit in extra-parliamentary bodies thanks to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u316	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u317	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u318	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u319	We have this discussion for the third consecutive time. It is not necessary to mix everything, nor to pick random themes to try to turn it into battle horses and create polemics of all kinds. The rapporteur's point is technical; we remove organisms that no longer exist, which in no way shows any animosity or disdain for rurality, spatial planning or urban planning. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The rapporteur has answered all your questions perfectly; From now on, the legislator will be able to create thematic bodies in each bill under review.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u320	The Commission has deleted Rule 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u321	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u322	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u323	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u324	If I have wished to defend the existence of certain extra-parliamentary bodies, some others, which are useless or counterproductive, must be abolished. This also concerns many other Theodule committees or various high authorities, probably too many. This amendment proposes the eventual abolition of France Stratégie, a body attached to the Prime Minister who has, in recent years, shone by the excellent ideas she has given to the public debate. In July 2016, the organization explained to us that rural areas were doing well, and that thanks to the development of large metropolitan areas, disadvantaged territories benefited from a social protection system. Alleluia! Similarly, France Stratégie had developed the idea of an "implicit rent" for the occupants. I would understand that this amendment is not accepted, since the one who led France Strategy from 2013 to 2017 was appointed, last July, coordinator of the major investment plan announced by the President of the Republic. In line with the amendments that I have defended today, however, I am concerned that those who have imagined proposals that are so disconnected from the reality of the French will have to manage the planning of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u325	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u326	Opinion unfavourable, because France Stratégie is not an extra-parliamentary body. It therefore falls outside the scope of this text. In substance, the reflections on France Strategy are relevant – and indeed topical.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u327	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u328	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u329	The IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote in favour of this text, which sets order in a matter that was in great need of it. We thank and congratulate the group chairmen and the President of the National Assembly for taking this initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u330	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u331	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u332	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u333	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and on healthy and sustainable food (No. 627, 902, 838). The remaining time for the discussion of this text is 11 hours and 59 minutes for the Republic on the move, of which 391 amendments are under discussion; Nine hours twenty-three minutes for the Republican Group, of which 957 amendments are under discussion; three hours forty minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of which 62 amendments are under discussion; five hours six minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, of which 159 amendments are under discussion; five ten minutes for the New Left Group, of which 105 amendments are under discussion; three hours fifty-five minutes for the La France Group, 92 of which are under discussion; three hours forty-four for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of which 48 amendments are under discussion; and 19 minutes for non-attached Members, of which 140 amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u334	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with amendment No. 1996 containing an additional article after article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u335	Amendment No 1996 is not defended. I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 1742.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u336	André Chassaigne would have wanted me not to defend an amendment to which MODEF – the Agricultural Trade Union Confederation of Family Farmers –, not MEDEF, is deeply attached. This amendment proposes to extend to meat and cow's milk the multiplier mechanism, partially reintroduced by Article 23 of the Rural Development Act 2005. Based on a simple principle of price control in relation to sales prices, this mechanism consists of applying a coefficient limiting the margin rates of the whole sector, and in particular those of distributors. I am aware, given the content of the debates over the last two days, that this amendment is unlikely to be adopted, but it still seems to me that the multiplier coefficient set up at the Liberation could be brought back to life in a period of deep crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u338	The multiplier mechanism already exists for perishable fruit and vegetables, but it has never been used. The idea may seem good, but it requires state regulation of prices and the market, which is difficult to conceive of in certain sectors which are essentially export oriented. Moreover, such a mechanism is excessively complex and its collateral effects are difficult to anticipate. There is no price, but a multitude of prices, depending on quality – milk is the most important example. The constraint it imposes on the various players in the sector could stimulate dialogue between them, without significantly rebalancing the balance of power. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u339	The Minister for Agriculture and Food has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u340	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u341	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 352.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u342	The amendment is intended to follow up on the Sapin 2 law, under which OTC sales between producers were prohibited – this type of small-week sales contributed to inflation. It is therefore proposed to entrust producer organisations – OP – or associations of producer organisations – PDO – with the allocation of volumes to members. Today, the management of contracts is left to the will of the dairies. Since we want to restore sovereignty, freedom of action and autonomy to dairy producers, the amendment proposes to grant the management of volumes and contracts to OPs and PDOs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u343	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u344	Legally, the question arises as to the relationship between this amendment and Article L. 631-24-1 of the Rural Code, introduced by the Sapin 2 Act on the prohibition of the sale of milk contracts, which is a provision of public policy. If I understand correctly, you would like to maintain the ban on transfers for consideration between farmers, but allow them between producers of an OP or a PDO.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u345	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u346	In my view, paragraph 19 of Article 1e r already allows this: it provides that framework agreements – which concern OPs or PDOs – specify "the distribution of the quantities to be delivered between the producer members of the organisation or producers represented by the association and the manner in which contracts are transferred". Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u347	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u348	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u349	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u350	I maintain the amendment. Of course, the text allows it, but it is the dairies that have their hands, where we would like the farmers to take it back.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u351	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 2467.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u352	Today, initiatives are increasing to try to restore the margins of producers, thereby restoring income to our farmers. I am thinking in particular of the brand "who is the boss?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It seems essential to us today to rethink the methods of production and marketing in order to allow the recognition of this type of win-win approach. In order to give visibility to such steps, the amendment proposes the testing of a label guaranteeing the respect of a sustainable and responsible specification, which would be defined by the parties under the auspices of the public authorities. This would allow, on the one hand, to give a fair price to agri-food companies which would subscribe to the approach and, on the other hand, to protect the environment and ensure the traceability of products, which corresponds to a very strong consumer demand. This could be managed in connection with channel contracts, but also with voluntary contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u353	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u354	Your amendment is more like a political plea than a normative text. I fully endorse the approach, which is in keeping with the spirit of this bill: the development of multi-year contracting and better remuneration are objectives set out in section 1 of the Act, while environmental protection, better food quality and innovation for industrialists are set out in Title II. What you are proposing is already possible through replacement contracts. I am not sure that this amendment makes much of a normative contribution. On the other hand, I contest your assertion that minimum prices would not be practicable without the risk of a conviction for cartel by the European Commission. Multiannuality is already possible, I concede that it must be encouraged and given the means to develop. I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u355	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 2. First of all, Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u356	As we begin our examination of Article 2, I am going to put my feet on the plate to some extent: while it is commendable to secure framework agreements and to preserve the rights of producers, one can wonder about the real effectiveness of this system on prices in the absence of a framework for promotions and practices of large distribution. The bill is not specific enough about the brands of distributors, nor about certain unacceptable sales practices such as vagnosing, which devalue our protected designations of origin and geographical indications. This text on the balance of trade relations also lacks ambition to limit concentration on purchasing, a major issue that it does not address. As you know, Casino, Auchan and U System, which account for more than 30% of purchases, announced a few weeks ago their willingness to create a common plant...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u357	European.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u358	...yes, European, without causing any reaction from national or European competition authorities. As long as you do not attack the hyperconcentration of the distribution, minister, do you not put the plow before the oxen?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u359	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u360	Article 2 deals with a sensitive but central subject: the possibility of sanctioning breaches of contractual obligations in order to prevent the buyer from abusing the particular situation of one or more producers. If, tomorrow, the reversal of the price-building mechanism is to be effective and to produce real effects – the question is even more relevant in the wake of the announcement of the consolidation of purchasing power stations, which my colleague has just mentioned – we must, beyond the discussions we had yesterday on indicators, ensure that the procedures will be respected, that the contracts will be clearly balanced, that all producers will be offered contracts and that they will be in line with the framework agreements. It is at this price alone that we can reverse the balance of power in trade relations. Finally, to echo the remarks of several speakers who have been surprised that we can, on our benches, wish for a ministry intervention to ensure compliance with contractual obligations and, where appropriate, the use of sanctions, I would point out that being in a market economy does not, on the contrary, prohibit being in favour of regulation and intervention by the public authorities in order to ensure that the relationship between producers and buyers is balanced. This is all the more true for MPs elected in mountain territories such as Cantal – my colleague Jean-Yves Bony will not contradict me – where farmers have to cope with natural handicaps and therefore bear higher production costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u361	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u362	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u363	In the first exchange I had with farmers in my constituency on the draft law from the General Food States, of which they had become aware either through their trade union organisation or through the press, they all told me of the ridiculous nature of the sanction envisaged by the legislator against buyers in case of breach of contractual obligations. In the first draft of the text, we were offered a fine of 75,000 euros, which seems derisory. Of course, it depends. If the producer has committed a fault and belongs to the category of smallholders, a fine of 75,000 euros can be imposed on his company. In the same way, if it is an artisanal processing company, as there are many in the agri-food sector, such a sanction is likely to cause lasting harm to it. On the other hand, if we are dealing, as is the case in my constituency, with Lactalis, Bigard, Auchan or Carrefour – whose president and chief executive officer, Alexandre Bompard, receives 10 million euros of emoluments per year – then, as Jacques Chirac, who knew himself in agriculture, said,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u364	No, not this one, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u365	[[Smiles and exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] ...it will touch one of them without moving the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Jumel speak, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u367	I say this in front of a presiding officer who is very attached, and even faithful, to Jacques Chirac. He will agree with this quotation, which marked the history of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u368	Very good reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u369	That is why we have tabled several amendments aimed at reinvigorating the law and sanctioning, ensuring that the sanction prevents the commission of the offence. We propose graduated measures, which shows our openness. One of our amendments is to set a penalty of 5% of turnover. I measure that it potentially presents the limitations that I mentioned earlier. Another of our amendments, more realistic – I hope it will prosper – tends to establish a penalty proportional to the turnover of the offender. Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, if we want a law that protects us, if we want to give ourselves the means to defend ourselves the weakest face to the strongest, if we want to credify the idea that this law will allow producers to receive a fair level of remuneration, then this amendment on sanctions must flourish in the debate that is going on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u370	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u371	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] I also met one of the farmers in my constituency a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u372	What a feat!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u373	By any chance?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u374	Maybe it was Chirac?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u375	It was in the region of Doué-en-Anjou, a beautiful place that I invite you to discover, ladies and gentlemen! My interlocutor explained to me that over the years his production had been destined for only one buyer, with whom relations had deteriorated sharply. It had destabilized all of his activity and impoverished him irremediably.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u376	Welcome to real life!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u377	If there should be sanctions, article 2 allows for a better definition of sanctions, with a view to transparency and security. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Personally, I am in favour of the proportionality of sanctions. By definition, punishment is a reminder of the framework. If it is not proportional, it locks up in the past and in resentment. In this case, it can no longer, while it is its ultimate goal, be oriented towards the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u378	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u379	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u380	We are dealing with article 2, on sanctions for breach of contractual obligations. We are in the relationship between the seller, namely the producer, and the buyer, most often an average or a large area. First of all, I would like to point out that the debate in committee was, from our point of view, constructive. It has paved the way for a change of principle, thanks to the abolition of the famous ceiling of 75000 euros – we will come back to that when we study the amendments. This is a living example of the possible co-construction between Parliament and the executive. We obviously call for the generalization of this method, because it is respectful of the diversity of our sensitivities, but also of our territories. As much as we strongly condemn the use of scheduled legislative time – we have already spoken on this – we welcome the search for consensus, at least on this Article 2. I'm going back to this article. In a globalized and capitalistic world, the law must aim to protect the most fragile and restore, through its effects, the economic and legal distortion existing in a commercial relationship. Large and medium-sized surfaces are seen as mastodones that crush everything on their way: artisans, traders, producers, quality of life. The modern world seems to be built exclusively around consumption; This model of society does not suit us very much. It is a matter for us to restore social justice in the commercial relationship. The definition of sanctions related to breach of contractual obligations seems to us to be a good lever to send a strong political message: distribution cannot take precedence over production. We will always be on the side of producers and breeders, as we have demonstrated and will continue to do. That will be the meaning of the amendment that we will be presenting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u381	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u382	On 1 February, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance referred the matter to the Autorité de la concurrence on the application of the competition rules in the agricultural sector. I have two very simple and very specific questions to ask you about this, minister. Firstly, knowing that the Autorité de la concurrence gave its opinion on 3 May last, more than 20 days ago, what consequences did you draw from that opinion with regard to the bill that you are defending before us? Have you, for example, prepared amendments? I assume that the Government did not bring the matter before the Autorité de la concurrence for nothing. The very detailed opinion given by the latter – I have it in my hands – deals very precisely with the issues raised in the bill that we are currently considering. Secondly, we see that the issue of purchasing centres is at the heart of our discussions, as Vincent Descoeur has just recalled. You want to facilitate the regrouping of farmers, which is very good, but we also need to think about how to combat the excessive concentration of purchasing power plants as they are now, because we see that their purchasing power is growing a little more every day. However, when the Government referred the matter to the Autorité de la concurrence, it did not raise any questions about purchasing power plants and the excessive concentration of purchasing power. But he could have done it. Frankly, this would have provided us with considerable insight into the debate we have in the Chamber these days.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u383	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u384	This bill is very important, if not vital, for the agricultural world and farmers. We spent the night discussing Article 1, which deals with contractual relations. We defend farmers, you and us, it is important, but we do not have the same vision. When we discussed the possibility of imposing a selling price, you blamed us for wanting to establish an administered or directed economy. The problem is that the power ratio between purchasing plants and farmers is completely unbalanced. It is clear that professional organisations will not be able to resolve this imbalance which exists in the negotiations at first glance. Hence the importance of Article 1 from our point of view and our attempt to make you aware of this. Article 2 should also be improved: when there is a problem in the negotiations and there is a differential, it will be necessary to be able to apply genuinely dissuasive sanctions. In its current version, the text does not go so far. It is therefore necessary, through various amendments, to enrich Article 2 so that it really constitutes aid for farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u385	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u386	Mr Fasquelle, I have tabled a number of amendments to the articles following Article 2, which have the consequences of the opinion of the Autorité de la concurrence. As regards the concentration of large areas, I have also tabled an amendment, introducing an additional article after Article 10,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u387	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u388	... which aims to strengthen the tasks of the Autorité de la concurrence in the area of merger control.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u389	There's nothing in it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u390	This amendment tends to change the text we all know as the Macron Act. It will allow ex post control, the only effective means of controlling concentrations between purchasing centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u391	We'll talk about it again, but it's empty!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u392	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u393	In Article 1, we worked on contracting, on the concept of contract and on taking responsibility for the various actors. If we want everyone to be able to assume their responsibilities, it is essential that sanctions be applied in case of refusal to contract, since we have made this contract compulsory. Hence the importance of Article 2. During the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, concerns were expressed about the sanction provided for against the producer. The text we are drafting is intended to protect the producer, to ensure that he can better work his selling prices on the basis of production cost indicators, as long as he is part of a producer organisation, which will help him to respond to consumer demands. I would point out that the producer will only be punished if he deliberately fails to conclude a written contract. Knowing that the producer needs such a contract to work, sell his products and live, I do not think that we will often find ourselves in this situation; Failure will not come from him. There will therefore be few such cases. I come to the other questions that have been asked. As the rapporteur has pointed out, we will have the opportunity to work on certain subjects, such as the framework for promotions, by proposing amendments on Article 9, and the purchasing centres, to which the rapporteur has devoted an amendment to Article 10. Mr Descoeur, it is indeed essential that the procedure be respected. It was important to provide for sanctions and to strengthen the means to implement them, which was the subject of article 3. Mr Fasquelle, you asked me about the referral to the Autorité de la concurrence. The Commission's views on practices permitted under competition law are important. In particular, the ADLC proposes concrete avenues for the implementation of the draft law and confirms the diagnosis made here during the General Food States on the importance of the development of the structuring of the channels and the contracting. Of course, we must continue this work. Unlike the Sapin 2 law, which did not provide for penalties for non-compliance, the law provides for all penalties and tends to strengthen them. In order to determine their amount, we have adopted the principle of proportionality: if it violates the law, a group such as Lactalis can be sentenced to 2% of its turnover, the penalties imposed on producers being less severe. We will also work on the name and shame and the publicity of the sanction. Sometimes you can do more harm to a society by attacking its image than by imposing a fine. A level of sanction must be set in proportion to the failure of the contract. That is what we will try to do in this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u394	Minister, thank you. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-24-O1221.u395	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bill to balance trade relations in the agriculture and food sector and healthy and sustainable food. The meeting is adjourned.
