ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill by Messrs. Fabien Roussel, Jean-Paul Dufrègne and several of their colleagues, creating a French list of tax havens (No. 585, 683).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u3	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the rapporteur of the text, Fabien Roussel, who, together with his political group, is making the subject of the fight against tax havens resonate, which is a fundamental aspect of the fight against tax evasion. Indeed, there are subjects on which Parliament as a whole must take a stand and get involved: the fight against aggressive tax optimisation is one, as is the fight against money laundering through organised crime. These subjects lead us irretrievably and relentlessly to tax havens. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, let us take over our prerogatives! The 2013 Banking Act provided for an annual debate to be held before the Finance and Foreign Affairs Committees. To date, it has never taken place. It is high time that this changed. It is indeed the national representation which must not only establish such a list, a key tool allowing the use of our mechanisms of taxation of profits in France, but also verify its operational character. The publication of the black and grey lists of the European Commission fully justifies that this debate should finally take place in Parliament. Fabien Roussel's bill relays, in my view, our initiatives brought by amendment in November and December,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u4	Really? She's just relaying them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u5	...not only against these deadly phenomena for our social pact, but also for Europe. "Where there is a will, there is a path," the rapporteur and his colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left tell us in substance. I would like to reassure them on this point: their will is not isolated. In time and time, the majority will, with them, converge all the good will on the subject, in order, finally, to reverse a paradigm of laissez-faire in terms of aggressive tax optimisation. I would remind our colleagues in the group of this laissez-faire. The Republicans, if they were present, only too quickly succeeded President Nicolas Sarkozy's overwhelming statement in September 2009, before the Summit of the G20 in Pittsburgh: "Tax havens, bank fraud is over. » I come to a constructive criticism of the bill. Is there a coherent, systemic and effective response to this text? The subject of non-cooperative states and territories – ETNC – is obviously essential. The bill expands this concept, to which it adds a new sanction. As my colleagues have said, this bill raises many interesting points. It makes it possible to punish companies passing through States which apply zero or particularly low overall or partial rates of taxation. It also highlights the issue of bank control, partly in set-aside since the Constitutional Council censored country-by-country reporting in its December 2016 decision on the Sapin 2 law. Having said that, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I fear that the proposal for a law, focusing everything on the concept of ETNC, will not be able to solve our equation with total efficiency. Just and strong beating requires a graduated arsenal, well defined by us, legislator, and the account is not quite there today. On the other hand, unlike my colleagues, the Republicans or the UDI-Agir, I do not refer to Europe alone to finally put decisive blows to tax havens and to the industry of destroying our income taxes. I would also remind you, as the European Commission and the European Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs have said and reiterated, that it is up to the states to take their responsibility to sanction harmful practices of tax havens and businesses, which are instrumental in their international laws and conventions. It is therefore at the same time that we must push the spotlight, not only at the level of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the European Union, but also at the national level. I would also like to highlight the political action taken by the European Commission, in particular the country-specific reports contained in its "winter package" which were made public yesterday, 7 March. Read these documents, ladies and gentlemen: the Commission pins on entire pages the harmful tax practices of certain Member States, including Luxembourg, Ireland, Malta, the Netherlands and Belgium. It is therefore clear that the phenomenon far exceeds a few Caribbean island States, and that it will be necessary to take firm action on all fronts. The concept of ETNC is therefore not a sufficient measure against tax evasion. Finally, last point, when to act? Rendez-vous is already in the process of examining the bill against tax evasion that you have announced to us, Madam Secretary of State, which will soon arrive in Parliament. The Government has therefore taken a date. It will also be an opportunity to draw the consequences of the joint fact-finding mission on the procedures for the prosecution of tax offences, which is trivia called the "Bercy lock". This bill will not only bring the concept of tax haven up to date, but will also lead a true public policy against tax fraud, in addition to the 2013 law. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Let us act collectively to make all the tools to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax optimization operational, and let us find ourselves in the debate on the tax evasion bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u6	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u7	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I very much agree with the authors of this proposal. Yes, the fight against international tax evasion is a major issue for our public finances. Yes, it is paradoxical that the list of tax havens provided by the OECD now includes only one state, Trinidad and Tobago. Yes, we need to get this organization to be more strict and not to step back from diplomatic considerations. I believe, however, that the proposed method will not reduce the scourge of international tax fraud, and that such measures would, on the other hand, turn against our businesses. What the authors of this proposal are asking is that France alone do what the OECD is struggling to achieve. Such a solo battle would be ineffective against what they rightly denounce: the scandalous escape sets of Google, Microsoft, Amazon and other multinationals. On the other hand, it would certainly penalise French companies of international importance, which would be subject to sanctions because of their presence in certain countries, even though this presence is indispensable. It would be to play the game of their European and especially American competitors who, thanks to this law, would be rid of French companies, often the most innovative. Moreover, it is easy to predict that the states unilaterally listed by France on its list of ETNCs would take retaliatory measures and deter their own companies from investing in France. This proposal is also too simplistic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u8	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u9	It puts in the same bag, under the name of non-cooperative states or territories, states that practice banking secrecy – now a very small minority – and those that create harmful tax competition. The latter, which do not fall within the current category of ETNCs, are extremely numerous, including among OECD members and even the European Union. Why has the list of ETNCs, which is currently governed by the provisions of Article 238-0 A of the General Tax Code, and which the purpose of this proposal is to amend, been drawn up? The aim was to overcome bank secrecy and convince the states that practiced it to conclude, with France as well as with other OECD member countries, a convention allowing the exchange of information, in particular banking. This list therefore constituted a weapon in the hands of the French negotiators to obtain the lifting of bank secrecy by the states that still practiced it – a very effective weapon, moreover, since very few States or territories, now, refuse the administrative exchange of information. This provision should therefore be retained, especially since States which, after signing such a convention, do not faithfully apply it, are threatened to become "grey" and then "black" again, i.e. to return to the list of ETNCs. But one thing is to have overcome bank secrecy, another will be to defeat harmful tax practices, i.e. tax competition between states. Many countries, including OECD members, and even the European Union, are engaging in aggressive tax competition, offering benefits to businesses and individuals who invest in, or settle in, their homes. Let us not forget, moreover, that France itself has several very attractive mechanisms which are criticized by some of its partners. The reduction of the corporate tax rate to 25 per cent by 2022 could also be seen by our partners as a tax competition offensive. That is why it is unrealistic to include all these States on the list of ETNCs. This would lead to the trivialization of the concept of non-cooperative states, and to the loss of the infamous character that it currently has. This would also lead to an exaggerated extension of the scope of sanctions: would it be reasonable to punish our companies investing in Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic, all countries considered to be pursuing harmful tax competition? You have understood me, ladies and gentlemen, I am defending the only realistic idea that the fight against tax competition cannot be initiated unilaterally by France, otherwise it will not only be ineffective but will also turn against our companies. France has no chance of putting an end to the harmful tax competition practised by its partners on its own. In this respect, nothing would be useful for him to caracolate on his own: the OECD countries must move forward together. The fight against tax evasion can only be international. When it is proposed to Parliament to approve an international agreement to combat harmful tax competition, I will strongly support it. I hope this one will soon be born.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u10	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u11	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, we should first of all thank Mr Fabien Roussel and the co-signatories of this bill for their parliamentary initiative, which today brings about an essential debate in our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u12	It's starting well!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u13	Support should also be given to the intention expressed in the text to establish a public debate, a dialogue between the executive branch and national representation, and an annual discussion of the list of non-cooperative states and territories before the relevant parliamentary committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u14	[[Smile]] Finally, a text that will be voted on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u15	Such provisions are also provided for in Article 6 of the Act of 26 July 2013 on the separation and regulation of banking activities. The fight against tax evasion is a priority of the action of our majority. Updating of the French list of tax havens is necessary. We therefore pursue the same objective as you, colleagues in the GDR Group,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u16	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u17	... but we do not share the arguments or the method, which I would like to show in four points. The first point concerns the criteria for this list of tax havens, which must be realistic. Article 1 of the proposed law sets out four criteria for defining non-cooperative states or territories. It is sufficient for a State to meet only one of these criteria to be considered a tax haven. The last of these four criteria – allowing "the existence of harmful tax regimes" – is itself defined by seven sub-criteria. Again, only one of these sub-criteria needs to be addressed in order to be classified as a harmful tax regime, therefore as a non-cooperative State. These seven sub-criteria are questionable in their implementation and legal definition. Thus, the criterion of "effective tax level significantly lower [...] than the effective French tax rate" would be to include the majority of European countries. That of "advantaged tax measures reserved for non-residents" could lead to France being included in the list of tax havens. Finally, the notion of "tax measures lacking transparency" might appear arbitrary, therefore unfair. The criteria you propose are therefore too broad and therefore inapplicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u18	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u19	The "all or nothing" does not allow for flexible sanctions. Secondly, sanctions must be applicable. Article 2 of the draft law sets out as its sole sanction the prohibition of French credit institutions from exercising in non-cooperative States as defined in Article 1. Under these conditions, which we believe to be utopian, French banks should close almost all of their foreign subsidiaries. Let's imagine this scenario for a moment. What would be the impact on the attractiveness and competitiveness of our financial system? What would be the cost in terms of jobs for the French economy? I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that you are sensitive to these arguments. Thirdly, this fight must be part of a European framework. As you recall in your explanatory memorandum, according to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, the annual loss of tax revenue in France would amount to EUR 60 to 80 billion, while the European Commission estimates that the same loss for the European Union states would amount to more than EUR 1000 billion. Europeans rightly demand more transparency. The European Union is positioning itself on the international scene as a driving force in the fight against tax havens and is seeking to change the current OECD list. You point out in your bill the role of intermediaries, taking the example of a Côtes-d'Armor tax firm that has helped hundreds of companies not to pay their social contributions. The European Commission has precisely proposed to apply much stricter rules of transparency to intermediaries. The European list of tax havens, based on three criteria, may not yet be perfect, but it is a legitimate and interesting first step. It will then be necessary to work on the associated sanctions, which can be adjusted according to the criteria. Fourth and final point: this fight must be part of a more global approach. The tax optimisation circuits are global. It is in the collective interest to fight this scourge. Cross-border construction through Europe is therefore necessary and the trans-party debate seems indispensable. All subjects will have to be addressed, including the one raised today following the Panama Papers, the launch by the European Union of a tax infringement procedure against Greece, Cyprus and Malta concerning massive VAT fraud on luxury yachts. At the level of the National Assembly, the debate is also under way, through fact-finding missions on Bercy's lock and on tax optimisation and fraud. It will intensify in March, when the Government announces its anti-tax fraud plan. This vehicle will allow us to develop applicable measures within a more global framework. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I therefore look forward to continuing this necessary discussion on tax havens with you very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u20	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u21	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Vice-President of the Committee, the rapporteur, on this international day of women's rights, it is not equality between women and men, however important, that we are gathered to defend, but equality of citizens in the face of taxation. How can we explain to our compatriots that we must make efforts, reduce our public spending and our deficit, when certain companies and citizens use the law, play with it or violate it to pay little or no taxes at all? Tax havens are part of this chain that allows for tax optimisation, evasion or fraud. This apparently positive term of "paradis" – spoken in German of "oasis", in English of "refuge" – covers a reality that is only positive for those who use it and expresses in fact, on the part of the latter, an individualism driven to its climax. This text on tax havens offers us several criteria for defining tax havens. It deserves to be welcomed because it promotes important international and European initiatives, which represent progress. I am thinking in particular of the list of the European Union, which has taken time to emerge and which today exists, even if we do not know how far it will lead us. I am also thinking of the definition criterion used in the proposed law, which is based on the implementation of measures to limit the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, so-called BEPS – although, and this is one of the criticisms that could be made of the text, this criterion remains fairly broad and imprecise despite the existence of an inclusive framework for monitoring their implementation. Another important element of the bill is the place it gives to Parliament in identifying tax havens. However, the text lacks a comprehensive vision. As you say in your report, Mr Roussel: it is not only through the definition of tax havens that we will solve the problem of optimisation, tax evasion and tax fraud. We therefore invite you, as we have done on several occasions, to put your approach in the context of the future anti-tax fraud bill. We often wait for economic or media events to take place in tax matters, but we are desperately lacking in a long-term strategy that allows us to anticipate. So we're looking at how to capture the digital economy, in which future tax evasions are to be feared – for example through financial flows that trade out of any frame, and here I'm thinking about cryptocurrency. You use in the report the very interesting image of the hydra of Lerne, adding that in the absence of a Jupiter, we would need a Hercule – we will succeed in finding it together. And it is true that every time we produce a tax rule, others find the way to overstep it. That is why we must be able to adapt constantly. That is what we are ready to do together, here, tonight and, above all, tomorrow. We must absolutely oblige ourselves to look at what is happening next to us because, as we all know, we are operating in an international environment. I am thinking in particular of the US tax reform, which is the true foot of the BEPS project. In our work, in particular the future transposition of European directives and BEPS work, we will have to pay attention to what is happening elsewhere instead of shooting at us and harming our companies in the name of compliance with certain rules and failing to take into account the international context. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Yes, multilateralism is necessary; Yes, the ACCIS project – a common consolidated corporate tax base – is a solution; Yes, profit split is also one for transfer pricing. But let us not forget that, in the meantime, exemplary actions can be taken. That's what you're proposing. So I suggest that we find ourselves around the anti-fraud bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u22	The general discussion is closed. Mr Fabien Roussel, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u23	I would like to say a word to the various speakers. [[Applause on all benches]] It is true that the subject we are addressing is difficult, complex and even dangerous: we are attacking powerful interests, the mafia – it was said by Laurent Saint-Martin. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all those who are tackling this phenomenon, including journalists and whistleblowers. I would like to pay a special tribute to journalist Jan Kuciak, recently shot dead, with his wife in Slovakia. We must have the courage to confront this difficult issue at the international, European and national levels. We said from the beginning: the aim of the law was not to embrace the whole phenomenon of tax evasion and evasion; If that were the case, we would not have proposed it in a niche, unless we devoted the whole day to it. The text merely aimed to include in French law the criteria adopted by the European Union, in order to establish a French list of tax havens. It does not address the issue of sanctions. I thank the staff of the GDR Group and the Committee on Finance for their work, which enabled us to prepare the text and then enrich it in committee with the clarifications requested during the debate. Translating these criteria or the code of conduct drawn up by the European Union in 1997 into "hard" law in French law was not simple. The text attempts to do so, and parliamentary work must help to enrich it. We have answered all the questions put to us in committee, trying to do the best we can. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Madam Secretary of State, I confess that I did not understand you very well: you propose that we wait for the legislation that the Government will be presenting shortly, but what will it contain? Will it take the criteria of the European Union to establish the French list, which leads to accounting for fifty-five tax havens, or the list of the European Union, according to which there are only seven more? For if the European Union's criteria are satisfactory, the Union brings them with multiple exceptions and small arrangements with a particular country, so that its list is pschitt: it is meaningless. What, then, will be in French law? The criteria of the European Union, strictly applied, or the list of the European Union? It's not the same thing at all! In the European Union list, there is no Bermuda, there is no Caymans, there is no Marshalls, there is no British Isles. If it's to do that, don't do anything! The Government's bill will address sanctions – that's a good thing – by proposing that they be graduated according to the shortcomings of the various States. It's a subject we're not talking about at all here. We will see how it will be dealt with in the government text. In our bill, we have simply added a section on sanctions for banks, in order to add them to the existing French sanctions, because – everyone agrees – banks do not have to move to well-known tax havens to make tax optimization schemes. Finally, some believe that the fight against tax havens should be carried out internationally; But when we place ourselves at the international level, Europe tells us, as Émilie Cariou rightly pointed out, that it is up to the states to take decisions. We'd have to agree! Mrs Louwagie, you said that it was at the international level that this fight had to be fought.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u24	I said it, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u25	Why, then, did your group vote against the tax COP proposal that we defended yesterday in the Senate, through my colleague Eric Bocquet? Yet it would be beneficial for countries to meet in an international conference of the parties on tax justice! When such initiatives are taken, you vote against, but when we try to act at the national level, you answer that we must do so at the international level! At this rate, we are not moving forward and, at this rate, tax havens are always ahead of us. It's all the difficulty of our fight. As Bastien Lachaud, Elsa Faucillon and Jean-Louis Bricout recalled, the amount of tax evasion is equivalent to that of our deficit. We have done a lot of pedagogy to show the progress that our law represents, the only one that makes it possible to bring money into the nation's budget. We've been criticized for presenting expensive texts, but this one's coming back! Why, then, do you reject him? He is not going to grapple with public finances, on the contrary: with him there is no deficit, and next year we will be wondering how to spend our money! It still changes the deal! [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] Take advantage of it, then; We, at least, don't let go. We'll fight to the end. As I said in the Finance Committee, I will be the Martin Fourcade of the fight against tax evasion: until the end, I will fight; He's gonna go home! He's gonna hit the nail!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u26	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u27	The Government intends to present a text before the end of the year, which will be based on the logic of the European list while retaining the benefits of the French list. Convergence with the European list is justified by the fact that the criteria we have negotiated at Union level seem strong and robust to us. Currently, the withdrawal of a country from the list is based on the commitments made by the State concerned, which are to be held by the end of the year. Thus, on that date, the actual application of the European criteria will be verified, without being satisfied with the commitments of the States. The European list, which we expect to update by the end of the year, should be solid and clearly meet the different criteria. That is why we hope for convergence between the French approach and the European list.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u28	[[Smile]] They're gonna be scared, tax havens!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u29	On the other hand, with regard to countermeasures, we will propose an approach based on those that currently exist, but graduated according to the answer to the various criteria. That of the effectiveness of the communication of information to the French administration must be included, which is not provided for in your bill. If our logics differ a little, our ambitions and objectives are shared. The articulation of the French list with the European list, the definition of criteria and sanctions seem to me to go in the same direction. In 2019, thanks to the list that will have been updated by the European Commission after verification of the actual application of the criteria, we will have a solid and comprehensive system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u30	Are you convinced, Mr. Roussel?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u31	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République group a motion for referral to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Romain Grau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u32	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Vice-President of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as provided for in Article 13 of the Declaration on the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, one of the foundations of our Republic, "For the maintenance of the public force, and for the expenditure of administration, a common contribution is indispensable: it must be equally distributed among all citizens, because of their faculties. This reminder of one of the founding principles of our Republic, which has structured tax law since 1789, is essential. Indeed, equality in the face of taxes, and more broadly in the face of public charges, is one of the pillars of living together in our Republic. But the very first impact of tax fraud, as other speakers have just said, is to break this republican pact, since the wanderings and wanderings of some fraudsters must be borne by serious and honest taxpayers. This is an injustice that we can no longer tolerate or tolerate, especially since tax fraud has taken a more dramatic turn in recent years, because the means available to fraudsters are much more sophisticated than in the past, involving opaque and little-known legal structures of French law, such as trusts or foundations, and because they operate in a much more internationalized context with the complicity of a few private or public actors. Remember that some states have played and still play on the vice of fraudsters, cultivating a protective tax and legal system for these white-collar thugs. In addition to this societal dimension, tax evasion is a major shortfall for our public finances. Of course, the figures are difficult to establish accurately, and evaluations vary according to the interlocutors. However, losses are estimated at between EUR 50 billion and EUR 100 billion for the French state budget alone. This loss of profits is all the more shocking given that, since the beginning of the legislature, we have been engaged in an effort to recover public finances and that we adopted last year for more than 11 billion euros of tax cuts, as well as a number of mechanisms, including the right to error allowing taxpayers – both businesses and individuals – in good faith not to be punished. The revelations of Paradise papers and other scandals involving the complicity of state networks and intermediaries have confirmed the extent of tax fraud and the troubled role of some actors. These revelations and scandals have also shown that the French no longer want to see any indulgence in these behaviors. In this context, it is necessary and legitimate for us to be untruthful about tax citizenship. Such a conviction is shared, as we have seen this evening, on all the benches of our assembly. Over the past 10 years, many initiatives have been taken to combat tax evasion. The reflection we are taking today is part of a land that has been ploughed many times, all majorities combined. In particular, mention should be made of the law of 6 December 2013 on the fight against tax fraud and major economic and financial crime or the Sapin 2 law of 2016. Our Assembly itself has adopted in the initial finance law for 2018, at the initiative of the group The Republic on the move, several measures on the subject, including the deprivation of civil, civil and family rights for those who have committed the most serious frauds. This leads us to the text we are considering tonight. Your bill has a considerable merit: that of reminding us of the cardinal importance of the fight against tax fraud. In this capacity, I also wanted to commend the rapporteur, Fabien Roussel, and the GDR Group for their work, which will certainly be useful in the coming weeks and will collectively help us in our legislative work on the subject. But this text cannot satisfy us, for reasons related both to its drafting and to the context in which it fits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u33	It's written wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u34	It's your collaborator's fault, Fabien!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, please! Please proceed, Mr. Gruau.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u36	Don't respond to leftist provocations!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u37	In other words, if there is no question of rejecting such a text, to the extent that it deals with a subject that we all consider fundamental and that it goes in the right direction, we cannot be content with adopting it as it stands. First of all, as Laurent Saint-Martin or Daniel Labaronne have pointed out, if we look at this text in detail, the criteria proposed in Article 1 e rde of the draft law to define the non-cooperative character of a State or territory are alternative, very broad or ambiguous and could affect many States. It would therefore be very difficult, as it stands, to apply the provisions of this bill, since they would lead to the addition of a very large number of countries – including many of our European partners – to the French list of tax havens, at the risk of cancelling the deterrent effect which must be caused by the inclusion of such a list for a State. These imperfections lead us to believe that it should be revised. A referral to the committee would undoubtedly make it possible to complete the text. Moreover, such an approach can only be carried out in connection with Community initiatives. We hear very well your remark that the Commission and the Member States tend to turn their attention to each other. It is not a question of pretending that the European Commission has jurisdiction, but of finding that we cannot work on tax fraud, which is by definition internationalized, without taking into account Community initiatives, unless we are autistic – which is not our case, I am sure. The Member States have just adopted with the Commission a European list of tax havens. Of course, it is perfectable. Of course, we will have to change national law to make it fully operational and, in a word, more effective. However, it would be a shame to move forward without taking into account joint efforts towards concerted action at European level. Beyond the issue of drafting this text and its European context, we believe it is important to include it in a more comprehensive and strategic plan to combat tax fraud. As practitioners have seen, efforts to combat tax fraud have had an impact; But today we need to change our minds by adopting a much more systemic and ambitious approach than has been the case in recent years. With regard to the suppression of tax fraud, we can no longer simply adapt our right to the margin; It must be reviewed and improved in all its aspects. We certainly need to talk about the list, but also about fiscal police and sanctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u38	This is not the purpose of the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u39	We can no longer simply do pointillism on the subject. At the national level, after ten years of initiatives taken at the rate of scandals, and most often in response to the publication of press articles, we now need a comprehensive plan that gives the initiative back to the public authorities. This plan will have to include a more relevant list of non-cooperative states – which, as you said, rapporteur, are all black holes in our international system – but also proportionate sanctions regimes, effective tools for tax investigation administrations and a restructuring of our institutions dealing with fiscal criminal law. The Government should therefore announce a comprehensive and coordinated plan of action against tax evasion by the end of the year. A full text should therefore be presented to Parliament in order to strengthen the anti-fraud arsenal. We can hope that it will provide for a revision of the French list in connection with the European list, the application of graduated sanctions, but also a readability that will enable us to display our collective determination to deal with this scourge. The same is true of the information mission carried out between our walls on the "Bercy lock". [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The ongoing work will address the issue of tax fraud and tax havens, not by one means, but by a comprehensive, articulated and balanced approach that will cover all aspects of tax fraud. We wish to see the results of this work and to work in an overall and ambitious logic. One of the key factors in the success of this work is undoubtedly the consideration of the work and reflections of each of us, in the interest of the upcoming legislative process. That is why, while fully endorsing the objective of this bill, we believe that the referral of this text to committee is the right decision, so that we can safely and effectively build the comprehensive and ambitious plan to combat the tax fraud that we so much need.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u40	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u41	From what I understand, you appreciate the principle of our text, which you have praised and even praised. You also found it balanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u42	But...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u43	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] But you send him back to the committee, where he comes from and where he could have already been discussed and reworked. Let me quote an old saying that is pronounced in patois at my house: "Caress' of quien, cha gives fleas. I would have preferred you to vote for this text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u44	Let us talk about it already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u45	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] ... rather than making such comments! But, as was said earlier, France must be at the forefront in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. I regret that you are making the choice to bury this text by sending it back to committee. You say no to a French list of tax havens, to a credible list; You say no to such a job. The thugs in Les Tontons gunners said, "Don't touch the grisbi! " They won again, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u46	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the kisses of the death of 8 March, I will make an explanation in five points. The first point is that a great deal has been done about tax evasion, but the most important thing remains to be done. It is felt that legislators still lag behind tax fraudsters and escapes and that it takes years to get a step forward. Secondly, a requirement: send a strong political signal in the fight against tax evasion. Last night, unfortunately, honourable senators rejected our colleague Eric Bocquet's motion for a resolution to make our country the initiator of a major tax COP at the United Nations level. Today, should this proposal for a law against tax havens have the same fate? Thirdly, a method: in the Committee on Finance, rapporteur Roussel has taken into account certain amendments which have been discussed there; Even today, he is ready to change the text as part of the discussion on the articles. In view of the work done in committee – its report will be a landmark! – as amendments proposed today, any referral to committee will appear incomprehensible. The fourth point, the context: the ongoing institutional reform requires proof that the legislative power is believed, that parliamentary democracy is possible. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Finally, the fifth point is obvious: this text must be voted on. You are all saying that it has positive points, that there is a lot to do and that a bill is in preparation. This text would be the first stone of this project, of which it is complementary; This would be a first step forward, and we are ready to go further with you, in the name of national interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u48	I call Mr Saïd Ahamada to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u49	That has been said in this House, tax fraud costs the European Union EUR 1000 billion. But it is not so much this figure that worries me – the cost could be 10 euros, but it would be the same – that the fact that natural and legal persons arrogate the right to circumvent the law to escape tax – the law that we voted for, we parliamentarians, representatives of the French people...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u50	...and you're going to strengthen tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u51	[[Protests on the benches of the GDR group]] That is what we need to work on: what is at stake today is not so much the amount of tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u52	Oh, yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u53	...that the weakening of our institutions. Consent to tax and the acceptability of tax depend on respect for the law by all. However, I call for efficiency: although I welcome the spirit of this bill, let us not forget that a bill on the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is in preparation. I hope that all politicians, both executive and legislative, will have a strong message: that of saying no to tax evasion and evasion. We will be heard if we speak with one voice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u54	That's why we're here tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u55	It's an opportunity or not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u56	Come on, start!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u57	This is the condition that businesses and individuals should no longer be encouraged to tax fraud. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Rires on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I call for the bill to be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u58	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u59	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u60	First of all, I want to reassure Mrs Cariou, who was worried about my delay: despite a setback that I would have done well, I am very happy to participate in this debate. I regret this motion for referral back to committee, which comes at a time when all the Members of the ERM Group who spoke in the rostrum welcomed the work of Mr Fabien Roussel and the GDR Group. They did not deny the problems and agreed that improvements should be made. Yet you refuse the debate. The Government could have proposed to develop and improve the text; Indeed, Madam Secretary of State, you already seem to have specific ideas about the scheme you want to propose at the end of the year, since you have set out a few lines of action. You could have taken advantage of this bill to give initial guidance. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] Finally, the Government and the majority reject the debate, while we all agree on the need to combat tax evasion and avoidance. I very much hope that the action of the Government will have as much impact as that of Eric Woerth and the Fillon Government, which have contributed to the lifting of bank secrecy. Finally, I would like to congratulate Mr Fabien Roussel and the GDR Group on their important and constructive work in committee. The LR Group will not vote on the motion for dismissal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u61	[[Smile]] If you want to take a card from the PCF, I have one on me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u62	Thank you, but I'm very good at The Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u63	On the motion for referral back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u64	Mr rapporteur, we have started working together in committee and you have even agreed to adopt some of our amendments; Thank you. However, I will be very honest: we have tried to reflect on the criteria – a delicate question – but despite all our efforts, we have not succeeded. The will to amend your text was present, because that is how we must work: by testing the texts. But we have not been able to table amendments because we have not found enough elements – impact studies, evaluations – to find the right balance. We have not given it up for lack of will, but for lack of resources. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mr rapporteur, my group will vote for the referral back to committee, but it will do so in order to be able to work on the criteria. I sincerely believe that if we are to find a balance in this area, your proposal will, as you yourself say, be the cornerstone of the future law, an indispensable basis for stinging the Government when it submits its bill on sanctions. These are necessary and I would be proud if France were to be a leader in Europe in the fight against tax havens. We need to make it possible because our country has a responsibility to take on this adership in Europe. I therefore give you an appointment in committee to continue working on the subject, and I count on the assistance of the Government to have sufficient hindrance, evaluation and impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u65	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u66	[[Smile]] [[Same movements]] Madam President, Minister, Vice-President of the Committee, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate Fabien Roussel, aka Martin Fourcade, on his willingness and pedagogy to take a new step in the fight against tax fraud. And when he expresses himself in ch'ti, it's even better! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] When we see what fiscal fraud means in budgetary terms – 60 to 80 billion euros – and what it means in terms of tax acceptance, we urgently need to take action. As I said in my speech in general discussion, this bill represents a real step forward in the fight against tax havens. It is renovating them by improving the criteria for identifying tax havens on the basis of those adopted by the European Union. It unheard of involving Parliament in the definition of tax havens and forbids banking institutions to intervene. As you can see, this text contains interesting provisions and the referral to committee is not justified, since the adoption of amendments by the rapporteur, one of which was tabled by the NG Group, might have made it possible to further improve its drafting. It is regrettable that the "new world" systematically rejects all relevant opposition initiatives. Old reflexes definitely have hard skin! The NG Group will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u67	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u68	Even if this has been said, let us recall: for more than fifteen years, from the Clearstream affair to the LuxLeaks, Panama paper and Paradise paper, the need to wage a free fight against tax havens is obvious for all those who have the real will to fight the scourge of tax evasion, a crime of national dissoludation that costs France between 60 and 80 billion euros every year. This bill would give Members that we are the power to control the publication of the French list of tax havens and to compel the executive to justify the entry and exit of states from that list. The FI Group supports this proposal, and has already tabled a number of similar amendments to this text, which the Government and your majority have each referred to a hypothetical bill that is still being discussed today. But these arguments leave us puzzled; Tonight again, the explanations are confusing. Why postpone what we could and should do today? Is tax evasion not a sufficient urgency, or even greater than that which, in your view, justified by an order, in an accelerated procedure, the reform of the Labour Code? We therefore propose this again: let us debate, amend and adopt together this text of common sense which, in addition to providing us with new parliamentary control tools, would send a salutary signal to our fellow citizens about the determination of national representation to really fight against tax evasion. This would also provide an impetus at international and European level. There is no contradiction here: taking initiatives at the national level gives credibility to bring them, then, to the international level. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I have no doubt about the laudable intentions that have been put forward throughout this debate. I cannot believe that this is your part of the political calculations that would be to keep the monopoly of parliamentary initiative – while opposition groups have so few – in order to benefit from a law whose content falls short of what would have to be, or even to prevent any progress on the subject. The FI Group therefore calls on you to vote against this motion for referral to committee and to assume our responsibility: to adopt this first law against tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u69	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u70	Well, I don't thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u71	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to lay down the conditions for its further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u72	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Stéphane Peu, Mr Hubert Wulfranc and others to combat sleep merchants (No. 587, 678).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u73	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to apologize to Mr Lescure, chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, who has been detained abroad. I greet Mrs Beaudoin-Hubiere, Vice-President of the Committee, who is replacing him in the sitting. I would also like to thank the Minister for Territorial Cohesion for his presence at the end of the day. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We discuss, between dog and wolf, the major issue of sleep merchants. Yes, wolves have been entering Paris for a long time. The phenomenon is well identified, it is proven; It develops exponentially not only in Paris, by the way, but also in the province, in various and varied forms. He is also criminally qualified. In the course of our work in committee, this diagnosis reached consensus. With this text, which is on the agenda reserved for the GDR Group's initiative, we propose several objectives, several targets, in a non-exhaustive way. It is an appeal bill whose elements are intended to join the debate on the bill on housing development and digital development, known as ELAN. We will oppose this debate, Minister, and it will not be a surprise! However, the project will include an unworthy habitat component that we can and must agree on. What are the directions of this bill? It aims first of all to establish a single authority exercising the unworthy housing police at the level of public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI. Okay, but it'll be a long time, since any transfer of jurisdiction involves a prior time for conciliation and exchange. It will be necessary to examine, on both the communal and the state sides, how to ensure, under the best possible conditions, this major transfer of powers. The ELAN Bill also provides for the empowerment of mayors in the event of an emergency. OK, but mayors should be able to act from the moment people are confronted with indecent housing, which is the "antechamber of hell," as your services have indicated, minister, with a strengthened prevention system. It also aims to strengthen sanctions for sleep merchants. Okay. Our bill also seeks to strengthen them, and in its consideration in committee, a number of our colleagues have proposed others. It's urgent. Anyway, the planets are aligning. I would point out that this bill would not, as it stands, have any budgetary implications. On the contrary, it would make important savings: how much public money has been wasted to repair the consequences of this disastrous phenomenon, which persists in Clichy, Grigny, Saint-Denis, Marseille, Lille...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u75	Denain!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u76	To Rouen! Dieppe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u77	Yes, a lot of public money is wasted, without repairing all the material damage – and especially the human damage – caused by these sleep merchants. We propose to give density, thickness, but also responsiveness, to this public salvation enterprise. By referral to committee? Well, we are in the process, with all our colleagues, especially the majority, to give you the opportunity and the time to deepen the aspect of the ELAN bill dedicated to combating unworthy habitat. And why not, even, devote a full text to this question? You said in committee, Mr.Nogal, that the relevant measures in this bill could be incorporated into Bill ELAN. Mrs Dubos, you want to "strengthen the detection of sleep merchants": I refer you to section 3 of this bill. Deepen up, work! Minister, your Secretary of State, Julien Denormandie, says he wants to punish these "criminals" – that's the word he used –: deepen, rework! Mrs Dubos, I refer you to Article 1. You have indicated that you want to dismantle networks of sleep merchants: deepen, work! Mrs Dubos, Mr Nogal, I refer you to Article 4. You said that your ambition is reasoned: that the accommodation be as comfortable as possible: deepen, rework! Mr Nogal, I refer you to Article 5. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, as well as on some benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I stress that we must work quickly: the victims demand it, and the local elected representatives urge you to do so – first and foremost, Mr Klein, President of the National Agency for Urban Renewal and Mayor of Clichy, the successor of our colleague François Pupponi, whom I thank for his presence. Finally, your comments are binding on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u78	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u79	[["That's right! » on the benches of the GDR group]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after this brilliant speech, I would first like to welcome the Communist Group for this initiative. I know and respect the convictions of its members. I have noted their willingness to be a force of proposal. It is evident from this perspective that this bill was introduced: you yourself, Mr.Wulfranc, referred to it as a "call" text. I can hear it that way: it's a good thing. The issue that you are addressing in this text is important and worrying. In many communes, in fact, there are serious problems of public order and respect for our fellow citizens. We must note that, for many years, the evil caused by the so-called "sleep merchants" has not been adequately addressed, despite the efforts made by successive governments – I am thinking of the Act of 25 March 2009 to mobilise housing and the fight against exclusion, known as the MOLLE Act, the Act of 24 March 2014 on access to housing and a renovated urban planning, known as the ALUR Act, and the Act of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition. Unfortunately, these successive texts have failed to eradicate this problem. It is, it must be said, very delicate from a legal point of view: we must be careful to comply with the constitutional requirements relating to respect for property rights. However, we still need to act. We have examined your proposals, Mr. Rapporteur; I'm going to go around with you now. You have rightly pointed out that this debate is, in a way, just a test gallop with a view to the consideration of Bill ELAN. You then made it clear that in this debate we would probably disagree. But we are in democracy, and the confrontation of ideas must result in the improvement of the law. On this issue, a broad gathering is possible, as your debates in committee have shown. Many parliamentarians are aware of the problem, the tragedies it produces, and the injustice of seeing people who are unscrupulous or unscrupulous continue to enjoy the misery of others. It is therefore up to us to try to find suitable solutions to improve the situation, failing to solve the problem completely – because we are well aware of the difficulties of this type of case. As I have said, despite the progress made, the policies pursued so far have unfortunately failed to completely eradicate the scourge of those so-called "sleep merchants", that is, people who specialize in the exploitation of poverty, human distress, by officially or informally renting unworthy, unhealthy housing, where vulnerable people live, in great difficulty. You see, like many of your colleagues, especially in those sectors where the demand for housing is the highest, unfortunately, that those who use these methods do so without shame, practicing the cutting of dwellings – more and more often, even in pavilions – to make them places of overcrowding. The phenomenon was rightly noted in the report of the Fondation Abbé Pierre. It's a reality. It is now estimated that some 200000 housing units are involved, which leads to the taking of 3,000 health-related decrees every year. However, repression, which is essential in this area, remains very inadequate, since it is the statistical reality that fewer than 100 people are sentenced each year, and prison sentences are very rare. You recalled, Mr rapporteur, the judgment of 7 February of the Paris Court of Appeal. It is quite exemplary since, returning to a judgment of relaxation, he imposed a sentence of two years' imprisonment and 500,000 euros of fine on these offenders, with very interesting recitals. But it is true that such decisions are rare, too rare. Such a finding is not tolerable and demonstrates that the progress made in the fight against unworthy habitat, notably by the ALUR Act in 2014, is insufficient. I share this view with all of you, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the proactive attitude that drives the rapporteur and the purpose of the bill. That is why the Government has taken the decision to include in the draft ELAN bill, currently under consideration by the Council of State and to be presented to the Council of Ministers in early April, measures to strengthen the fight against this exploitation of human distress. I would like to introduce them briefly, knowing that this is a working basis which will be the subject of debate here and will give rise to amendments. I hope that we will make useful progress on a subject that the authors of the bill have somewhat isolated from the broader set of contents of the text in preparation. First, the detection of this unacceptable phenomenon needs to be improved, because in order to combat a phenomenon, it needs to be targeted. The low number of convictions is due to the fact that it is an illegal and hidden activity. Local and regional authorities must therefore be supported in their task of detection. To this end, they must put in place services to combat sleep merchants, and we will propose that the periodic payments paid by them contribute to the financing of these services by being paid directly to local authorities rather than to ANAH – the National Agency for Habitat Improvement – as is currently the case. In the field of repression, the ELAN Bill contains an extremely strong measure to facilitate convictions: we will propose that sleep merchants be assimilated to other offenders who commit crimes and earn income from them, such as drug dealers, arms dealers or counterfeits. Thus, when these owners are criminally prosecuted for the rental of unhealthy housing, they will be presumed by the tax administration to have collected taxable income from this offence. It will therefore be up to them, and it is a reversal of the burden of proof, to demonstrate that they have not received such resources; Otherwise, they will be fined a great deal. Furthermore, we will also systematize the administrative penalties created by the ALUR law and broaden its scope. These periodic penalty payments are designed to put pressure on thug owners so that they can carry out the work prescribed by the decrees of insanity as soon as possible. Finally, the Government will propose to simplify the mechanisms for combating unworthy housing by promoting the consolidation of competences and procedures in order to make public action in this area more efficient. The fight against unworthy habitat and the exploitation of human distress will not be forgotten in this bill, because I share the will of the sponsors of the bill that you have introduced, rapporteur. In order to coordinate our efforts and facilitate the adoption of a comprehensive and effective mechanism against sleep merchants, we can work together – I know I can count on you – in the course of the debate on the ELAN bill, to improve the proposals that are already included in it, and I believe we will do so: I am thinking, for example, of the proposal of Member Stéphane Few to allow the authority – the state or a community – that pursues a sleep merchant to recover the housing aid suspended in the event of a non-decency of housing when the ex officio work is carried out. It goes in the right direction and I think we can make it a useful part of the project with some editorial changes. I must also admit to the authors of this bill that several points seem to me to pose difficulties, not substantive ones – we have already discussed them – but legal ones, some of the proposed measures may even prove counterproductive. Thus, it does not seem appropriate to me, given the need to maintain the overall consistency of the supplementary penalties, in particular the scale of those penalties, to increase the duration of the ban on the purchase of immovable property from five years – an additional penalty provided for by the ALUR Act – to ten years. In fact, the supplementary penalties for conduct punishable by the Criminal Code are provided for a maximum period of ten years in respect of only the most serious offences and crimes. We're not in such a situation. And then, as you know, I was elected local as many of you and, in charge of urban planning and housing issues, I often wondered when I saw declarations of intention to alienate: "But who is the buyer? "
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u80	Yes, often we too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u81	That makes sense. In fact, it is not forbidden to mention it on the document, but as it is not an obligation, the local elected ones that we are often called the notary to try to find out. However, the right of preemption must allow development operations, it is not intended to give its owner a right of control over the identity of the buyer. In addition, the measure of making the sale by tender of a building subject to an order of insanity or danger to the carrying out of work seems inadequate to me to the extent that this measure already exists: the purchaser of such property is obliged to carry out this work before renting it under penalty of penal sanctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u82	It's theoretical!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u83	The decision of 7 February 2018 illustrates the objective that we must achieve: the Court of Appeal issued important sanctions, but the local authority concerned, the City of Paris, had paid, as part of the expropriation, 6.7 million euros to the sentenced person. I will ask my services to reflect so that such a situation does not happen again because, of course, they have had a fine of 500,000 euros,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u84	And grabbing millions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u85	...but they're going to get compensation that doesn't seem fair to me. There is a legal problem and we must be able to move forward on this while respecting constitutional principles. I note from the bill, ladies and gentlemen, that it is moving in the right direction because it is helping to improve the situation. In the context of the ELAN bill, we will work together without a priori to fight more effectively against the scourge of sleep merchants, also knowing that to move forward, we must also build the maximum housing, including social housing – I have responsibility for it after other ministers, different sensitivities, who have had the burden of this issue. Because it is when there is pressure in the real estate sector that the kind of drift that we are talking about today is unfortunately facilitated. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] These are the observations I wanted to make. I have expressed myself by taking this text as an appeal text, but in a very positive way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u87	Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u88	In the general debate, Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u89	Madam President, Mr President, the rapporteur – my dear Hubert – and the Vice-President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, there are few convictions of sleep merchants in France, long procedures and often too light sentences. The last example you have just mentioned, Minister: just a month ago, a sleeper was sentenced in Paris, after seven long years of trial and a release at first instance; This gentleman rented up to 1000 euros per month of so-called 20-square-metre dwellings north of the capital to families; The damp walls, the radiators that detach themselves, the electricity that no longer works, the ceiling that falls... all this, the families piled up paid him at a price of gold, and for twenty-five years, this individual cashed annually the roundette sum of 350,000 euros of rent and the city hall of Paris, when it expropriated it as required by the law, made him a cheque of 6.7 million euros. It was largely enough to compensate for the 500,000 euros of damages and interest to which he was sentenced and pass the pill by a two-year suspended prison sentence. Despite this too slight punishment, the ten families who had endured all these years of proceedings embraced and congratulated themselves upon leaving the court. That is to say, it is difficult today to condemn this type of behaviour! Today, in a country that is the sixth largest power in the world, the twenty-third report of the Fondation Abbé Pierre on mal-housing refers to nearly 15 million people affected by the housing crisis, of whom 2.8 million live in very difficult conditions of comfort or suffer from overcrowding. I have already said it here and I will continue: housing must be declared a major national cause in France. In the face of this injustice, we cannot, in fact, content ourselves with the status quo by deploring the effects of the recession. While our country has, according to official figures, between 400,000 and 600,000 dwellings considered unworthy, the Communist deputies have therefore chosen to use their first parliamentary niche of the legislature to highlight the scandal of the sleep merchants – the expression is plural, from the owner barely aware of the illegality of his gesture to the multi-owner who made it a whole business and knows perfectly exploit the flaws of French law. It is estimated that one million people live in dwellings managed – or rather not managed – by such owners. There are, of course, means of action. The ALUR law of 2014, for example, has put in place some innovative provisions that we had at the time largely supported – we are also proposing to strengthen some of them. But when they are questioned about the subject, the magistrates or the police, not to mention the mayors or the associations concerned, we all encourage us to go in the direction of what this bill recommends. The measures currently in force are not sufficiently dissuasive in the face of this white-collar crime, which I often call criminal because in my city, in Saint-Denis, for fifteen years, the unhealthy habitat has been particularly deadly: more than thirty dead, including a dozen children. This crime is therefore not only "economic" or "truthful", but sometimes criminal! Sanctions should therefore be increased against persons who, not content with being dishonest, endanger the lives of others, sometimes even children. That is why we propose to double the duration of the penalty of prohibition on renting, provided for by the ALUR law and currently fixed at five years, because of its low coercive character. We also propose to make available to the communities or the state the recorded amounts of the personalized housing assistance – APL – when they carry out, for example, in lieu of the defaulting owner, work to restore to minimum standards or interventions on electricity grids or gas pipelines that are defective and therefore dangerous. There is also a clear link between the rate of delinquency, the increasing circulation of dirty money in certain cities – I am thinking of the Seine-Saint-Denis department, where the phenomenon is particularly important – linked for example to drug trafficking, and the rise of unsanitaryness in the face of housing shortages. These elements combine to make an extremely fertile soil for sleep merchants. Today, housing and commercial funds have become the first area of money laundering, according to Bobigny's prosecutor's office, which I interviewed on this subject. This is why the introduction of clarity and the prevention of identity concealment in real estate transactions – through civil real estate companies or other front companies – constitutes a public safety company. And that is exactly the purpose of this bill. Since auction sales are, as you know, the hunting grounds of sleep merchants, we also propose to better regulate these transactions by conditioning sales to the completion of the work prescribed in the decrees of unsafeness and peril, in order to prevent the development of unworthy habitat. I invite those of you who have the opportunity to visit Bobigny on a Wednesday afternoon. You can see that thirty to forty known and multi-recidivist sleep merchants share the auction sales organized by the public authorities in court.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u90	By ruining some of our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u91	This is an absolutely unbearable paradox. We also call for rehabilitation work to be carried out in accordance with certain standards of the new. There was much discussion about this proposal. It is obviously not a question of systematically applying all the standards of new housing to the old, which is not feasible, but of doing so on a case-by-case basis by allowing, on the advice of the departmental councils on the environment and health and technological risks – CODERST – to adopt more ambitious standards. It is absolutely essential to define standards that go beyond mere decency, especially in the increasingly frequent cases of pavilion divisions. As Hubert Wulfranc explained, this bill does not have the ambition to cover the whole issue. We do not have this claim because the subject is, as you know, so complex that a parliamentary niche would not be sufficient to deal with it. But the aim here is to give clear measures to the debate that remedy the main forms of circumvention of the law by sleep merchants, measures developed after consultation with the actors concerned in the territory. This is a public safety issue: that is why all parliamentary groups should seize these proposals. However, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, all the articles of our bill have been systematically rejected, without any real substantive debate and despite the fact that some of our proposals are widely supported or approved. "We are in favour of the measures you propose, but we are voting against your text because it does not come from the Government. Our group is well aware of the excuse of the parliamentary majority, since it has unfortunately supported it throughout this day when we examined all our proposals for legislation, both on equal pay for men and women and on the social recognition of carers, on free school transportation or on the French list of tax havens. And he had to undergo it in commission about the fight against the sleep merchants. The parliamentary majority tells us that our proposals are interesting, but at the same time it systematically opposes any solution that does not come from its ranks or from the Government. I do not hide from you that we find this concept of democracy and parliamentary debate rather bizarre. Yet, on a subject such as housing, despite the openings of the minister I greet – I greet the minister, but above all his openings (Sorry) – the government and the parliamentary majority would have everything to gain from the ideas of the other groups. For the time being, the housing policy pursued by the Government during its first months of existence is not really welcomed by all the actors in the sector – I believe that many of them are rather dubious. In addition, the ELAN bill does not, for the time being, make the fight against unsanitaryness a major issue – far from it. Our bill and this ELAN bill do not seem to me to be opposed, but rather complementary. That is why I invite you to discuss our proposals, and possibly to amend them. We hope that nothing is frozen in the marble. I have listened carefully to the openings that the Minister has just made in his speech. Rather than rejecting our proposals against sleep merchants, I therefore call on the parliamentary majority to support them, even if they are then included in the future bill or to amend them. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] Since we all share the same view, since the fight against sleep merchants must reach consensus on all the benches of our assembly, it is essential to send a strong signal and to vote broadly on these proposals. That is why Communist MEPs will obviously vote for stricter legislation against sleep merchants and support amendments from all sides which, in pursuit of the same objective, would improve the quality of our bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u92	Mr Richard Lioger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u93	Madam President, Minister, Vice-President of the Committee, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the GDR Group for having tabled the bill that we are debating. At the same time, our colleague Hubert Wulfranc said everything: it is an appeal text. I would even say that he saw a little bit of the branch we're sitting on with the ELAN law. You are right, Mr rapporteur: there is an urgent need to intervene in this area. The fight against sleep merchants is a dead end of housing policy, which concerns the most vulnerable families and people in our country. There is clearly a need for legislation. Since July, the Government has been working on an ambitious housing bill, the so-called ELAN Act, which was widely cited earlier. I would like to emphasize that this bill deals comprehensively with all the aspects and issues we are concerned about – and the minister recalled that earlier. This text is drawn up in consultation; its authors have the ambition to listen to the various actors in our country's housing. It has not escaped you that the consensus conference that took place for almost two months, at two meetings a week, under the auspices of the Speaker of the Senate and with the participation of a large number of senators and MPs that I would like to greet, was fed by proposals from the social donors, the association Right to Housing – DAL –, the unions of owners and tenants... All of them were able to make their voices heard, share their experiences and feelings with us, with a view to improving our legislation together. Political groups also participated, as well as associations of mayors, departments and all local elected representatives. We cannot therefore accuse this bill, which will be presented to us in May, after its adoption by the Council of Ministers – as the minister reminded us earlier – of being the fruit of the will of any Roman god or his emulations. As you will see, we all share the same conviction here: the fight against sleep merchants must be a priority. To carry out this global struggle, we will need all the tools available to us in the future bill. To the measures already mentioned, I would like to add the revitalization of the city centres, which has not yet been mentioned. Partnerships between the State and communities should help to stem housing degradation. You have mainly talked about peripheral cities in the Paris region or big cities, but you must not forget the medium towns. In a word as in a hundred, we want to put an end to the multiplication of unhealthy dwellings that make the honey of sleep merchants. Thus, the future bill will provide for an amendment to the Public Health Code, the Urban Planning Code and the Construction and Housing Code, which will make it possible to oblige the owners to renovate their homes, thanks to a system of periodic penalty payments and sometimes heavy fines that was presented earlier – in this we will strengthen the provisions of the ALUR law – before it changes, often irreversibly, into the category of unhealthy dwellings that are easy prey for sleep merchants. I am also thinking of the provisions of the future bill that will effectively combat the process of property degradation. It will be proposed to strengthen intervention tools such as pre-emption, the procedure of which will be simplified. In addition, the future bill will be committed to proposing solutions that promote access to housing for the poorest of our fellow citizens. This will go first of all through the Housing Plan, which will also prevent the increase in the number of people abused by sleep merchants. I would also like to welcome the tightening of the repressive arsenal provided for in this ELAN bill. Without going into detail, future articles 57 and 58 will propose a number of very coercive measures in this regard. You have understood this: we will propose that this bill be referred back to committee, not as an end to not receiving it or as a contempt for the measures contained therein, but as a strong element to be reworked, in line with all the subjects relating to urban planning and construction which I have briefly mentioned. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Mr Richard Lioger gives the rapporteur a paper plane]] In conclusion, Madam President, you will allow me a little fantasy. Unlike our rapporteur, I did not make pellets with the pages of my speech, but made a paper plane, which I intend to offer you, Mr Wulfranc, as a symbol of our will to go further in the fight against sleep merchants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you, for all useful purposes, that the production of various objects is not allowed during the debates in our Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u95	[[Smile]] You didn't stop Mr. Wulfranc from turning his text into meatballs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u96	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u97	Madam President, Mr President, the rapporteur, the vice-president of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, the last bill that we have to examine on this day's parliamentary niche aims to improve the legal arsenal to fight against sleep merchants, by strengthening the sanctions and obligations imposed on any owner whose leased property to others has been struck by an order of unsanitary or peril. The tools to combat what might be termed a "sleep merchant offence" are now largely jurisprudential. They result from the combined reading of the laws and regulations contained in the Penal Code, the Public Health Code, the Construction and Housing Code and even the Social Security Code. This week, in the Essonne department, where I am elected, a sleeper was sentenced to three years' suspended imprisonment, with a confiscation of his pavilion and a definitive ban on any activity of renting real estate and managing property, after exploiting the misery of a dozen families sentenced to live in situations of overoccupation and unsanitary in rooms of 10 square meters rented for 500 euros per month. The benches of the civil parties were, moreover, poorly stocked because the victims of these criminals, of these traffickers, are also victims of the mal-housing, of the tensions of the real estate market and of the saturation of the social park, never having the right employment contract or the salary three times higher than the rent allowing to register on a private rental route, being never in a good place in the pile when, full-time workers at SMIC or acting, they are told that they are not priority to the right to housing. Moistures, cockroaches, leaks, apparent electrical wires and other risks of electrical overload, lack of water or ventilation points:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u98	Lead paints!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u99	... here's the daily lot of homes that shouldn't be in it! We estimate that more than 600,000 people today live in these unworthy conditions, especially around Paris, in regional metropolises and in medium-sized cities. While the phenomenon particularly affected large degraded condominiums, it extended to less attractive pavilion areas, affected by the fragmentation of pavilions that became difficult to sell, these clandestine divisions being of course difficult to detect from outside. All the mayors and local elected representatives faced with this situation say so: this de facto densification, this uncontrolled concentration of social difficulty, these shelters of fortune which make that of owners without empathy are today all obstacles to the sustainable and solidarity development of the city. Over-occupation and the lack of accounting for certain dwellings lead to unscheduled over-consumption of public space and equipment; Wild parking invades pavilion areas, wild depots disrupt waste collection channels, communal centres for social action are overflowing and schools are crumbling. The subject is not new, but its resurgence is obvious. Our political group attaches particular importance to the fight against sleep merchants. As early as 2009, the Act of Mobilization for Housing and the Fight against Exclusion explicitly dealt with unworthy housing by giving it a precise definition. In 2010, our colleague Sébastien Huyghe proposed a law strengthening the powers of the mayor and the prefect, which also planned to subject the non-consenting owners to periodic penalty payments, by reallocating the sums collected to urban renewal. In 2014, the ALUR Act took up the ideas of this bill. In addition to the creation of periodic payments for funds for the ANAH, which we will discuss again because they are so little applied that it is appropriate to recall the importance of this, the law then prohibited any convicted sleeper from buying property, extended the right of preemption of the commune and placed the temporary accommodation of the occupants at the expense of the concerned owners. Despite these legal tools, we must move to a higher speed to bring our law into line and to provide the police with effective public safety capabilities. The ALUR law may have had great ambitions in this area, but it is clearly insufficient, as the enforcement of periodic penalty payments is not fast enough and systematic. It should be noted, however, that not everything will be settled by law, and that the means available to local authorities and the local State to identify, diagnose, identify, coerce, charge, defray or even condemn the different types of sleep merchants will be important. Behind this generic term of "sleeping merchant" are hidden from donors with different profiles, from the simple owner who can no longer cope with the charges of condominiums and works and lets himself go to the ease of overoccupation, to the multi-possessor whose income from the activity is undetectable, by way of the leader of the clandestine immigration channel. The objective of the text proposed to us tonight is commendable. Its examination, which will undoubtedly conclude with a block rejection by the majority, reluctant to accept the good ideas of others, will nevertheless be useful in fuelling our work and our debate on the next housing law. The political unanimity that seems to surround the fight against sleep merchants, which we have already seen in committee, shows that it is not necessarily necessary to be in the same party in order to agree. Nevertheless, the bill addresses only part of the problem. Like you, Mr rapporteur, I want us to fight first against the individuals who engage in this practice and who too often remain unpunished. That is why the law should first provide for the creation of the very crime of a sleep merchant. A bill which I drafted on this subject and which I have taken from it a few amendments was in that direction. Despite the approval of the rapporteur in committee, my amendment to create this preliminary definition of a sleep merchant, which would have usefully enriched the GDR Group's proposal for a law, was not accepted, and I regret this hindrance to a text of general interest. The Government and its majority want to wait for the housing bill. All right! But it will have to address all aspects of the problem. The competent mayors or intercommunal presidents must have sufficient means to avoid the proliferation of unworthy habitat. This requires a tightening of the urban planning rules, particularly for the pavilion divisions which must be treated in the same way as the files for the extension of the living areas. It is also necessary to consider another lease permit, which is a mere declaration within the areas of supervision deliberated by the local authorities: the lease permit does not take into account the quality of the dwelling, but only that of the lessor, and it will be necessary to put an end to this blind angle of the ALUR law. We must also make the sanctions provided for in the ALUR law more harsh and effective for convicted sleep merchants. The prohibition on the purchase and exploitation of real property must become systematic and the duration must be extended in case of recidivism. Finally, it is necessary to go beyond the strict framework of the law in order to effectively enforce the law on the ground. The structure of State services could be structured around a representative dedicated to the fight against unworthy housing, on the same model as the prefect delegated to equal opportunities, in departments with a high proportion of degraded housing. Local authorities, and in particular municipalities, must be accompanied in the professionalisation of services to combat unhealthy housing. Community technical teams often lack training and do not always have a command of the legal framework. The technocratisation of interventions, which combines local authorities, regional health agencies and prefectures, is also a very serious obstacle to the proper application of the law. Unique, identified and trained referents are therefore indispensable. For all these reasons, we approach the discussion of this text with great interest, since Republicans everywhere in France have the desire to fight against mal-housing and to help those who are excluded from the rental routes to live with their families in dignity. The majority would grow, after a day of discussion of less consensual texts, to accept that the parliamentary initiative could sometimes exceed the centralizing and sometimes hegemonic pace of the Government. This bill also opens up the topic of housing more broadly. Housing policy cannot be simply a supply shock, whether at the level of Greater Paris or elsewhere in the country. Building housing without thinking about public facilities, transport networks, balanced development of the territory, and monopolizing the few land available for an easy customer base, also means taking the risk of increasing the number of poorly-housed people, who will not be able to access housing at excessive selling or rental prices. The Housing Act should refer to the inhabitants and not to the dwellings, and it should take into account social and technological innovations, which make housing life stages rather than fixed values. This is also what will make tomorrow a more modern, accessible and humane housing stock.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u100	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u101	Madam President, Mr Minister, Madam Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, I welcome with great interest the work of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, which we discussed with particular attention two weeks ago in the Committee on Economic Affairs. In particular, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Hubert Wulfranc, for the quality of the hearings he conducted, in which I participated in part.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u102	And dumplings he made!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u103	Sleep merchants operate in an illegal economy based on the exploitation of poverty, thereby undermining human dignity. This situation is a major issue, since the stock of unworthy private housing in France would be estimated at more than 400,000 housing units. In addition, despite the 40 billion euros of annual public expenditure on housing policy, our country still has 4 million poor housing units, 4 million people living in unhealthy housing, or who are not sure they can pay their rent at the end of the month. I therefore fully understand the concerns of the author of this bill, Mr Stéphane Peu, because, elected from Île-de-France, he is directly confronted with the 180,000 unworthy private dwellings that exist in this region. However, this problem is not only unique to Île-de-France, or to urban or peri-urban areas, as it also affects many rural communities and communities. Indeed, in our constituencies, we have all gathered testimony about this human misery. This is the case, for example, in my constituency, in Toulouse itself, and in the municipalities of the periphery. It is not Mickaël Nogal, elected from the Haute-Garonne and Toulouse, who will say the opposite. I have deliberately used the expression "human misery", because we must bear in mind that they are people who find themselves stuck in divided pavilions, in unhealthy buildings or premises, in ruins, or sometimes even in attices, cellars or basements. These situations are, first of all, humanly dangerous and costly for our society. But above all, they are simply unacceptable in the homeland of human and citizen rights, which is also the fifth world economic power and European engine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u104	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u105	The fight against unworthy housing and sleep merchants must be a priority of our housing policy. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement therefore understands the spirit of this bill. Each of our compatriots must be able to have decent housing adapted to his or her needs, in the place of his or her choice. It is a fundamental rule of our life in society, because everything is built from housing: research and development in employment, meeting others, or social integration. However, in order to effectively combat the unworthy habitat and the sleepers, this bill is incomplete and sometimes candid, as I told you in committee, Mr Wulfranc. It is incomplete, because it does not speak, for example, of the tools for detecting sleep merchants to be set up. It is candid, especially when it asks for the disclosure of the identity of the signatory of a promise to purchase, whereas this document can be quite concluded with a third of the trust of the final purchaser, without the knowledge of its identity. These crucial issues are also part of the third pillar of the Government's "Housing" strategy, which aims to renew our housing policy and improve the living environment of the French. Minister Jacques Mézard and Secretary of State Julien Denormandie detailed the main issues during the presentation of their plan to combat sleep merchants last December. The aim is to facilitate and facilitate the consolidation of competences relating to unworthy housing in public institutions of intercommunal cooperation, and to simplify procedures for combating unsanitaryness and Saturnism. Indeed, in many territories, the inter-municipal level is most likely to be designated as the sole authority for the exercise of all special policies to combat unworthy habitat. These communities must therefore be accompanied to create services to combat unworthy housing, services capable of dealing with immediate emergencies and enforcing sanctions. While it is important to strengthen sanctions, they should first be able to be implemented, which is far from the case at present. This applicability of sanctions can only result from improved governance. It is only then that we will have to move on to the next stage and strengthen sanctions against sleep merchants. This will include the establishment of a presumption of income arising from the provision of unworthy housing. This presumption of income will be similar to what is practised in the case of drug trafficking or counterfeiting. This will allow justice and the tax administration to assume that sleepers have collected money from the illegal rental of their unhealthy housing, thus reversing the burden of proof. Pursuing and effectively sanctioning sleep merchants will create a virtuous circle of resorption of unworthy habitat. The strengthening of unworthy housing policies will be financed through the provision of periodic payments by sleep merchants to the budget of the affected communities. On the other hand, the procedures for combating unworthy habitat and sleep merchants are currently far too numerous and too complex. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement believes that it is now time to simplify them. We must, for example, allow emergency treatment, by giving mayors and presidents of intercommunality the opportunity to recover from the owner the costs incurred in dealing with the situation. We must also simplify planning procedures and shorten deadlines, for example by making the opinions of the architects of the buildings in France strictly advisory for operations to combat unworthy housing. However, beyond these sometimes extremely technical measures, I would like to defend here on behalf of my group a comprehensive response to this social and societal issue. It is indeed necessary to tackle the sleep market directly, but also to renovate the centres of the medium-sized cities, because we all know that the inadequate supply of housing causes vacancy there and favours the development of unworthy housing there. It was in this context of a comprehensive response that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement proposed, during the week of control, a debate on spatial planning and the revitalization of city centres and town centres. Revitalisation operations must implement a comprehensive project in each territory. This project must adapt and modernise the housing stock and the urban fabric, to give it more attractiveness and to combat the vacancy of houses and shops, and against unworthy housing. This will enhance the value of built heritage and address the challenges of sustainable development and innovation in the trade and craft sectors. Finally, in order to speed up the renovation, construction, rehabilitation and upgrading of the housing stock in the centres of medium-sized cities, we must mobilize exceptional resources. To that end, we must step up the efforts and services of Action Logement, the National Housing Agency and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. These agencies are essential to finance engineering services, invest in equity in real estate projects, or provide loans to support public property institutions and communities. As part of this comprehensive response, I would like to recall last December's establishment of the consensus conference on housing by Minister Jacques Mézard and Secretary of State Julien Denormandie. I participated on behalf of my group, along with my colleague Jean-Noël Barrot. This broad conference has made significant progress, particularly in the fight against unworthy housing and sleep merchants, by bringing together all the stakeholders represented. It turns out that the future bill on housing, development and digital development emerged from this consensus conference on housing. It will therefore be the best legislative vehicle to stem the inequalities noted by our colleagues, to protect the most fragile and those who need them most, and to improve the living conditions of the French. I am sure that this bill will address these issues all the more as the bill being considered this evening deals only partially with the subject matter. It forgets certain aspects, such as the means and coordination of public and private actors involved in this struggle. It forgets the improvement of the filing system or the prohibition for bad payers to accumulate property. She forgets that it is not likely to want to identify the true purchaser of a property at the time of signing the reservation protocol. To address these gaps and adapt existing tools, it is therefore appropriate to take part in the review of the ELAN bill in the coming months. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will be particularly active during the debates on this future bill, so that it is ambitious and provides concrete and operational solutions to fight the unworthy habitat and the sleepers. We will also pay attention to the rapid, orderly and effective implementation of these measures, so that they can be implemented as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Consequently, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not support the GDR Group's proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u106	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u107	Madam President, Mr Minister, Madam Vice-President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, last month, an owner of Rue Marx-Dormoy, in the 8th arrondissement of Paris, was sentenced, for making accommodation contrary to human dignity, to two years' suspended imprisonment, 500,000 euros in fine and the definitive ban on the occupation of lodger. Why did this condemnation legitimately generate so many reactions, emotions and press articles? No doubt because it seems to us collectively inconceivable that, in 2018, families with children are buried in dwellings less than 20 square meters without heating, without electricity to safety standards and with water infiltrations, for exorbitant rents. How many times have I received in my permanence, like many of you, families who have come to show us pictures or their dwellings? We're ashamed! The vivacity of the reactions to this condemnation is also due to the fact that we cannot imagine that, in our capital, Paris, and in our country, France, can still prosper this type of human trafficking, which affects the most vulnerable and vulnerable populations. It is about the exploitation of human beings, a violation of dignity and, let us say clearly, a mafia system. In addition, this sleep merchant had been relaxed in the first instance and was visibly passed every time through the drops despite forty-four unsanitary orders against this building. The population was deeply shocked. By its severity, the judgment of the Paris Court of Appeal must be a landmark. There are still few convictions of this type. This has been said: according to the Government, only 80 to 90 sleep merchants are condemned each year, while the unsanitary dwellings still number hundreds of thousands. Beyond this, sleep merchants continue to rage. Ile-de-France is particularly affected by the phenomenon: the region estimates the number of unworthy dwellings at 180,000. This figure is to be compared with the 200000 dwellings, at national level, announced by Secretary of State Julien Denormandie. The Île-de-France region presented several proposals last December. She pointed out that condominiums were not the only ones involved: the phenomenon also affected the flag areas. I'm not saying that the government has done nothing in years. In Paris, as mayor, Bertrand Delanoë, for example, carried out a proactive action to combat unhealthy housing. The national representation also did not remain inactive and in particular strengthened arrangements under the ALUR law: progressivity and modulation of the administrative penalty, with a ceiling of up to EUR 1000 per day of delay in the event of work required; the preservation of housing allowances by organizations in the event of indecent housing and the conditioning of their restitution for work; the permit to divide; the declaration of lease; the authorization to rent; the extension of the supplementary penalty, with the prohibition of buying for five years; the additional penalty of confiscation of usufruct, returned to the benefit of the Agence nationale de l'habitat, a device resulting from an amendment by Jean-Christophe Lagarde. However, our group is convinced that it is necessary to go further: the inventiveness of sleep merchants in order to escape the sanctions and to continue their activity is unfortunately without limit. We need to adapt our judicial and legislative response. I believe that this is shared by all groups and by the Government. The future ELAN bill should, in fact, create a presumption of income attributable to sleep merchants. Justice will thus assume that they have collected money from the illegal rental of their unhealthy housing. It will then be up to the sleeper to prove that he did not perceive such resources. Indeed, it is essential to hit hard the sleep merchants on the wallet. I also welcome the Government's willingness to support communities to strengthen services to combat unworthy housing. It is a necessity to increase the effectiveness of our fight. I can therefore hear the argument put forward in committee by the majority that we should wait for the housing bill. However, the Members of my group consider that this bill by our colleagues in the GDR Group has the virtue of preparing the ground and opening an important debate, because there are probably other measures that would deserve to be added to the future chapter on combating unworthy housing. Even in this proposal for a law, a number of avenues seem interesting: the possibility given to the State or the community to recover the suspended allowances, rather than to leave them to the family allowance funds; the conditionality of the sale by invitation to tender for work; the application of new construction standards for the work required as a result of an unsanitary order. On the other hand, mention the name of the proposed purchaser on the declaration of intent to dispose of it, of course, of a good intention, but could have perverse effects. In addition, the implementation of the ban on buying by notaries is relatively recent; Its effectiveness should therefore be assessed first. In any event, the general spirit of this text is coherent: the fight against sleep merchants must be reinforced, not only downstream, by the sanctions I mentioned earlier, but also upstream of the purchasing acts. The ALUR law already applied this philosophy: both to tighten sanctions and to prevent this illegal trade. You have to hit the wallet, but also on the built heritage. Therefore, why not bring these measures against unworthy habitat together within the framework of the ELAN bill, and complement them, to propose a legislative package, if possible once and for all? In this package, the systematic penalty of confiscation of property could usefully be added. It already exists in other European countries. We are in favour of this, and I believe it is a shared position on several benches. That is precisely the subject of the amendment that I tabled with my colleagues in the UDI-Agir Group. When the minister draws a parallel between sleepers and drug traffickers, he sees it right. More than that, our severity must be total against people who exploit human misery. Today, in the face of the migration crisis that we are experiencing, and that will be lasting, the risk that the business of sleep merchants will grow is real. The men, women and children who arrive in our cities, in the famous Marx-Dormoy street of the 18th district I mentioned earlier, are in distress and are easy prey for these traffickers. They are often delivered to smugglers and mafia systems. At the end of the chain is the lodger without faith or law. It is therefore a phenomenon that requires an effective, precise and adapted response. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, even if this bill is not the preferred legislative vehicle, we see this debate as a useful first contribution to an effective legislative arsenal, which we will have to build together in the coming months. I thank the rapporteur and his group for initiating the debate, and I would like the Government to take into account the positions of the various political groups on this subject in its initiatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u108	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u109	Madam President, Minister, Vice-President of the Committee, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in the exercise of our parliamentary mandate, there is no shortage of requests, in any case for those of us who are on the ground. These demands are diverse, but one area appears to be particularly concerned with requests: housing. Increasingly, we are confronted with fellow citizens who, in their homes, are exposed to situations of indecency and unsanitaryness caused by indelicate donors or even unscrupulous sleep merchants. France has between 400,000 and 600,000 dwellings considered unworthy, old, unsanitary, overoccupied, or underheated. In total, nearly 1 million people live there, or more precisely, survive there. To finish convincing yourself of this, simply type "sleep merchants" in a search engine and consult the news that scrolls: Paris, Lourdes, Tarbes, to mention only the results of the first page. My group will support this bill and thank the GDR Group and its rapporteur for this initiative, of which I hope it will not remain a mere projector. As I said in committee, the method of sleep merchants is unfortunately not an exclusive of tense or urban sectors. In our rural areas and in the heart of our small towns where the habitat is embedded, sometimes without yard or garage, this one is devalued. Thus, it becomes the prey of indelicate donors concerned with a rapid return on investment, with, in the background, the recovery of personalized aids to housing. The mayors in charge of the checks, of which I was a member, since I had to carry out about a hundred of them, are confronted with unbearable situations. I would also like to make it clear that housing control is most often carried out in relation to the departmental health regulations. However, the reading grid is not always the same as that of social organizations assigned by the FCA, which is sometimes problematic. Beyond this, I would like to point out that we are not leaving anything and that this bill is all the more welcome as it would supplement, if voted, the sanctions already provided for against these sleep merchants: five years' imprisonment and 150000 euros' fine. However, very few sentences were handed down – the ones mentioned were almost in favour of sleep merchants. The ALUR Act of 24 March 2014 also strengthened the tools to combat unworthy housing: recording of housing subsidies, additional penalty for prohibiting the purchase of property, confiscation of usufruct, administrative penalties, panel of criminal penalties. It has, above all, made it possible to act, upstream, in the territories most affected by these practices, thanks to the prior authorization to rent and the prior authorization of the works leading to the creation of several residential premises in a building. In a few moments, my colleague François Pupponi will come back to the problem of condominiums. For my part, I conclude by presenting the meaning of an amendment that we would have liked to have discussed. It aims to allow the recording of the rent if the work is not done, in order to stop the logic of the merchants by typing where it hurts: their wallet. As for the mayor's police powers, which are central to the fight against homelessness, they are too limited. He may order work on the basis of a finding of insecurity or unsanitary housing, but he cannot order work to combat thermal coffers, because he cannot rely on the diagnosis of energy performance, which is not legally enforceable: it is not qualitative enough for some, whereas it is mandatory for rental. Yet, due to a lack of investment in energy performance, these indelicate donors put many tenants in a situation of economic insecurity. In view of the review of the future ELAN bill, it seems to me necessary for us to find a legal way to regulate the fixed costs of housing, by linking the amount of rent to its energy performance. I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention, Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] I can only hope that our colleagues in the majority can have a flash of lucidity, in response to the calvary that strikes many of our fellow citizens. That would be very much to your credit, colleagues in the La République Group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u110	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u111	Madam President, Mr Minister, Madam Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill presented by the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has the merit of placing at the heart of our debates one of the scourges resulting from the housing crisis. Here we are discussing sleep merchants, who exploit human misery by renting unworthy housing at a gold price, most often to our most vulnerable fellow citizens. Current legislation, including the ALUR Act of 24 March 2014 and the Act of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth, provides a significant basis for the fight against sleep merchants. I will also refer to the case of the Parisian sleeper who was sentenced to 500,000 euros in fine and two years' suspended imprisonment. The judicial procedure lasted seven years and involved about ten families, supported by two associations, the Fondation Abbé-Pierre and the Action Logement Committee of the 18th arrondissement of Paris, whose work I would like to pay tribute to. This sentence seems severe, if not exemplary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u112	Severe?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u113	However, as you pointed out, Minister, what is 500000 euros compared to the 350000 euros of annual income earned for twenty-five years, to which was added in March 2014 an allowance of 6.7 million euros, i.e. ten times the purchase price of the property in 1989? Is it normal that the City of Paris had to buy this building so that it would then be destroyed and replaced by social housing? This example is emblematic. It shows how much it is necessary to legislate in order to consolidate existing tools. It is important to stem the phenomenon of sleep merchants, which Mr Denormandie himself described as a scourge. He recalled that more and more people specialize in the business of misery and that, while 3,000 unsanitary orders are issued each year, only eighty to ninety sleep merchants are finally condemned. He finally mentioned a new plan against these thug owners, which will be part of the housing bill. That is precisely the purpose of the bill. It provides for the strengthening of the provision of the ALUR Act, which stipulates that the subjection of a person whose vulnerability or state of dependence is apparent or known to the perpetrator is punishable by a ban on the purchase of real estate for a period of not more than five years. Article 1 of the draft law provides for a doubling of this period to 10 years. You objected, Minister, that a sentence of such length is reserved for the punishment of a crime and not for an offence. However, as the rapporteur has pointed out, there are sometimes deaths. These people are therefore criminals and could be punished for a period of ten years. The current legislation also provides that if a dwelling does not meet the minimum conditions of dignity at the end of the deadline for compliance, housing assistance is no longer paid to the owner and the rent is reduced accordingly. However, as far as tenants' living conditions are concerned, as long as work is not done, they may pay less for their accommodation, but their living conditions are not improved. Consequently, article 2 of the text provides for the payment of the amount of housing assistance to the State or local authorities responsible for carrying out the necessary work. With regard to works, article 4 makes the sale of unsanitary immovable property conditional on an obligation to renovate, the absence of which would lead to the cancellation of the sale, which seems to be striking at the corner of common sense. The proposed law also improves the means of research and action of local authorities against sleep merchants. Article 3, if voted, would make it possible to know the name of a purchaser and whether he is already known or condemned as a sleeper. The text also provides for a 50% reduction in the market value of a property owned by an expropriated sleeper. In this case, the sleep merchant mentioned earlier would still have obtained more than 3.5 million euros, which would not be so bad if I believe Mr Denormandie's statement that sleep merchants should be treated as traffickers. In this regard, if we debate the bill just now, we will be able to determine whether it goes far enough. You said, Minister, that you are looking for a solution so that such situations do not happen again. We therefore expect you to make a proposal in the context of the consideration of the future housing bill. Thus, it is a clear and balanced text, which makes it possible to take an important step in the fight for decent housing for all. The bill is therefore in the right direction and we support it. During our debates in committee, some Members of the Group of the Republic on the move, as well as you, Minister, have explained that it is not necessary to adopt the bill, since the future housing law must provide solutions to the problem. However, the four articles on this subject in the draft bill published on December 18, 2017 are not sufficiently specific. We hope that the means to combat sleep merchants will be further clarified in the bill if the bill is not adopted in an adventurous manner, which I doubt, given its relevance! Moreover, the draft law does not further strengthen the power of information and action of the municipalities. Yet they are at the forefront of the fight against sleep merchants. I would also like to reflect on the role of the National Assembly. Even though the Government is preparing a bill, such as a bill on housing, majority members of parliament should not skew the initiative of opposition deputies. In previous legislatures, it seems to me that the opposition bills were debated, even if they were not finally adopted. If this seems to you to be in the same direction as the Government's draft, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, why not debate it? It also opens a more general debate on the housing situation in our country, characterized by a lack of housing. The housing crisis is a reality that affects one Frenchman in six. The latest report of the Fondation Abbé-Pierre shows that 4 million people are poorly housed and 12 million are affected by housing insecurity. Every year, almost 2 million housing requests in HLM remain unanswered. In this context, the lack of housing, including social housing, encourages our fellow citizens to seek solutions in the private rental stock. These are usually people in precarious situations, such as single mothers, students or undocumented workers. The sleep merchants take advantage of it to enrich themselves by renting unhealthy housing at exorbitant prices. The phenomenon of sleep merchants is the direct consequence of a system characterized by scarcity and speculation. If the housing crisis is not limited to the problem of sleep merchants, it is nevertheless necessary to tackle it firmly. It is not enough to be indignant: the proposal of our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left offers an opportunity to debate and work together in order to build a real response to unacceptable situations of insecurity. Housing is a right. It is necessary to make access to housing a priority, so that it does not only favour the enrichment of a few. We believe that the avenues announced by the Government will only worsen the housing situation in France. They provide for more market and more speculation, less rights and less social housing! The State can be a formidable tool for reviving construction and guaranteeing the right to housing. However, the Government seems to be making the opposite bet, leaving the market with the freedom to speculate. The role of the State is not that of an economic adviser who would suspect demands to the ears of the market, as Emmanuel Macron did by proceeding with the decline of the APLs. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In conclusion, the members of the La France group support the bill, which goes in the right direction and contains points of convergence with our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u114	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u115	Madam President, Minister, Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 December last, during a visit to Val-d'Oise, the Secretary of State for the Cohesion of the Territories, Julien Denormandie, said that "sleep merchants will be treated as traffickers". This political will is not new and is based on a number of tools, which have been significantly strengthened in recent years. However, there are still gaps and gaps. In our country, in 2018, we are still exploiting the misery and distress of some of the most fragile and vulnerable people in order to house them in indecent and unhealthy conditions. These sleep merchants target populations in great precariousness and in a situation of legal weakness. They sometimes, and often, dispense with the establishment of a lease or a state-of-the-art procedure and promise their future tenants to carry out work in the near future. These tenants, who are often in distress, are victims of this situation. It is difficult to make them aware that the treatment they are undergoing is illegal and that they must alert the authorities. The tension of the market and the saturation of the social park leave no other choice for people who are experiencing increasing difficulties and who are excluded from the traditional housing market, than to occupy unworthy housing, which benefits indelicate owners or genuine sleep merchants. Who, in his constituency, has not noticed situations of indecency and unsanitaryness caused by indelicate donors or even by sleep merchants? And because: France has between 400,000 and 600,000 dwellings considered unworthy, old, unhealthy, overoccupied or underheated! Nearly 1 million people live there, or more precisely, survive there. In Seine-Saint-Denis, rooms of 20 m2 are rented for a monthly rent ranging from 800 to 1000 euros. Pavilions are regularly bought and then cut to be rented room by room, when it is not beds that are rented. However, there are measures, such as the lease permit provided for by the ALUR Act of 24 March 2014, whose implementing decree was not published until the end of 2016. It allows mayors to check the condition of the dwellings before any rental operation. Some are already making good use of it, notably in Blanc-Mesnil, in Seine-Saint-Denis, where the mayor launched last November a poster campaign as part of the operation "Squire your sleep merchant". In Clichy-sous-Bois, where I have been elected since 1995, the municipality will put in place a lease permit on April 1. Thus, any private owner planning to carry out work to create housing premises will have to obtain the prior agreement of the municipality. More than 200 municipalities have already set up services to combat unworthy housing. The ALUR Act has also strengthened the tools for combating unworthy housing such as the recording of housing subsidies, the supplementary penalty for prohibiting the purchase of property, the confiscation of usufruct, the administrative penalty system and a panel of criminal penalties. It also provides for penalties for sleep merchants up to five years' imprisonment and a fine of EUR 150000. Unfortunately, in practice, many are not convicted because they organize their insolvency in order not to pay the fine. As a result, too few sentences are handed down: 3000 unsanitary orders are issued each year, but less than 100 sleep merchants are finally condemned! In fact, despite cooperation between police officers, associations and housing units in municipalities or regions, the prosecutor's office sometimes has difficulties in gathering sufficient evidence. Despite this array of legislative provisions, the problem persists or worsens. It is therefore necessary to go further and complete this legislative arsenal. It is essential that the law be more precise, particularly with regard to energy insecurity. The diagnosis of energy performance should be made more effective, in particular from a legal point of view. Not only must sleepers be hit on the wallet, so that they cannot circumvent sanctions, but also restrict their ability to buy or retain real estate used for this unhealthy trade. In order to ensure that the notary verifies the criminal record of the prospective purchaser, whether convicted or not for having been a sleep merchant, it might be useful, for example, to make the production of a criminal record extract mandatory in the context of a real estate acquisition. Similarly, the law could make the production of the K bis extract specifying the names of the members of the K bis extract mandatory in the event of the acquisition of real estate by an SCI. Indeed, many indelicate owners hide in SCIs and their names remain unknown to the authorities in the absence of production of the K bis extract. It would also be appropriate to provide for measures to protect the rights of victims of sleep merchants and to relocate them. Many other ideas and measures could also be put forward or studied, but it would be too long to draw up an exhaustive list here. In any case, the debate on the bill shows that everyone here on all benches is convinced that we need to strengthen the tools to fight against sleep merchants. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The Government will provide us with an opportunity very soon to fill the gaps and adapt the existing tools. That is why I invite all parliamentarians who wish to do so to take part in the process that the Government took the lead in the development of the ELAN bill. We need to combine our strengths and skills so that it is as ambitious as possible in the fight against sleep merchants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u116	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u117	Madam President, Minister, Vice-President of the Committee, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a scandal in our country, where sleep merchants exploit human misery with impunity. But there is another, perhaps more serious one: France has not been able, for so many years, to eradicate this phenomenon that everyone knows. We have all tried to do so, within the framework of the ALUR law and its predecessors. The legal arsenal is important – too, perhaps – and very complex – too, certainly. From unsanitary and unworthy habitat, we have developed definitions that are sometimes very complex in their implementation. Determining the text of a sleep merchant is of terrible complexity. You wanted – as you said, Minister – to tackle this terrible phenomenon. But we must welcome the initiative of our colleagues in the GDR Group, who have tabled this text and placed it on the agenda, to fight against sleep merchants without waiting until the end of 2018. They were right, and I think we should go to the end of this debate. Mr Minister, if you consider that the proposals of our colleagues are in the right direction, then we must vote on them this evening; If you want to postpone the discussion for several months, then at the very least you have to give us precise answers: will the proposals of our colleagues in the GDR Group, which seem to have the agreement of all those present tonight, be accepted in your text? It does not seem to me to be a good policy to postpone this debate, I repeat; But we would like at least to be certain that the Government will support the introduction by amendment of the four articles of the bill, all of which are in the right direction – which are common sense. We all agree to fight against sleep merchants; But we will also have to fight another phenomenon. These sleep merchants earn a lot of money, and with this money earned illegally – Stéphane Little said – they go to court and buy houses sold by the courts. Our justice is complicit! These "on the stand" sales are a scandal. How many people have we seen in our offices who tell us that they have bought accommodation for 150000 euros, that they have not been able to repay the loan, that they owe 120000 euros to the bank... Their housing is now worth 200000 euros, but instead of selling 120000 euros, which would allow them to pay off their loan and get out of debt, justice gives it to sleep merchants for 20,000 euros! The indebted person will pay his entire life a credit contracted for an apartment that he no longer has – and all this so that a sleeper gets it back for a derisory sum and earns in three, four or five months the 20,000 euros invested! And the municipality can no longer preempt after the auction. People are thus ruined by a court decision – because their housing is largely worth what they still owe to the bank. It would be sufficient for the law to provide that the sale must be made at a level that allows at least to repay the bank. Well, no! Every day, justice, and beyond all of us, who are all stakeholders in this system, sells these homes to sleepers. It's just a scandal! Sleep merchants can thus launder illegally earned money by legally buying houses for ridiculous sums, then renting them very expensive – this is the private park. And they will no longer be caught up with the patrol, since they will have ceased to be sleep merchants. They will legally earn their living, after ruining honest citizens with the complicity of justice. That, Minister, is another scandal that we can no longer accept! We have failed on this front – and if there are so many Members on the move, and so few Members of the New Left, it is good that we have not been competent, that we have not been good. We all agree to say that. But try to be better than us! In your text, Minister, you do not attack this scandal. We have tried, I assure you; and if we have not succeeded, it is because your administration defends a sacrosanct principle: property. The right to property is sacred in France. First, the owner is protected before the tenant is protected. Hear us, minister; learn from our failures. Several of us in the previous legislature wanted to change the situation. We have achieved this only very partially, because the administration often opposes legislative changes. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] Again, hear us on this point, Minister; We are ready to take part in your action, but if we now vote on the GDR text, it would be a strong message to the sleepers, but also to the honest citizens who are often the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u118	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u119	Madam President, Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of housing, and in particular of sleep merchants, is sensitive, as it is present in our territories. The figures speak for themselves: 4 million people remain poorly housed or deprived of their homes, while 12 million see their situation weakened by the housing crisis. It is in this context that the deputies of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left submit their bill to us. I must say that it is interesting, on the one hand, because it wants to tackle unhealthy conditions and, on the other hand, because, in its own way, it gives itself the means to do so, particularly in Article 4. But is that relevant? Is that enough? The Government also seized the subject last December. On a visit to Goussainville in Val-d'Oise, Julien Denormandie unveiled a plan to fight against sleep merchants. The terms used were carefully chosen for the occasion: termed "criminals" in the same way as drug traffickers or arms dealers, sleep merchants had to be hunted mercilessly. Here again the means used are intended to be percussive. In particular, the scope of Article 1649 quater-0 B bis of the General Tax Code should be extended, and the presumption of income should now also apply to sleep merchants. This is a reversal of the burden of proof: it will be for the sleep merchants to prove that they are not. This measure is indeed more than welcome to fight effectively against those who prosper over the misery of others. But, beyond these announcements, why not simply apply the existing law? For you are not unaware that when a prefect signs an unsanitary order on a dwelling, criminal and administrative sanctions are provided. They are not symbolic, since a sleeper is theoretically liable to five years' imprisonment and a fine of EUR 150000. In fact, the problem is elsewhere. Orders are issued but, in most cases, they are not enforced: tenants are in a weak situation and justice is overwhelmed. Thus, if 3,000 orders of unsanitaryity are signed, only eighty to ninety sleep merchants are condemned. This impunity is an encouragement to fraud. Unfortunately, the bill discussed today does not offer any more effective solutions: to solve a substantive issue, you tackle extreme, marginal cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u120	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u121	Anyway, you're giving yourself a good conscience. The truth is, things are more complicated. The great sleep merchants, the real traffickers, those who make this activity a profession, those who trade with misery, are just a handful. They are rife in Paris and in the Paris region. But elsewhere, this question is marginal: unsanitaryness is a problem, it is true, but the real problem is indecency. That's the reality of people. However, if there are no miracle solutions, concrete tools can be put in place. For example, in Béziers, the commune and the family allowance fund work hand in hand, and have introduced a system that punishes those whom I call sleep merchants at a small week. And it works! The scheme addressed 205 indecent housing units, 92 of which were brought into compliance and 98 of which were suspended. You want to hit the sleepers at the purse? Here's a way. Let's start this way! Another: why not harden the issue of lease permits by extending them to not only unhealthy but also indecent dwellings? Whether these authorizations are given by the agglomeration or the town hall, the mesh must be tightened locally around those who abuse the misery of others. In Béziers always, a perimeter has been defined in agreement with the agglomeration: 300 to 400 dwellings will be visited each year. Here's something concrete. Let me end up with some kind of flat. While some owners may prove to be sinister sleep merchants, they are not all, it must be said again, even if it is obvious, sourfins. And while tenants are sometimes victims of housing negriers, others are real wounds for those who rent them a dwelling. Everyone knows that the world doesn't agree with black and white. On the other hand, if there is a certainty, it is that, in this area as in so many others, we must give more power to our mayors, who are the ones who know best the realities of the field. As always, we must decentralize for more fairness and efficiency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u122	You've held a little more than four minutes, it's progressing, but it's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mr Mickaël Nogal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u124	Madam President, Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Hubert Wulfranc, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us, on this day for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, a proposal for a law to combat sleep merchants. In France, the number of unworthy dwellings is estimated to be 420000, i.e. dwellings that expose their occupants "to obvious risks that may affect their physical safety or health", according to the law. Nearly 52 per cent of these dwellings are owned by private landlords, some of whom form a rental stock and thus a substantial financial loot. These sleep merchants, who benefit from the fragility of vulnerable or dependent people, must be severely punished. They are criminals – and I weigh my words – who must be fought with the utmost firmness. I believe that we all share this in this House, and I would like to thank the GDR Group for putting this issue on the agenda. We cannot collectively satisfy ourselves with the solutions that our texts currently offer. Despite the progress made by the Act on Access to Housing and Renovated Urban Planning, the ALUR Act, and the existence of criminal and administrative sanctions, just under 100 convictions are handed down each year. In 2015, eighty-three convictions of natural persons were handed down, but only nine prison sentences were handed down, of which two were prison sentences. This situation of impunity is intolerable. The proposal for a law tabled by the GDR Group aims to strengthen these sanctions in order to combat this scourge more effectively and, once again, this is something that we agree with. We had the opportunity to repeat this during its consideration in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 20 February: the fight against unworthy housing and sleep merchants must be one of our priorities. But while the La République en marche welcomes the initiative to place this topic at the heart of the debate – and I want to welcome here Mr Stéphane Peu, with whom I am pleased to co-chair the housing study group – this debate is intended to continue in the context of the bill on housing, development and digital development. Article 1 of the GDR Group's proposal for a law aims, for example, to extend from five to ten years the prohibition period for the purchase of property provided for in Article 77 of the ALUR Act. Although the intention is commendable, I doubt that this prolongation is sufficiently dissuasive. That is precisely our objective: to find measures that are binding enough to put a definitive end to this ignominy. Colleagues, after an unprecedented process of consultation, the consensus conference, involving stakeholders, local elected representatives and parliamentarians, we now have a solid housing bill with the ÉLAN bill. Following the presentation of the Government's housing strategy in September by Messrs. Jacques Mézard and Julien Denormandie, the members of the majority are proud to have contributed to this new stage in the consultation – a consultation that we are continuing, particularly with the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Here I want to reassure our opposition colleagues: the fight against sleep merchants has not been forgotten, on the contrary! The ELAN Bill thus includes a chapter entitled "Combating Unworthy Habitat and Sleeping Merchants", which has three objectives: to strengthen and simplify the establishment of a single authority, exercising all the special policies to combat unworthy habitat at the level of public institutions for intercommunal cooperation; simplify the numerous procedures for combating unworthy housing, and allow for urgent treatment, by giving the mayor the opportunity to recover the costs incurred for the treatment of the situation from the owner; Finally, strengthen sanctions against sleep merchants. This last point has already been discussed at length. It is on this last point, which forms clause 56 of Bill ELAN, that I want to insist on before you. Sleep merchants only function at the lure of gain, like drug traffickers: we must consider them at the same level as drug traffickers, and that is why, in the general tax code, alongside drug traffickers, arms or narcotics, we will add sleep traffickers. They will thus be affected by the presumption of income. Persons subject to criminal proceedings in respect of unworthy housing would thus be presumed to have received a taxable income equal to the market value of the property made available to the sheltered persons or the sums of money derived directly from the offence, i.e. the rents collected. This presumption may allow a strong action by the tax administration, since it is associated with a high fine and a reversal of the burden of proof for the benefit of the administration. Sleep merchants, whose main motivation is economic, will therefore be obliged to go to the cash register. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As you will understand, the Republic on the move will not support this bill, not because of lack of determination but because the fight against this scourge requires a more appropriate, comprehensive and stronger response. That is what we will do through the ELAN bill that will be submitted to national representation in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u125	Mrs Claire O'Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u126	First of all, I thank Stéphane Peu and Hubert Wulfranc for this legislative initiative which allows us to question the effectiveness of positive law in the fight against sleep merchants. Last month, the Paris Court of Appeal imposed unprecedented sanctions on a sleeper who had rented sixty and one unhealthy apartments in the 18th arrondissement. This judgment should not, however, hold us back, because it was motivated by particularly heinous facts. Yes, we must intensify the repression against these traffickers of human misery. In its Article 2, the proposal for a law of our colleagues in the GDR Group gives the local authorities or the State the opportunity to recover housing aid to carry out ex officio work in housing. I think we need to take the time to reflect on how this measure is to be implemented. In fact, the occupants will not be able to stay in the housing because of the importance of the work. They will have to be resettled and will therefore need their housing assistance. They must no longer suffer the double penalty: living in unhealthy housing and undergoing work. It is imperative that they be resettled during the rehabilitation period. As for Article 3, it allows holders of the right of preemption – in particular the municipalities – to know the potential purchaser of the property. The owner shall be obliged to mention his identity on the prior declaration made by the owner, including in the event of an award. As much as I am in favour of identifying at an auction, because, as you point out in your bill, auctioning is the preferred ground for sleep merchants, so much the identification bothers me if it applies to all transactions that can usually give rise to the exercise of the right of preemption. I fully understand the will of the signatories to the bill. Nevertheless, let us imagine – even though I am well aware that this is not the usual practice of the communes – that this identity is used for purposes of discrimination, based on the ethnic origin, religion or socio-professional category of the purchaser... I cannot therefore be in favour of such an obligation which will affect the privacy of potential purchasers of real estate. As you know, the government approach that we support is a thematic and comprehensive approach that aims to reform our country by focusing on consultation. This dialogue resulted in the success of the consensus conference, which ended in early February after six months of discussion. That is why Bill ELAN, which builds on the conclusions of this conference and which will shortly be discussed in the Council of Ministers, provides, in its section devoted to improving the living environment, for an intensification of the fight against sleep merchants. Thus, as with pimps, a presumption of income will be introduced for the sleep merchants. This bill asks the right questions, but provides incomplete answers. The Members of the La République Group will therefore vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u127	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u128	I thank the Minister for his commitments. If Mr Pupponi has asked you to consolidate them, I consider them to be firm commitments on two points: the recovery of the APLs, in the event of a finding of indecency, by the mayors or the State to undertake emergency work, on the one hand; the revision of the expropriation compensation paid for unworthy or at risk property belonging to sleep merchants – in the example constantly cited, this compensation leads to indecent consequences. I have taken note of your intention to facilitate pre-emption by public authorities and, perhaps, to reconsider, in the opposite direction to that of our proposal, the declaration of intent to alienate. At this time, we believe that these are significant advances. A bill has a certain freshness, including at this time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u130	...or even a certain freshness, which can be described as candour. But this may ultimately be the political decision: to settle in the candour and let our collaborators – I would like to thank them before all our colleagues, as well as the public officials who accompany us in the preparation of our bills – to put these decisions into music. I thank all those of our colleagues who have been willing to look forward to their contributions, which we will endeavour to take back and defend in the course of our consideration of Bill ELAN.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u131	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u132	I welcome the quality of this debate. There is a broad consensus to improve a situation that everyone has described as difficult to bear. However, if we share the objectives, we must find the right ways to resolve the problem. After acknowledging that this had not been easy for the previous majority, Mr. Pupponi wished me good courage to do better...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u133	We're ready to help!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u134	I have no doubt about your ability to help, Mr. Pupponi. I would prefer that this ability be used to help me rather than to counteract the Government's plans. In your opinion, our administration, which is that of all the French, I would remind you, would be at the origin of the blockages because of too wide a respect for property law. But you cannot ignore the general principles of law – I am a lawyer like you – and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u135	And the declaration of human and citizen rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u136	I hope that what will be voted on by Parliament will be able to stand up to possible recourses through both parliamentary referral and priority issues of constitutionality. We must therefore find ways to achieve the objectives we pursue without danger. Mr rapporteur, with regard to expropriation – I have in my career as a lawyer often in the law of expropriation – it is not easy to remedy the difficulties that you and Mr Pupponi have raised. It has become a scourge in some places: sales place future former owners in even worse financial situations than before. I asked the department to work on a satisfactory legal solution so that it could be debated during the discussion of Bill ELAN. But, you know, it's not easy, otherwise it would have been done a long time ago. I make a commitment to work on it, but not to succeed. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] You referred to your proposal as a bill of appeal. That's how I take it. This evening's discussions have focused on real problems which we are going to try together to make improvements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u137	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République group a motion for referral to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Christelle Dubos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u138	I would like to thank you, Mr rapporteur, for drawing the attention of our House this evening to the phenomenon of sleep merchants. It's a serious matter. As a former social worker, I am particularly sensitive to this, but many of us have been confronted with such situations in our constituencies. The sleep merchants are these owners who exploit to the extreme the distress of the most vulnerable audiences. They maximize their income by leasing unmaintained or unmaintained property, often unworthy or unsanitary, and generally overoccupied. In France there are about 420,000 occupied dwellings considered potentially unworthy. In Île-de-France, last September, the Public Land Establishment listed approximately 180,000 private housing units that are potentially unworthy, representing almost 5% of private principal residences. But this is not only a Franciscan problem, but all the territories are facing it. In New Aquitaine, the potentially unworthy private park represented more than 7% of the principal residences, or more than 90,000 dwellings, of which more than 40% are located in my department of Gironde. Cities and intercommunalities are at the forefront of this problem, which covers different realities. In addition to indelicate or negligent owners, who are not attentive to the criteria of decency, whose property has deteriorated over time, they are confronted with real professional sleep merchants, organized, and running in several degraded condominiums. The variety of situations complicates the detection of this scourge, which continues to gangrene our country, despite the numerous advances of the ALUR law of 2014. In fact, communities have acquired the opportunity to check the quality of rented housing in their territory. In order to do so, they may define by deliberation the areas in which the leasing of property must be the subject of a declaration or prior authorization. A criminal sanction for prohibiting the purchase of real estate for five years has been created against convicted sleep merchants. An administrative penalty has been introduced to accompany the decrees of insanity or peril pronounced with the prescription of works. Up to EUR 1000 per day of delay and per decree, it ensures the follow-up of these orders and their binding nature. Finally, a single actor competent in the field of special police against unworthy housing has been appointed in the person of the President of the public institution of intercommunal cooperation – EPCI. However, these undeniable advances in collective housing have unfortunately had a negative impact on diffuse housing in more rural areas. Today, we see the growing deportment of sleep merchants to unhealthy pavilion divisions. In addition, despite the existence of criminal sanctions, fewer than 100 owners are sentenced each year. The administrative sanctions concern 3,000 unhealthy housing units per year, while the number is estimated at over 200000 in France. This situation of impunity is intolerable, and no one here can say that we must not act. This is by no means our point with this motion for referral to committee. Only if the bill raises good questions, it does not provide the most relevant answers. In substance, we question both the robustness and the applicability of the five articles that you propose to us. For example, you propose that we double, from five to ten years, the duration of the penalty for prohibiting the purchase of real estate provided for by the ALUR law. Beyond the difficulties this would pose with regard to the consistency of the supplementary penalties, this proposal is not based on any evaluation of the Act, which was enacted just four years ago – let's give it time to apply before returning to it. On the other hand, this proposal does not address the real problem, since, as I said, too few convictions are handed down; The priority is to develop the means to better identify and condemn more. You suggest that certain standards for new construction be applied for the rehabilitation of homes with a perilary or unhealthy order. However, we find it difficult to understand the purpose of this proposal, since these orders already involve the execution of the work necessary to comply with the rules of decency. It is unrealistic to impose the requirements of the new in the old park, which represents the vast majority of the park concerned. Introducing such an obligation would, at best, be counterproductive or, at worst, a complete blocking factor. Under no circumstances is it guaranteed to remedy the phenomenon of sleep merchants. You also propose to provide the community with the opportunity to recover the suspended housing assistance once ex officio work is done. This provision may be interesting, except that it seems to confuse unworthy habitat, which covers unsanitaryness and peril and which is the subject of your bill, and indecent housing. There is currently no ex officio work procedure in the case of dwellings which do not meet all the decency criteria. Therefore, while we welcome your commendable willingness to address this issue, we suggest that you, rather than proposing an ad hoc legislative vehicle, invest in the development of the future ELAN bill, on which discussions have been under way for several months. Your group took part and had the opportunity to enrich them if they felt that they were not provided enough. The majority is mobilized and determined to act effectively to combat unworthy habitat. Precisely because urgent action is needed, we believe it is necessary to propose an arsenal of comprehensive, lasting and relevant solutions to address this serious problem, in line with the expectations of all actors on the ground. The Government committed itself to this last December, and parliamentarians of the majority made the responsible choice to support this movement. We are working on this as part of the broad and exemplary consultation around the ELAN bill. Launched in September, this consultation brought together all the actors involved in housing: public housing offices, associations, public institutions and communities. The discussion continued at the consensus conference held in recent months, which enriched the Government's text. With regard to the fight against mal-housing and unworthy housing, concrete proposals have been made to concentrate action on degraded condominiums as a matter of priority. The text, which will be presented to the Council of Ministers next month, makes the fight against unworthy housing a real priority. This is addressed in the chapter "Combating Unworthy Habitat and Sleeping Merchants". As you have pointed out, Minister, the ambition of this chapter is to continue the work of bringing together, in the hands of the EPCIs, procedures and competences in the fight against unworthy habitat, in order to allow better treatment of these urgent issues. In this chapter, it is suggested that the administrative penalty system created by the ALUR Act should be extended: periodic penalty payments would now be possible within the framework of all special police procedures to combat unworthy housing, and not only in the case of work prescriptions, as is currently the case. At the same time, it is proposed to strengthen the capacity of the communities to act effectively on detection, in particular by allowing the EPCIs to now collect the amount of periodic payments made in addition to unsanitary orders. The aim is also to improve the treatment tools for degraded condominiums by simplifying their implementation and facilitating the rehousing of households in the context of requalifications. Finally, Bill ELAN proposes to introduce a presumption of income from the provision of unworthy housing, such as drug trafficking or counterfeiting. This reversal of the burden of proof will enable the tax administration and the judges to assume that the defendants have collected money from their illegal activity and to punish them accordingly. Currently, sleep merchants, who often have the means to afford themselves a very expensive defence, are too often able to seem insolvent. This provision will facilitate convictions and ensure the effectiveness of existing sanctions. I, for my part, have confidence in the deterrent effects of this increased financial pressure on these traffickers. Thus, Bill ELAN, which we will be looking at in the very near future, offers ambitious and precise solutions to the difficulties faced by those who fight daily against sleep merchants. We will have the opportunity to discuss it and amend it. That will be our responsibility. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the scourge of sleep merchants deeply undermines the lives of too many of our fellow citizens to receive a partial, risky or approximate response. The issue deserves time to discuss it further in the course of the upcoming review of Bill ELAN, rather than hastily passing a poorly adapted bill. That is precisely because I know that we are all measuring the seriousness of the problem that I am calling on you to vote on this motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u139	In the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee, Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq spoke for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u140	As 15 million people are affected by the housing crisis and 2.8 million of them are living in very difficult conditions of comfort and overcrowding, this last motion for referral to the committee of the day, which is certainly paved with good intentions, is, I dare say, disrespectful of the victims and promises still fine days to the sleep merchants. The current measures, as we have said, are not sufficiently dissuasive in the face of this often criminal crime. Despite the urgency, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are proposing an umpteenth motion to refer the matter back to committee. Therefore, despite your promises to strengthen the legislative arsenal in the near future, you allow these criminals to continue their unworthy trade in poverty. As you know, mal-housing kills dozens of people every year, and letting these individuals do so even one more day, is taking the risk of new dramas. You are promulgating a miraculous housing bill for the next few weeks. Of course we want to believe it, but, frankly, what is preventing you here tonight from starting to gain momentum? The excuse of the majority, we know it and regret it, of course: you oppose everything when the baby was not born in your ranks. It is a strange conception of democracy, it is a humiliation for the parliamentary opposition and, tonight, it is a dangerous attitude for the million men, women and children living in slums. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] You told us and repeated that the sections of our bill were relevant. Then let's amend them and vote them. They will thus constitute the parliamentary contribution to the next law. Isn't it you who talk about "co-construction"? I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u141	Mr Mickaël Nogal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u142	I would like to thank all the colleagues who stayed so late tonight to discuss this text. I again thank our colleagues from the Radical and Republican Left...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u143	[[Smile]] Calm down!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u144	...of the Democratic and Republican Left, please excuse me,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u145	Let's say "Communist deputies"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u146	... the Communist Members, indeed, who have done an important job, as the minister and many of us have pointed out. Part of the work was done: in committee, we expressed reservations about certain amendments and a constructive position on others, which were useful to the debate. We are, of course, ready to resume this work. I am personally committed to this, and I think that colleagues in my group will follow me on this point. Given the seriousness of the problem and the concerns that we all share, we will have to find ourselves on the corresponding provisions of Bill ELAN. I hope, moreover, that this will not be the only title or chapter of the text on which we can reach agreement. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] We will vote on this motion to refer to committee, but it is not a closed door, it is an open door to the ELAN bill. To give away the metaphor used earlier, let us continue our momentum. This parliamentary work is useful, and the French expect us to take a co-construction approach. If we can show them that Communist Members and Members of Parliament are on the move, that Members on all benches can work together on a subject of this nature, it will, I think, be a step forward for our Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u147	He's not a sleeper, he's the sandman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u148	The next speaker is Mr Robin Reda, for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u149	In principle, I would be pleased if we would again discuss this text in committee with a view to adding to it all the relevant proposals put forward by the speakers of the various groups, including a precise definition of the concept of a sleep merchant, the elements for making prevention before condemning individuals recognized as such, provisions strengthening repression, i.e. periodic penalty payments and the prohibition on the purchase of real estate. I would be in favour of referral back to committee if it were not for the Government a fairly obvious strategy to recover the good ideas in favour of a bill that we hear a lot about, but which will only be discussed in the National Assembly in several months' time. During this period, however, the victims of mal-housing will continue to suffer, and local elected officials will remain destitute in the face of the scourge of sleep merchants. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] A detailed examination of the proposals, both of the articles of the text and of the amendments which we tabled and which we were about to discuss together, would have been equally valid. It is therefore not appropriate to refer the text back to committee. On the contrary, consideration of this timely and quasi-ecumenical bill should be extended, in order to relay the words of all victims of housing maladministration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u150	On the motion for referral back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u151	We're not sleepy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u152	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u153	I thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left – or Communist – for being at the initiative of this bill. Even though I said earlier that it was incomplete and, at times, candid, it would in any case have shown that the groups in this House were all very sensitive to the problems of sleep merchants and found themselves on a number of points, on which we have only opened the debate, without closing it. It was observed, particularly during the examination of the text in committee, that certain points were not appropriate and that some topics needed to be reworked. But since you said that the bill was an appeal text, I will respond to your appeal. We will look at this again when we look at the ELAN bill. On this occasion, thanks to your bill, which has at least had the advantage of getting us to work upstream, we will be able to move forward faster. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Thus, in response to your call, the MODEM Group will vote on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u154	Mr François Pupponi, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u155	I hope that the French who follow our debates live or delayed will not be too many! Overall, we all agree that certain sections of the bill are moving in the right direction, that they are intelligent and will allow for a frontal attack on sleep merchants. I have not heard any objection in principle to the proposals made by our colleagues in the GDR Group. I thank the rapporteur for his work. Mr Wulfranc did indeed hold hearings. He made proposals. The commission worked. We are now in open session and I hear that the text is intelligent, that it is good, but that we will not vote on it. Do you realize what we're doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u156	It's been like this since this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u157	We know that this text is intelligent, that it is in the right direction, that it is not controversial. It reached consensus on a serious matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u158	It is the subject that is consensual, not the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u159	The articles generally reach consensus, but let's talk about it at least in the sitting! We have amended these articles. We can at the end vote or reject the text. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are told that these measures are smart, that they should be adopted but that we will not, and that we will perhaps talk about them in six months' time. I don't think that's a good way to make the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u160	It's the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u161	While we are told that Members do not have the means to work and that they need to be reduced, some of us have worked. They made proposals. We are here to adopt them, but we are told that this is not the time and that we will come back to them later. There's something to be embarrassed about! Of course, the NG Group will not vote on the motion for referral to committee. I repeat: let us pay attention to the image we send outside this chamber. Saying in favour of a text, but refusing to vote on it for the sole reason that it emanates from the opposition...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u162	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u163	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] ...does not seem to me to be a good practice in democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u164	It's their Stalinist side!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u165	Mr Bastien Lachaud, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of housing is absolutely crucial for every human being, for no one can live without wondering where he will sleep in the evening, whether he will find his affairs, whether his place of life is pleasant or disgusting and pathogenic. In our ridings, we are all seized daily by citizens who need housing, whether they do not have housing, whether they need to be accommodated by friends, or whether they have unhealthy, damp, mouldy, rat-infested housing. In my constituency in Aubervilliers, a collective of citizens has even launched an operation "Adopt a rat", in order to denounce the sweating of these rodents. People live in rats, not the other way around. Still others have a home, but as their families grow larger, it has become too small to accommodate the children properly, to provide them with enough space to thrive, play and enjoy life. These activities form the fabric of our lives. It's so hard to be deprived of it! Thousands of our fellow citizens do not have housing, live on the streets, die from it. However, when we are in this House, we should think about this bill on indecent housing and sleepers. We are all destitute when our fellow citizens come to our homes to ask for housing, because we do not have one: to give it to them is not our responsibility. On the other hand, we have the power to make the law, and today we have the opportunity to fight against sleep merchants and the proliferation of unhealthy housing, and to work for their rehabilitation. This is an emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We do not have time to ask ourselves whether the text comes from the opposition and whether it is better to wait for a government initiative to act. We don't have time to wait. That is why we will not vote on the motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u168	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u169	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to propose the conditions for further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-08-O1157.u170	Next sitting, Tuesday, 13 March, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Draft organic law on the organization of the consultation on the accession to the full sovereignty of New Caledonia. The meeting is adjourned.
