ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u1	The Parliament is convened in Congress in accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic published in the Official Gazette of 19 June 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u2	The next item is the statement by the President of the Republic pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. This statement will be followed by a debate. [[Mr. President of the Republic enters the Congress Chamber. – Mrs and Mr. Congressmen and members of the Government rise]] On 9 July, the anniversary of the day when, here in Versailles, in 1789, the National Assembly of the States General recognized itself as a constituent power, and on the eve of a major institutional reform, I invite the members of the Congress to welcome the President of the Republic. Mr President of the Republic, on behalf of the Congress of Parliament, I welcome you. Mr President of the Republic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u3	Mr.President of Congress, Mr.President of the Senate, Mr.Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I have not forgotten anything, nor have you, of the choice France made a year ago. On the one hand, all the temptations of closure and withdrawal; on the other, the republican promise. On the one hand, all the mirages of the backwards; of the other, eyes open, realism and hope assumed. I have not forgotten anything about the fears and angers accumulated for years that have led our country to this choice. They do not disappear in one day; They haven't disappeared in a year. I have not forgotten the fear of downgrading for myself and for his children; rage in the face of public impotence; the country that feels divided in two, not only between opposing parties but, even more serious, between its base and its so-called summit – at the base, women and men at work or who seek work without finding it, all those who find it difficult to close the end of the month, and, at the top, those who are in power, their so-called powerful discourses that never change anything, and to which, in addition, we do not understand anything –; the feeling of the citizen being ignored, despised and, above all, not seeing, not seeing, where we must and can go together; anger, finally, born of the end of collective ambitions as family and personal ambitions. I haven't forgotten anything about these angers or fears. Nothing! Fear also of the other, of the great changes, of the crash of the world: tensions with Iran, the trade war launched by the United States, the divisions of Europe. I haven't forgotten, I don't forget and I won't forget! That is why I present myself before you, in this annual meeting that I wanted, humble but resolved, carrying a mission of which I do not forget at any time that it commits the destiny of every Frenchman, of every Frenchman, and therefore the national destiny. Humble but solved, I said, and I'm going to give you a confidence. There is one thing that every President of the Republic knows: he knows that he cannot do everything, that he will not succeed everything. I confirm it to you, I know I can't do everything, I know I can't do everything, but my duty is never to resolve it, and to conduct this fight tirelessly! Every President of the Republic knows the doubt, of course, and I am no exception to the rule. But I have a duty not to let doubt distract my mind and my will. It is a function which, if realistic, brings to humility, O how much! but to humility for oneself, not to humility for France. For France and for his mission, the President of the Republic has a duty to aim high, and I have no intention of failing to do so. Of this national destiny, we are, you as parliamentarians, the Government, under the authority of the Prime Minister, I as President of the Republic, jointly charged. You're the national representative. It is a great task to represent the sovereign people, not just a people of producers and consumers, driven by economic and social expectations, not a people of citizens, women and men who want, with open eyes, to shape their collective destiny. During this year, Parliament has done a lot of work. The mission that the French assigned us a year ago, you never lost sight of it: to strengthen our economy, to define a just and equitable social model, in line with the aspirations of our century, to restore the authority of the State and to give it reactivity and efficiency, to revive Europe. You have, day after day, worked in this direction. You have worked urgently to turn the page on policies and blockages that have severely affected our country. Your action has enabled the investment to go back; the scandal of drawing lots at university entrance to end; the school to regain its place, and the transmission, its dignity; the fight against terrorism to be enshrined in our law, without resorting to the state of emergency; that work pays more; that France has a sincere, efficient and ambitious budget and returns to the 3% deficit. You have restored to France its military capabilities by a law of programming of a new and unprecedented ambition; you have lifted the labour market blockages created by a code that has become obsolete and inadequate; and you have saved our public transport service, SNCF, from a certain bankruptcy by an unprecedented reform. By doing so, you have shown that there is no fatality of sluggishness and failure, when there prevails an unwavering political will guided by the general interest. You have started construction projects of an unprecedented scale, including the construction of vocational training, apprenticeships and housing. On all these subjects, who can forget the situation in which the country was in a year ago? Who can forget that each of these reforms was deemed impossible a year ago? The institutional project has certainly been a little slow, but we assume this delay, which is due only to the deliberate choice to give priority to the daily lives of the French. The Prime Minister will present its content to the National Assembly tomorrow. I know all the work that has already been done in this House. [[Applause on many benches]] At the heart of this institutional reform is the desire for greater freedom: the freedom of local and regional authorities, who are called upon to make better use of their specific advantages, by allowing genuine differentiation; freedom of citizens, through independent justice; Parliament's freedom, which I want more representative of the French, renewed, with additional rights, driven by more effective debates. [[Applause on many benches]] I believe in bicameralism, which guarantees a more balanced democracy. Here I commend the work done this year by the Senate to ensure that the transformations undertaken are adopted quickly. It is therefore a reform of confidence, of strengthening national representation. The Parliament thus renovated will have the power to conduct more constructive exchanges with the Government, because the spirit of dialogue and listening is essential to us. It was that spirit that presided over all your debates and work during the session that had just concluded. I very much thank Prime Minister Édouard Philippe and his government for their tireless consultation, discussion and exchange in carrying out the necessary transformations in the country. I hear that the commitment I made to the French, to come every year to report to the national representative on the mandate they have given me, may upset some. But the reproach is strange, which makes me complain to respect my commitments and the terms of the Constitution! [[Prolonged applause on many benches]] The 2008 revision allowed the Congress in its current form, and I understand that the worst criticism, often by ease, is being made of this procedure. That is why I have asked the Government to table an amendment to the constitutional bill this week, which will allow me to stay in the next Congress not only to listen to you, but to be able to answer you. Yes, the past year will have been the year of the commitments made. What we have said, we have done, in dialogue, by accepting disagreements, but often also in national unity. Who, too, would have bet it a year ago? This will for action was at the heart of our promise: the French saw the first fruits at school, on their payroll, on the labour market... But these are only the first fruits. I am fully aware of the gap between the scale of the reforms undertaken and the result felt. It takes time, and sometimes a long time, for the transformation initiated to be printed in the reality of the country. And I am fully aware that it is up to me, whenever necessary, to recall the course, to make it clearer for all, so that we can join together and work together, as far as possible and in clarity, all the forces available in the country. It is a never-completed but necessary effort, especially for the President of the Republic, to constantly resume, constantly reformulate, both the tohu-bohu of current events still in motion, always boiling, puts the risk of disturbing and losing its meaning. [[Applause on several benches]] Our action is a block! It's a consistency! There is no internal action on the one hand and external action on the other; It's the same thing. Addressing the French or speaking to the world, it is the same message: to protect us and to carry our values. There is no economic action on the one hand and social action on the other; It's the same trait, the same purpose: to be stronger to be fairer. In essence, this is the affirmation and proposal of the French project for the twenty-first century. After so many doubts, after so many uncertainties, it is a question of France's project. France's project for the French, women and men in their lives as it is, and often difficult, in the world as it is, that we want to change whenever it is necessary. France's project for our Europe at risk and for the world, in which history has given our country eminent and now unique responsibilities, since the United Kingdom, which sits with us on the United Nations Security Council, has decided to leave the European Union. [[Applause on a few benches]] This project requires us to be strong. That is why we know that we need to rebuild our economy, free up and support our creative forces, that we need the best school, the best university, the best research! That is why we need the best army, the best defence systems possible: in a dangerous world, security and the values of civilization must be able to defend themselves when they are threatened. This project requires us to stand in solidarity. A people who dislodge, who dislodge, condemns themselves to fail. This project requires us to be fair. Right within the nations, having neither for us nor for our European union any project of domination, but a project of balance in which our values will be promoted and respect for rights – human rights and the rights of nations. [[Applause on several benches]] This French path of progress is the one we want to bring because, in the face of the fear of economic downgrading, cultural and civilizational fear, we must respond with a strong, economic, social, national and European project. Let us put things in order: this project can only be carried out if we are strong and have a solid economy. That is the answer we must give to the fear of economic and social downgrading. But the key to a strong economy is investment. [[Applause on several benches]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] That is why, in the first few weeks, we have reviewed the taxation of savings products and reformed the tax on wealth. Not, as I sometimes hear, to favour the rich, but to favour businesses. A policy for businesses is not a policy for the rich! It is a policy for the whole nation, a policy for employment, for public services, for those who remain on the margins because of lack of work and lack of income! Otherwise, how can we denounce the weaknesses of our economic model, the capital that would leave national borders, and on the other hand, create the conditions for the impossibility of investing in France? [[Applause on a few benches]] Investment is that of the nation, that of the state with a large investment plan of 50 billion euros, but must also be that of every citizen. That is why the savings of the French must be mobilized in the service of the economy. It is this framework that you have built in the last budget laws. The French must regain their share in the capital of French companies. The use of their savings, but also their closer association with the capital of the companies of which they are waged, is the key to a recovered popular capitalism! This means the direct involvement of employees in the company's success through a new momentum of participation and interest, prepared by the Government and presented to you for entry into force in 2019. [[Applause on a few benches]] [[Applause on many benches]] [[Applause on several benches]] I don't like castes, rents, privileges. I believe that there are successes that do not translate into financial enrichment. But the creation of wealth, the prosperity of a nation, is the foundation of every project of justice and equity. If we want to share the cake, the first condition is that there is a cake... And it is the companies, bringing together shareholders, managers and workers, it is the producers, who make this cake, and no one else. It is a lie to defend employees if we do not defend companies. And it's impossible to pretend to distribute when you don't produce enough. The money that invests itself, that circulates, that creates employment is not the money that is jealously theorized. That is why those who risk, who dare, who undertake must find us at their side. The 75% tax did not create jobs or improve the condition of anyone in France, but perhaps among wealth managers in Luxembourg, Switzerland or Caymans. To free investment in France by means of an appropriate and competitive tax system is thus to bring back the foreign investors who had left France. The State must assume this choice. The State must be, for citizens and businesses, a trusted interlocutor who guarantees an order while facilitating the initiative. That is why we have defined new rules which, in case of error, offer chances of catching up and simplify daily life. To accompany these economic transformations, to free investment, to reduce the tax burden on our economy, the state must also make choices. For, let us be clear, there can be no reduction in taxation or development of public investment without a slowdown in the continued increase in our spending, and there can be no better control of it without strong and courageous choices. It is in this spirit that the Prime Minister will present, in a few weeks' time, new decisions to meet the commitments to reduce our public spending made to the French. This will be accompanied in particular by a reorganisation of the State through more presence in the territories and more flexibility in management. [[Applause on a few benches]] [[Applause on many benches]] By the end of the year, the Prime Minister will present all his decisions for the indispensable transformation of public action. It is also a question of dealing collectively with our own contradictions. Everyone wants to see tax cuts – some proposed more than the government currently applies – but no one ever wants to pay them when they are decided. Above all, we must stop a mode of public action that has always made savings by reducing its presence in the territories. What the Prime Minister will present and which will be implemented from 2019 by his government, will be precisely to rethink, on all territories, the presence of the state and its services and to reopen the grip, and to do so in a way contrary to what all majorities have implemented for the reduction of public deficits for several decades. In this first year, many instruments have been put in place to support investment and innovation throughout the economy. I think, of course, of the tax reforms that I have just mentioned, of the labour market reforms that encourage risk-taking by allowing us to adapt when a market disappears or changes. We must now free up the barriers to business growth. The action plan for enterprise growth and transformation, i.e. the PACTE law, must facilitate business creation, encourage entrepreneurship and allow failure to succeed better. This law must also help to grow businesses by making our regulations less restrictive and our financing more abundant. It is important to continue this work of simplifying and opening up our economy, thus promoting economic initiative and job creation. France must also reconnect with a policy of ambitious lines and choose key sectors where it will concentrate public and private efforts, thus creating the conditions that will make our country the privileged land of tomorrow's economy. It is this course that we have begun to set for digital and artificial intelligence, agriculture and agri-food, and for industry. Against those who thought it was necessary to choose between employment and innovation, we decided not to miss the next technological revolutions. That is why I presented last February a national and European strategy for the deployment of artificial intelligence. This strategy revolves around growth, job creation, the identification of new jobs, but also around the ethical principles to which we are committed and which these developments could weaken. Against those who thought that certain sectors were doomed to decline, we have re-armed our industry. Thanks to the reforms of this first year, for the first time in a long time in France, large foreign groups have decided to develop production capacities in our country, particularly in energy and aeronautics. We must continue this micro-economic work on the ground, and we must also continue our efforts to ensure that this industrial development takes place within a fair European framework. [[Vif applause on many benches]] That is why France, with many of its partners, will support the European Commission's proposal to create a tax on the turnover of digital giants who today do not pay taxes in our countries. [[Applause on many benches]] Against those who condemned French agriculture to the dead end, in a devouring competition with the large countries of intensive production, we have embarked on a vast movement towards French know-how, excellence and production in their great variety, in particular the most environmentally friendly. You will thus rebuild a quality food sovereignty, for the health and well-being of our fellow citizens, but also to enable our peasants to live in dignity from their work. This policy of channels, which we are going to structure and amplify in the coming year, must allow the economic networks and solidarity between companies to be re-established, which draw the geography of our country and which we have for too long abandoned to chance and fatalism. [[Applause on a few benches]] I believe in this voluntarism, which is not a dirigism, but also a reminder to our companies that they are coming and going from somewhere and that our territories are also their future. Finally, against those who thought it was necessary to choose between growth and environmental and climate transition, we decided to equip our businesses and our economy for this great challenge of the century. That is why you voted the law that put an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in France, which has made our country an example for the world. [[Applause on several benches]] That is why we have taken note of the health concerns of our fellow citizens in order to adapt our productive model and make it exemplary in Europe and France. I am thinking in particular of the gradual cessation of the use of glyphosate. It is for this same reason that in the coming weeks the Government will have to present an ambitious strategy to reduce air pollution and adapt our mobilitys like energy production to our contemporary demands. [[Applause on a few benches]] These are not only commitments, but also economic opportunities, sectors that will develop, industries that are structuring – I am thinking in particular of those of the circular economy or hydrogen – and therefore choices that our economy and society must now make and which we must accompany. I affirm before you, representatives of the nation, the strength of our economy, when we have fully recovered it, will be the very foundation of our project of society and of the project of justice which is at the heart what I want to carry on behalf of France. [[Applause on several benches]] The project I believe in is not a project for the material success of some, it is a project for the improvement of the lives of all. For it is not the small number that matters to me, but the community of our fellow citizens, from the bottom to the top of the social scale. All the societies that have propagated the idea that prosperity must necessarily translate into growing inequalities will pay it, I believe, at a high price. Some have already started paying for it, when the popular and middle classes woke up to remind their leaders that the account was not there. [[Applause on several benches]] But let us not be mistaken, we too have growing inequalities. There is a French path to inequality, which has progressed for more than thirty years. It is not, as with many of our neighbours, an inequality of income, even if it exists. No, what has settled above all in France is the inequality of destiny. Depending on where you were born, the family you grew up in, the school you attended, your fate is, most often, sealed. And these inequalities of destiny, over the last thirty years, have progressed, whether we want to see it or not, in our country. [[Applause on several benches]] [[Same movements]] This is what obsessed me: the French model of our century, the real social model of our country must choose to tackle the deep roots of the inequalities of destiny, those that are decided even before our birth, that insidiously favour one another and inexorably disadvantage others. Without it being seen, without it being admitted. The French model that I want to defend requires that it is no longer the birth, the chance or the networks that command the social situation, but the talents, the effort and the merit. Yes, in my view, the very heart of a social policy, the one we must carry, is not to help people live better the condition in which they were born and in which they are destined to stay, but to help them get out of it. The first pillar of social policy that I believe in is the emancipation of everyone, freeing themselves from social determinism and freeing themselves from the statutes. That is why, for the past year, we have done so much for education. This is the struggle of our century, because it is at the heart of the economic transformation of the post-industrial society in which we live. It is made up of changes, ruptures and mutations that force us to better train at the beginning, but also throughout life. Since the birth of the Republic, since Condorcet, school has been the very condition of a free and autonomous citizen's life. But while we needed it, perhaps more than ever, we have, in recent decades, broken the dignity of transmission, damaged the prestige of teachers, discredited the usefulness of the diploma, aggravating in this the worst of inequalities, the one for which no one is responsible: the inequality of birth, the inequality of social condition. [[Applause on many benches]] That is why radical decisions have been taken in this area: compulsory three-year nursery school is one of those measures of which we must be proud. Children who left school at that age did not catch up with socialization and learning. Children in modest backgrounds were the least educated or not. This will come into force as early as the start of 2019. [[Vif applause on many benches]] The doubling of preparatory and first-year elementary classes into priority education areas – known as REP and REP+ – is a more effective measure of social justice than any redistribution system. In fact, there is a differentiated distribution of basic knowledge: reading, writing, counting, acting. The reform of guidance ensures more judicious choices and more appropriate trajectories for each individual's talents, while the reform of the baccalaureate over three years re-focuss the skills on the essential, so often lost sight of the mists of little substantial educational ambitions. The setting up of Parcoursup gives young people the ability to decide more lucidly on their initial training. [[Applause on many benches]] By making these strong decisions, a radical transformation of our education system, you have made it possible to train women and men who are more confident of their skills, better educated, and, thus, more assured citizens of their place in French society and in the French nation. This is how we will return to this French ideal of the Enlightenment, which places this emancipated citizenship above social conditions, from both origins and gender. Emancipation also requires merit and work. A year ago, companies did not have the means to hire; Now they have them, but they struggle to recruit. It would be absurd if we went from a situation where an unemployed person could take up a job but the company could not offer it to him, to a situation where a company could offer him that job but he could not take it! [[Applause on a few benches]] All our employment policies must be reviewed in this light. That is why you will soon be called upon to vote for a far-reaching reform of vocational training and apprenticeship. It will be up to the social partners and businesses to take advantage of the new tools we give them. Learning and alternation will be the social mobility accelerator we need. We thus put the young person and his master of learning at the heart of the system and rebuild all around them with one goal: to end the ravages of youth unemployment. We lower the cost of the apprentice for the employer, make these courses more attractive for young people and simplify the rules to make them more adapted to the reality of work. Other countries have taken this path and succeeded. I will therefore ask everyone for a collective effort: companies to take apprentices, teachers to promote them and families to support their children in this successful career path. All of us must make this reform a formidable collective challenge for the nation in the years to come. From this year onwards, the vocational and technological fields are much more popular with our young bachelors. [[Applause on several benches]] This is also why we launched a plan to invest in skills, particularly for the long-term unemployed and young dropouts, of an unprecedented scale: EUR 15 billion over five years to train one million young people and one million long-term job seekers. [[Applause on a few benches]] Emancipation through work requires this investment in skills. We still need to know what jobs we are talking about. Here too, inequalities are deep. In addition to those who benefit from stable contracts, a growing proportion of our citizens, often less skilled and more fragile, are increasingly condemned to create ever more precarious, ever shorter, jobs. How can we shelter, raise a family when we keep chaining contracts for a few days? The rules of unemployment insurance could involuntarily encourage the development of so-called permittency and precariousness. [[Same movements]] [[Applause on several benches]] I believe, however, that there is also a French way: that which allows economic progress to be combined with social progress at the same time. That is why I would like the social partners to revise the rules on unemployment insurance so that, in this period of economic recovery, we can not only ensure that they reward the resumption of activity much more, but also that they encourage the creation of quality jobs. The draft law on the freedom to choose one's professional future will be amended in this direction in the coming days, and these rules will be negotiated in the coming months by the social partners so that such a reform can come into force in spring 2019. It is these transformations and, more broadly, the agenda for the expected reforms that I would like to share with the social partners, which I will receive on 17 July next. The Prime Minister will structure these discussions from the beginning of the year. But in this second year, which is opening, I want to give substance to the contractual Republic to which I believe, the one which will lay the foundations for a new social contract for this century, through a discussion with all the social partners but also the elected representatives. It is to its elaboration and to the detail of its implementation that I want to invite them, starting on 17 July, to discuss the transformations of unemployment insurance, as I have just said, but also of health at work and all the subjects indispensable for these transformations, to discuss in the constructive spirit with which we have been able to conduct, in recent months, the dialogue between the Government and the social partners on equality between women and men. [[Applause on several benches]] We want to return to sustainable growth, but also to promote shared growth. That is why I will be receiving the first hundred French companies in the course of the month in order to ask for their commitment to meet the challenges ahead. I expect them to commit themselves to learning, employment in difficult neighbourhoods or economic areas that are in a state of distress, as there will be no economic dynamism without the social mobilization of all the stakeholders. I will ask them not for a commitment enshrined in the law, but for an active, immediate commitment, a commitment to create jobs, to hire apprentices – a visible commitment, a commitment to our territories. In this way, I would like to continue in the coming months this new phase of mobilisation for our territories, with all the elected representatives concerned, the main companies and investors. We need a new economic development, which is a project development – as you know, you who are here. I will not go back to territorial reforms; the Prime Minister will do so tomorrow and the National Conference of Territories will meet in the coming days. The territorial policy that I believe in is not a policy that would defend particular interests or categories, in which such a community should be played against the state. It is a policy at the service of our fellow citizens, a policy that will prevent you from losing months, as we have done constantly in recent decades, to deliberating on the competences that should be transferred to one rather than the other, to go back to the next mandate. [[Applause on many benches]] [[Same movements]] The constitutional reform before you promotes the decentralization of projects through differentiation. The development that I believe is aimed at launching new projects and rebalancing the territories by setting up economic activities designed in conjunction with all local elected officials and accompanied by the Government and the State services in connection with these projects. Here too, we have the right to propose to our fellow citizens better than the stuttering of quarrels than we know too much. Social progress, if it is the result of individual emancipation and the ability of everyone to rise to society through school, merit and work, also requires a collective impetus to ensure the dignity of everyone. That is national solidarity. This is the fundamental intuition that led, after the Second World War, to the creation of our social security. Seventy years later, we can be proud of this, but we must also look at failures and shortcomings, and examine with clarity what needs to be improved. Social security had to be universal, and we everywhere see whole sections of our population too little or too poorly covered, who give up care or who do not have access to it. It had to respond to the deepest anxieties of existence, and today we are left alone, or almost alone, in the face of major risks, such as loss of autonomy, and uncertain pensions. It had to inspire confidence, and we see, on the contrary, complacently agitated by those who have only the word "assistanat" in the mouth, the distrusting it. [[Applause on several benches]] The priority of the coming year is simple: we must build the welfare state of the twenty-first century. It will be an emancipatory, universal, effective, accountable, i.e. covering more, protecting better and relying on the same rights and duties for all. [[Applause on a few benches]] A universal welfare state, first. The welfare state of the 20th century was designed for a society of full employment. The holding of a job – and of continuous, permanent, permanent work – has thus become the sesame in order to gain access to national solidarity. In a society hit by mass unemployment and the intermittentness of career paths, this sesame has lost its value; It has become a formidable barrier. Our solidarity, in its functioning, has become statutory. It has focused on careers, sectors of activity. It no longer meets the rules of an economy of innovation and competence. We must protect our fellow citizens not according to their status or sector of activity, but in a fairer, more universal way. From this year onwards, we have extended unemployment insurance to self-employed workers and resignations, in accordance with arrangements previously negotiated by the social partners. [[Applause on several benches]] [[Vif applause on many benches]] [[Exclaims on several benches.– Vif applause on several others]] [[Vif applause on several benches]] In 2019, we will recast our pension plan, to better protect those whose careers are minced, unstable, atypical – often women, by the way. In this regard, to make it appear that we would like to abolish the pensions of reversion is an unhealthy rumor that is only intended to scare. I make it clear that nothing will change for today's pensioners. Nothing! And this, for a simple reason: for the first time, we have not chosen to make savings on the backs of today's pensioners or those who are about to retire, we have chosen to rebuild a pension system, a system that is fair, unique, transparent, a system that will gradually replace the 40 existing schemes. [[Vif applause on many benches]] Who doesn't believe in the pension system anymore? These are the young people, because they believe that this system will not fund their own retirement. Everyone seems to forget that our pension system, to which I am deeply committed and which will be at the heart of this reform, is a redistribution system, that is, one based on solidarity between generations. Retirement is not a right for which one has contributed his whole life; retirement is what the assets pay for pensioners. It is on the implementation of this unique, transparent and fair system that you will have to discuss, work and vote over the next year. [[Applause on a few benches]] The welfare state of the twenty-first century must also be effective. This should be particularly the case with regard to health; The first reforms we have undertaken on the remainder of the zero burden or on prevention will be complemented by the presentation, in the autumn, of a profound transformation of our organization of care on the national territory, with a view to responding to new risks, new pathologies and changes in our health in a society that is ageing and where chronic diseases are much more numerous. [[Applause on several benches]] Finally, this welfare state will have to be more civic and accountable. National solidarity is increasingly financed by taxation. The provisions you voted on on unemployment insurance have thus removed all the wage contributions, which have been replaced by the general social contribution, the CSG. But we must consider the reform as a whole and not consider that the increase in the CSG, forgetting that there is, on the other hand, a decrease in all social contributions. This reform has made it possible to increase the purchasing power of workers, while preserving competitiveness and ensuring the maintenance of rights. [[Applause on several benches]] It also leads to a change in the very philosophy of our national solidarity, in order, in a way, to regain its salt. This solidarity is less and less an individual insurance with a drawing right. Funded by all taxpayers, it involves rights and duties, because everyone is accountable to everyone. As a result of the reform that you voted for, unemployment insurance is no longer financed by employees' contributions, it is financed by employers' contributions and by the CSG. All the consequences of this transformation must be assessed. There is no longer a right to unemployment, in the sense that it was traditionally understood, there is a right which is offered by society, but which has not been guaranteed access in an individual capacity, since all taxpayers have financed it. This is where true transformation is played, and that is where true dignity lies: everyone must be protected, but everyone has his or her share of responsibility in society. It is by contributing, each according to its possibilities, that one becomes a citizen. [[Applause on several benches]] That is why we are going to transform our system of solidarity to make it both more universal and more accountable, by accompanying anyone who can to a professional activity, even on a part-time basis, and by requiring everyone to take their part in the functioning of society, to its extent. It is this system of rights and duties that is at the heart of the Republican pact, not the odious stigmatization that some would benefit from assistance. It is this philosophy that will be implemented in the context of the reform of unemployment insurance and the reform of social minimums. At last, national solidarity is reflected in the help that we owe unconditionally to the most fragile. [[Applause on several benches]] The most fragile are the children first. What glory can be drawn from social policies that have condemned one in five children to poverty in our country? We will invest to lift children out of poverty and its dramatic consequences. In particular, we will take action against children at risk or ill-treated, so many in our country. These initiatives will take place in the fall. [[Applause on several benches]] The most fragile are our citizens, too, who are in a situation of disability. For the latter, you have decided to increase the allowance for adults with disabilities by one hundred euros. The policy of reintegration into school and work will be pursued, with clear budgetary choices and strengthened support. We will also initiate a policy of returning to full citizenship, including a return to the right to vote for these people, including those under guardianship. [[Applause on several benches]] [[Same movements]] The most fragile are still our citizens who live in poverty. The poverty reduction strategy will be presented in September and implemented in 2019. Built with all the players, it will not only propose a policy of classical redistribution, it will initiate a policy of investment and social support. These will not be new subsidies for the balance of any account, it will be a real accompaniment to the activity, the work, the effectiveness of fundamental rights: health, housing, education. I want this action to engage all the living forces of society, primarily those living in poverty. I do not want a strategy that would be imposed from above, in the torpor of the summer, in order to solve a problem or check a box. I want a strategy that finally emerges from the state of civic minority those of our fellow citizens who live in poverty and who want to be the actors of their own lives and of this change. I want a strategy to fight poverty that does not allow our poor citizens to live better, but to get out of poverty, once and for all! [[Applause on several benches]] Finally, the most fragile are the oldest, living in a situation of dependency. There lies the anguish of the elderly and their families. We let her settle down and allowed the families to find the answers for themselves, outside any official framework, making addiction an unheard of distress: distress of the people who are experiencing this situation during the last months of their lives; The distress of their families who live in anguish, often that of not offering them the life they owed them; distress of caregivers who are facing a transformation, too, of what addiction is. We are entering institutions more and more later and in increasingly difficult situations; and we leave there remarkable staff, but with equipment and a rate of supervision that do not allow us to cope with an increasingly medicalized dependence and a transformation of the old age. What we have seen emerge in recent years is a new social risk that we will all face. Part of the anguish that I hear our older fellow citizens express is not just anxiety for themselves and their retirement, it also concerns what they are going to become or who they are often responsible for. [[Applause on several benches]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] We must therefore fully build the financing and organisation of this new social risk. We can't ignore it any longer, pretend! We must come to the help of families, organize things differently, also meet the needs of the staff of the care institutions for the dependent elderly, who do the admirable work that I described. The year 2019 will be devoted to it, and I hope that a law will be passed this year that will allow it. [[Applause on a few benches]] It is certain, however, that responding to contemporary fears does not only require economic and social action. We live in a country that feels deafly afraid of cultural erasure, of a slow decline in its own landmarks, of historical landmarks that have forged our nation. Terrorism, the bustle of the world, immigration, our failures in integration, the tensions in our society for several decades have been collapsing, often in confusion, and creating a cultural, civilizational fear, the deaf feeling that this world would come to impose on us to give up the one from which we come, with its fundamentals and its values. [[Same movements]] That is why we must restore Republican order and respect, that is to say, restore this idea that democracy is not a neutral space open to all relativisms, but first of all the shared recognition of the rights and duties that underpin the Republic itself. [[Applause on a few benches]] Of this republican order, security is the first pillar. For insecurity affects above all the most modest, the most popular neighbourhoods, the working-class and middle classes who have not necessarily chosen the place where they live and suffer all the consequences. The daily security police reconstitute this proximity of the population and the police, which gives a face to the authority and conjures up the feeling of abandonment or oblivion of populations who have been subjected to laws that are no longer those of the Republic. So you have begun to give new means to our security forces, and I thank you for that. The reform of the criminal procedure will allow us to go further, and to reduce unnecessary charges for our police officers and gendarmes as well as for our magistrates. You will have this important text to discuss and vote for it to come into effect in the first quarter of 2019. [[Applause on a few benches]] We will also redefine the meaning of punishment, because what we want is an authority of the Republic that enforces the rules with discernment and fairness, so that the prison, in particular, regains its full meaning in terms of punishment, but also of reintegration. [["Congratulation! » and applause on many benches]] In recent months, we have also put an end to the illegal occupation of the public domain that we have been too accustomed to for years, both in Notre-Dame-des-Landes and in Bure, and which left the inhabitants in disarray. Security also covers the fight against terrorism. On this point, we have continued the necessary transformations and re-armed our organization at all levels, in particular through the law of internal security and the fight against terrorism, which has enabled us to emerge from the state of emergency and to establish in our law the instruments necessary to combat contemporary terrorism. In Marseilles, Trèbes and Paris, we had to undergo new attacks on Islamist terrorism, the forms of which have changed, which no longer relies on highly structured international organizations, but loves itself in our societies and uses all contemporary means. New decisions will be made and the work must continue, unfailing but unabated. It's the one of a generation. [[Mrs. and Mr. the members of the Congress, except a few, as well as several members of the Government rise and applaud at length]] [[Same movements]] On these issues, time is at the hands of determined action, and here I want to pay tribute to all our soldiers fighting in the Levant and in Africa the jihadist enemy, as well as to our internal security forces, which, with courage and calm, ensure the protection of our fellow citizens. [["Congratulation! » and applause on several benches]] Beyond security, the republican order is based on a system of rights and duties of which every citizen is the custodian and which we must reactivate. Rights and duties, of course, are taught more systematically at school. That is why we will continue the training and accompaniment of teachers, especially on secularism. [[Applause on several benches]] But we will also do so through the universal national service, which will be specified by the end of the year, following a necessary consultation. Since when had this not been the way to probe young people about their aspirations? I believe deeply in this universal service, because it is by better knowing one's compatriot, that one would never have met otherwise, that one can better understand him, respect him and feel this invisible bond that makes the community of destiny of a nation. It is also the way to understand what commitment is, the heart of our Republic, and I know that our youth will be able to grasp it. [[Applause on several benches]] The republican society we want is a society of respect and consideration. As we saw during the presidential campaign, a form of disrespect, or even violence, had become commonplace with regard to a French category: women. Who would have thought that, at the beginning of the twenty-first century, the State should still fight to stop the harassment of everyday life, the inequality of wages, the physical and moral violence against women? [[Applause on several benches]] [[Same movements]] This fight, remember, first surprised. To some, it might even have seemed derisory when, before my election, I undertook to make it the great cause of the quinquennium. An important law in this area will be passed shortly, and mobilization on rights and equal pay will continue in the coming months and years. But in doing so, we have preceded a global movement. France, when this movement arose in our home, was ready and conscious. We must be proud of this. We did not follow the movement: we anticipated it, because respect and consideration are not negotiated in a republican society; and when they retreat, the whole society retreats. [[Applause on a few benches]] This is, moreover, what has also happened in entire territories, enclosed in contempt and condescendence. Our policy for neighbourhoods has thus been based on the return of consideration and on this conviction that being born and living in a neighbourhood cannot be a stigma. The free jobs, the generalization of internships in companies, the return of public services, accelerated urban renewal programmes, pragmatic responses built with citizens, an adapted school will enable the return of a national consideration which, too often, has confused itself with the indifferentiation of expensive plans to be sealed in forgotten territories. The republican order is also this need to bring back sections of society that have moved away from it. [[Applause on several benches]] [[Same movements]] The Republic has no reason to be in trouble with Islam, nor with any religion. Secularism, moreover, commands that it does not have to know about it and simply wants everyone to be guaranteed the freedom to believe or not to believe. [[Applause on many benches]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] But there is a radical and aggressive reading of Islam, which aims to challenge our rules and laws of free country and free society, whose principles do not obey religious slogans. Everyone must know that in France, individual freedom, freedom of thought, freedom to criticize, equality of women and men, respect for individual choices, as long as they do not wait for the rights of citizens, are intangible principles. Everyone must know that no challenge to these principles can be accepted on the basis of a religious dogma. Secularity is mutual respect: respect for society and the State for believers; respect of believers for society and the principles of a State that belongs to all. I know that the vast majority of our Muslim fellow citizens know, share, approve and are ready to participate in this affirmation of our Republic. [[Applause on several benches]] [[Same movements]] That is why, as early as the autumn, we will clarify this situation, giving Islam a framework and rules guaranteeing that it will be applied everywhere in accordance with the laws of the Republic. We will do so with the French whose confession it is and with their representatives. Public order, ordinary civility, the independence of minds and individuals from religion are not vain words in France, and this imposes a renovated framework, a new harmony. This approach had been delayed in the name of this idea that everything is worth it and that, in essence, our country is only a chaotic blend of traditions and cultures. On this ground only moral insecurity and political extremism have grown. It is time for the Republic to take up the cultural issue and once again consider it its duty to bring forth not an official culture, but a shared culture. [[Applause on many benches]] If the school is the crucible of this common culture, society is the body of its resonance, and we must work together to give back to France this voice, this stamp, this gaze which has always made its singularity, which are the confluence of a thousand rivers, but which is recognized at first glance. That is why we are making so much effort for heritage. That is why we are fighting for the French language all over the world. That is why we want a cultural policy that dares to say that it is more beautiful, deeper, richer than others, and that our duty is to give the best to all our compatriots – this policy of access to culture through school, throughout life and throughout our territories. That is why, finally, we must take care of our authors, ensure that they are adequately remunerated and defend their situation in Europe, where victories have been won, but where the fight continues. We do not want an official culture, but a plural and vibrant French culture, which can continue to flourish and shine. We want to continue to produce a French imagination. This republican order, finally, is built in national cohesion and therefore in the relationship to the other: the foreigner. The fear we need to hear is that one. I know how concerned you yourself have been about these debates. I believe that this subject cannot be resolved either in the emotion, which creates confusion, or in the nationalist closure and withdrawal, which do not allow any problems to be settled on a lasting basis. We must, on this matter again, be faithful to our Constitution, which unconditionally protects those who seek asylum, but imposes precise rules on those who, for economic reasons, leave their country to join ours. [[Applause on several benches]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] The republican order demands respect for borders, rules to reach what the nation is – it is the very principle of sovereignty – and a duty of humanity that our Constitution provides. It is by respecting this grammar that we face our contemporary challenges. There is no short-term, easy solution: neither that of emotion, nor that of anger. There is only one demanding voice, that of the Republic and of cooperation in Europe. It requires a policy that we must rethink, to which we must restore ambition: a renewed partnership with Africa. This youth who leave Africa today to take all the risks and who is not, in a large majority, entitled to asylum, is the youth of despair, the youth to whom no project has been given, whether it comes from the Gulf of Guinea or much of the Sahel. France and with it Europe must rebuild the terms of a partnership, because contemporary history only reminds us of one thing: we are not an island and we have bound destiny. [[Vif applause on many benches]] [[Same movements]] The second of our answers will be a strengthening of our common borders in Europe – an investment assumed by France, a desired investment, a coherent one – and a policy of responsibility and solidarity within Europe. No short-term nationalist policy will solve the migration situation in any way; It will sow division in Europe. Any policy that would like to mix all situations and not see that there are today different ones, depending on whether one comes from a country at war or whether one does not come from it, also forgets that indispensable national cohesion that we must preserve. But France will never accept the easy solutions that some propose, which would consist in organizing deportations across Europe, to go and put in I do not know which camps, at its borders, within it or elsewhere, foreigners that we would not want. This republican order we believe in is the foundation of a nation of free men and women. It is based on a permanent ethical tension, the very one of the Republic, which requires us not to give in to any contemporary ease. This is also a power of the twenty-first century, and it is France's vocation to root its strength in this civic freedom, when too many observers would like us to believe that it is power only by the hardship of individuals, by the decline of freedoms and by the weakening of rights. [[Applause on many benches]] In order to face the fear of erasure, the cultural and civilizational insecurity that I mentioned, we also need to carry the French project for Europe, which is to regain the meaning and substance of our cooperation in the face of all the challenges that we can only face together, as Europeans. This commitment, this French project, has already made real progress that some thought impossible until now. We have made progress towards a Europe that protects more: through a defence policy, whose very idea had been abandoned for seventy years; by better regulation of seconded work ensuring the protection of European employees; by defending our common commercial interests; the conclusion, a few weeks ago, of a medium-term Franco-German agreement, which had not been made for more than twenty years and which laid the foundations for a euro area budget. Since when have we not waited for crises to make concrete progress? This Europe is not incantatory or remote. It takes care of the daily lives of Europeans and their vital interests. [[Applause on several benches]] [[Same movements]] However, these real advances for which France has fought must not forget doubts and divisions. Europe is still too slow, too bureaucratic, too divided to face the brutality of political, security, migration and technological change. Our biggest mistake, however, would be to brandish the spectre of the past and to fear the repetition of history, or I do not know what fatality of the conflict in Europe. That's not what threatens us. The truth is that our struggles today require Europe, because we can only live up to contemporary challenges by joining forces with the nations whose history has made our natural partners. Neither the trade challenges, nor the climate challenges, nor the defence challenges, nor the economic and monetary challenges can be met in isolation, let alone the migration challenge that I have been raising at the moment. In this respect, the real solution can only be found in European cooperation. [[Applause on many benches]] The Europe of tomorrow is at the heart of these questions. It will necessarily be a Europe of peoples. Perhaps the twenty-eight peoples who make up the Union will not all advance to the same level, at the same time, but they will be able to act together in exceptional circumstances in the face of challenges that confront us in the most vivid of what we are. Within this Europe, France makes its voice heard, with a clear project, that which I presented last October to the Sorbonne, that of a Europe that is more sovereign, more united, more democratic, that of a Europe that will be carried by a coalition of wills and ambitions, rather than paralyzed by unanimism and captured by some. But we must also make it clear that the real border that crosses Europe is the one that separates the progressives from the nationalists. We'll be at least a decade away. It will be difficult, but the fight is clearly set. It will be at the heart of the stakes of the 2019 European elections, which belong to these elections, which are also turning points. [[Applause on several benches]] [[Same movements]] And as at the heart of any threat comes a great opportunity, it is on this crisis that we will base the keys to European power, to European independence, to the European consciousness of tomorrow, after seventy years of peace which have all too often led us to lose sight of the very meaning of Europe. The crisis we are going through tells us one thing: the Europe of the seated, the Europe of the asleep is over. A fight is being waged, which will define the project of Europe to come: that of a nationalist retreat or that of contemporary progressism. [[Applause on many benches]] France has its voice. She's being listened to because she's a loud voice. It is the voice of reason, but also, sometimes, the voice of those who do not, or who do not, speak for the defence of common goods. I'll stick to this fight. It is in this capacity that we have engaged in other struggles and that France made its voice heard, when the United States withdrew from the Paris agreement. That is why we have intervened on Iranian nuclear power or in the Syrian crisis. That is why France today is on the initiative to reinvent a strong multilateralism that the contemporary world needs. France, once again, is this mediator, a trusted third who tries to keep the balance of the world together and find the way forward. It is this necessary role, both for our security and for the defence of our values, that we are carrying out today. I believe in the possibility of defending a strong and respected democracy. I believe in the possibility of defending a strong and sovereign Europe. I believe in the possibility of defending the universal values that have made us through this highly contemporary multilateralism. [[Applause on many benches]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the course I set for France. As you will have understood, I wish to return to this French project, which we have lost sight of for too long in terms of freshness or intellectual comfort. He assumes, I agree, that he wants to free himself from the quarrels where we have, in a way, confused or to which we have long become accustomed. This project can only unfold if we end with this renunciation where we have been locked up for forty years, which would like France to be only an average power. This idea stifled us and bruised us. I believe that France has the means to become again a power of the twenty-first century. [[Applause on a few benches]] [[Same movements]] [[Applause on many benches]] [[Very many members of Congress and members of the Government rise and applaud at length]] To carry out this project, we are starting from the real. We will not overwhelm ourselves with preconceived ideas, annealing cleavages, outdated ideas. The progress, the dignity of the individual, the just strength of the Republic are our compasses and we are enough. Our only ideology is the greatness of France, which is not displeased by some, and what we are building, does not dislike the followers of the immediate, we are doing so for today, but also for tomorrow, that is for youth, so that it may grow up in a country where it can choose its life, feel fully that belonging which makes the strength of a people and contribute freely to this project called a nation. It is in short a new patriotism, reinvented, revived that we are building. It doesn't happen in a day or a year, but that's what I'm calling you, ladies and gentlemen. Long live the Republic, live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u4	Thank you, Mr. President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will suspend the sitting for a few moments to accompany the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u6	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u7	The next item is the debate on the statement by the President of the Republic. I would remind you that the speaker nominated by each group has a maximum time of ten minutes, and that five minutes have been allocated to a member of Congress who is not a member of any group – in this case a member who is not a member of Parliament. The next speaker is Mr Richard Ferrand, for the La République group on the move of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u8	[[Applause on many benches]] Mr President of Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the commitment of the President of the Republic to come every year to report and to speak before the Parliament meeting in Congress is kept: word given, word respected! For the past year, we have not given in to anything, neither to the temptation of immobilism nor to the temptation of renunciation. As the work done demonstrates, we are on our way with you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Prime Minister. The majority in the National Assembly can be proud of it. Some did not give the price of this almost equal majority, composed of members from the left, the centre or the right, and more in contact with reality than with political practices. My pride is that we remain in our institutional life the guardians of reality, which we carry to the executive, with total loyalty, the concerns and criticisms of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on many benches]] To act properly, we must listen, understand, explain and report. Nothing succeeds without involving our people, associations, trade unions and all forces in a collective purpose. Transformations will succeed only well understood and as they bear fruit. Listening is the only and most secure way to be heard, and that is what the 17 July Social Summit announced by the President will be useful for. [[Applause on a few benches]] As early as the first year, the road map of the presidential majority was scrupulously respected. And let everyone be convinced of this: our priority will for efficiency is linked to the values of progress, justice and solidarity. We will go further, because the monitoring of law enforcement and the evaluation of public policies are inseparable from our conception of the parliamentary mandate, whose profound change we want. The labour society we are calling for is to use all the levers to give everyone all their chances back. To free oneself from the carcans and blockages that hinder activity is to reconnect with movement, inventiveness and collective progress. This is why the right to error recreates confidence between the French and the administrations, while the future CAPTE law will help our SMEs to grow and create jobs. Through our economic and social choices, we have affirmed our confidence in the ability of French and French people to develop activity and strengthen solidarity, giving everyone the means to control their destiny. [[Applause on many benches]] This will to transform, to give everyone the power to do and to succeed is also reflected in the texts on labour law, for apprenticeship and for vocational training. By freeing up work to restore the desire to undertake, by promoting emancipation through education and training, and by putting work at the heart of our society, we give hope and perspectives to parents and children today, and that is why our majority stands by your side, Mrs. Penicaud. Together with the workers, the peasants, the workers, the teachers, the traders and craftsmen, the civil servants, the liberal professions and the entrepreneurs, all our compatriots who make our country live every day, we want everyone to be able to get the best remuneration from their work. Other compatriots, far from economic life, sometimes even from social life, are entitled to hope for active national solidarity, which pulls them out of the impasse to put them back on the road to the Republic. [[Applause on many benches]] To meet the requirement of equality, our French passion, is therefore to make that from school to university, everyone can be liberated from the determinisms of social reproduction, which would condemn generations of children of France to life. The challenge is not to bring the same thing to all, but to provide everyone with what they need! [[Applause on many benches]] The best, fairest, most effective social protection is to reduce unemployment and protect, in dignity, our most fragile compatriots. A good social policy is one which reopens the doors of society to those who suffer from lack of employment, disease or disability, not that which merely improves the conditions of survival by social minima alone. A good social policy is to prevent inequalities and not just to correct them, to tackle their roots and not just their devastating effects. That is how we will fight poverty. [[Applause on many benches]] All the transformations we are carrying out require that territorial inequalities be combated, that our democracy be modernized and that the link between citizens and the nation be consolidated. With elected officials, let us free the territories, who know how to play their strengths and correct their weaknesses, and who will adapt laws and regulations in a differentiated way. This very obvious understanding that Brittany is not Alsace, which itself is not Corsica, which itself is not the island of Reunion, will facilitate the mobilization of all the energies and the influence of our territories, an objective which the National Assembly and the Senate fundamentally share. [[Applause on many benches]] I hope that we will soon meet together in Congress to adopt together the constitutional revision which the National Assembly will begin to consider tomorrow. In our secular Republic, our society is traversed by ethical and philosophical debates which Parliament will have to consider in order to make them live, to enlighten them and to decide. It is never good that the advent of law is lagging behind societal developments. The major debates are the hygiene and oxygen of democracy. That is why we will need to put on our agenda without delay the expansion of access to medically assisted reproduction as the question of the end of life. [[Applause on a few benches]] But it would be inconsequential and reductive to think of our future outside of global challenges and world disorders. Thus, with you, dear Nicolas Hulot, fighting against global warming and for the preservation of the environment and biodiversity is not an option, but an absolute obligation. It is about our common good and the preservation of humanity. It is also an obligation for all peoples who, without virtuous development, will be condemned to poverty, wars and desperate migration. The changes in the United States and the nationalisms that threaten Europe and that are developing all over the world make it more necessary than ever for France to act, which is strong in its universal values. [[Many Congressmen rise and applaud]] To build in Europe, to influence the course of the world and to meet global challenges, France must be strong. Its strength, it draws it from enlightened, trained, bold and creative citizens, numerous and strong associations, and conquering companies. The complexities of the world are known to us, and we must seize it, without it frightening or blocking action. It is our honour to look at the realities in the face, from global disorder to philosophical questioning, from economic and social issues to ecological needs. It is the entanglement of these complexities that underpins political action and gives it its dignity. Our burden and our raison d'être lead us to continue to explore the land unknown to progress and to clear new hopes: these are the works of the walkers, deputies of the year II.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u9	Bruno Retailleau, for the Republicans of the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u10	[[Applause on a few benches]] Mr.President of Congress, Mr.President of the Senate, Mr.Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a year later, here we are again in Versailles. The decor is immutable, but something has changed. The atmosphere in France has changed. The election of Emmanuel Macron had undoubtedly given rise to hope among the French. But, for the past year, they have gone from hope to doubt. If they doubt, it was because they forgot nothing, neither the presidential promises, nor the French impatience that Emmanuel Macron had diagnosed. [[Applause on many benches]] If they doubt it, it is because the President of the Republic is not at the rendezvous of his promises. What did he promise? Two things: the transformation of France and the emancipation of the French. It was his words and it was, Prime Minister, your road map. [[Applause on many benches]] What about it? You have confused transformation with communication and, in the name of the emancipation of the French, you have taken the risk of distilling and weakening a little more the links between the French and holding them together as a people. [["Ah! » on several benches]] Despite the melody of skillful speeches, has there been a transformation? Yes, there has been some progress but transformations, too little! [[Applause on many benches]] As yesterday, France is a champion for public spending and compulsory levies. As they say in the Tour de France, we are at the bottom of the pack: twenty-eighth out of twenty-eight in Europe. As yesterday, you neglected the downgrading of French competitiveness; Of course, you have given a little wind of freedom to our businesses,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u11	Thank you for recognizing him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u12	[[Applause on many benches]] ... but you're going to succeed in turning them into tax collectors with this technocratic toquade that is the levy at source. As in the past, your tax initiatives have been as messy as they are unfair: on the one hand, the increase in the CSG, including the most modest retirees and, on the other, the removal of the exit tax. Where is the social justice that the President told us about? [[Vif applause on many benches]] With regard to European integration, what have become of the fine presidential promises – a budget of several hundred billion euros, a finance minister and a parliament for the euro area and transnational European lists? On all these issues, Europe said: no! By the way, Prime Minister, I do not accept that the President of the Republic should reduce the European choice to an opposition between the camp of the progressives and that of the nationalists. The French and Europeans want another Europe, a Europe that protects them from migration shocks and protects their jobs. They no longer want a federal institutional mechanism; They want a Europe which, at last, carries a project for the great civilization that is European civilization. [[Exclaims]] And the President spoke, yes, of the existential question, which tarauds all peoples, including the French people. He talked about civilizational fears: do you push them back? No, because on the pretext of emancipating the French, you once again take the risk of distilling the bonds that unite them. [[Applause on many benches]] First, the link between generations, through repeated attacks on family policy and the opposition between the active and retired, as if there were a generation of privileged! [[Applause on many benches]] [[Exclaims on several benches]] Then you weaken the link with the territories, these small carnal homelands of which Péguy spoke, these small emotional republics of which Gérard Larcher could have spoken, by wanting to chain the hands of the territorial authorities. Everything is just recentralisation to Paris: skills, learning, fiscal and fiscal policy, housing policy... [[Applause on many benches]] [[Same movements]] You are also about to propose a constitutional revision that will weaken the representation of our territories, which have already lost their teachers, their traders and their factors. Prime Minister, for fifty years, mayors have never been so close to despair. Hear them, because they are the civic fabric of the French Republic. [[Applause on many benches]] Finally, the third link, the most precious because the most sacred, is the civic bond. We have no opposition to the President of the Republic building a direct link between himself and each Frenchman, provided that he does not give in to the vertigo of verticality and does not confuse the necessary reaffirmation of State authority with the derisory exaltation of personality. In any case, it was not at Notre-Dame-des-Landes that the law of the Republic triumphed! This link, you say, at the risk of promoting a phenomenon that you want to combat: the shift of a Republic of citizens towards a society of individuals, towards a society – to use the words used here by the President of the Republic – "producers and consumers". [[Exclaims on various benches]] This is an important link. But, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, care must be taken to preserve him, because he is already wounded by the bite of jihadism and by the burning of communalism. If we want to fight these poisons, we must first have a clear public statement. But where is the clarity when the President of the Republic can claim – as he did a year ago at the end of the Hamburg Summit – that terrorism is the result of global warming, while at the same time denouncing the Islamist hydra in the beautiful speech he delivered three months ago in the courtyard of the Hotel des Invalides, in front of the coffin of Colonel Arnaud Beltrame? Where's the logic? Clarity is needed. Where, however, is it, when the President of the Republic, before the American Congress, praises multiculturalism, and rejects again, today, the great discourse on secularism and the organization of Islam? In the hollow of this silence lies a disorder. That is why I said earlier that the French have passed, in a year, from hope to doubt. In a fractured country like ours, between doubt and despair, there is only one step. [[Vif applause on many benches. – Several members of Congress rise and applaud]] Yes, time is running out! The time of the quinquennium is counted. However, time, if it hurryes, is never lost. When you're French, when you believe in France, you know it's never too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u13	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor for the Republican Group of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u14	Mr President of Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in our republican understanding of our institutions, the separation of powers and the responsibility of the Government before Parliament are not negotiable. This means that we are not a power subordinate to the executive. This means that we are accountable only to the nation and to the French, whose legitimacy we derive. [[Applause on many benches]] That is why we hesitated to come to Versailles to listen to a President of the Republic who did not really understand that Parliament is not his thing or his toy, nor a kind of walker that would allow him to rise up to strengthen his own power. [[Same movements]] The President of the Republic has chosen to speak a lot, a lot of him and a lot in your place, Prime Minister, because you are normally responsible to Parliament. He also chose to speak very little about the Constitution, while he and he alone decided to mobilise Parliament on this subject for weeks. [["He's right! » and applause on many benches]] As for the practice of Article 18 of our Constitution which it establishes, it is questionable, since the intended speech was never conceived as a general policy speech. If your majority votes in favour of the announced amendment, we will clearly move towards a change of regime, in favour of a presidential regime, and towards the disappearance of the post of Prime Minister! [["No! » on a few benches]] It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to raise your head! To raise your head is to start by saying that the constitutional revision proposed by the Head of State is dangerous. Are we going to give Mr Macron a blank cheque to reduce Parliament's powers? Since 1974, all the Presidents of the Republic – and especially Nicolas Sarkozy, as demonstrated by the constitutional revision of 2008 (Applause on a few benches) – have understood and accepted that France must present a balance of powers, between its Parliament on the one hand and its government on the other. That a great democratic country deserves a respected parliament is obvious. [[Applause on many benches]] Yet this majority is about to weaken the National Assembly and the Senate of the Republic. To weaken them, by corseating the parliamentary procedure and attacking bicameralism! To weaken them, by reducing the democratic time of the budget debate! To weaken them, by strengthening the Government's control over the agenda! To weaken them, by devoting a chamber of civil society – this economic, social and environmental council of the new world – which would lead to a deconsideration of the National Assembly. I am no doubt one of the best places to talk about it: what is the democratic legitimacy of associations, trade unions and employers' representatives to teach the nation's elected representatives who derive their legitimacy from universal suffrage? For several months now, a huge destabilization campaign has targeted the parliamentary power. We parliamentarians would in turn be incompetent, ineffective, overpaid, corrupt! The proposals of the President of the Republic fuel this totally irresponsible movement and participate in it. [[Applause on a few benches]] [[Same movements]] Accrediting the idea that parliamentarians would be too numerous and initially concerned about the defence of small electoral interests poses great dangers to our democratic system and to the balance of our institutions. Those who simultaneously defend large constituencies and proportional voting do not know France, nor the subtlety of its historical and geographical construction. The decision you made, Prime Minister, to create inhumane ridings, twice as large as the current ridings, will narrow the link between the nation and the elected ones. From time to time, in France, local MPs and senators have played a major role in ensuring a balanced representation of the country and in softening its jacobine and centralizing tendency. With this reform, you are making the country take the path of a technocratic power, away from the ground and cut off from the realities! This is the natural inclination of the Macron State. [[Applause]] The current President of the Republic is, however, only a link in the long history of France. Even if he doubts it – and because he doubts it – it is good to remind him that quality, competent and patriotic French have governed our country before him, and that quality, competent and patriotic French will govern him after him! That is why we solemnly ask him not to take the risk of risky institutional developments. That is why we ask him to abandon the reform of the method of voting in the general elections. [[Applause on many benches]] The founding fathers of the Fifth Republic were very hesitant to constitutionalize the two-round single-member majority voting system. It has taken little time for it to be included in our Constitution. The time has no doubt come to constitutionalize it, as this method of voting guarantees government stability. It is, in truth, the second keystone of the institutions of the Fifth Republic! [[Applause on many benches]] By introducing the election of certain Members of Parliament on a proportional basis, you place the worm in the institutional fruit. You would make a foolish decision at the very moment when proportional voting produces political situations of great confusion in Italy and Germany, and even in Spain. In conscience, and because the Constitution transcends us, we must subscribe to a simple idea: the reforms proposed above the French, without consulting them, will drag the regime on a bad slope. Moreover, the same deconstruction undertaking is at work in your policy towards local authorities, Prime Minister: a policy contrary to the powerful historical trend prevailing since 1982; a policy that suffocates local freedoms; In short, a blind policy that supposedly well-crafted, well-trained and living brains in Paris or major cities can impose their vision of the world on an entire country. [[Vif applause – Hued on several benches]] If only one example had to be taken to characterize this blindness, mention should be made of the arbitrary decision to require the French to drive at 80 km/h on the departmental roads. What is shocking is your refusal to listen to the actors on the ground, and often your contempt for them. What you see as courage is in fact an arrogance. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, macroism is first and foremost a jactance. Many of us have severely judged President Hollande with regard to the exercise of his office. After the moment when we could have believed that Mr Macron was incarnating him by giving a good image of France on the international stage, the time has come to say that the President of the Republic is increasingly worried about our compatriots. [["Yes! » on a few benches]] [["To Fillon! » on several benches]] To which other President of the Republic would we have forgiven shameful words and staged deploring the "crazy money" that our social protection system costs? What other President of the Republic would have been forgiven for considering that some of our fellow citizens are nothing? Who would have been forgiven? [[Exclaims]] [[Vif applause on many benches]] What other President of the Republic would have been forgiven for the dismissal of a great military leader? What other President of the Republic would we forgive for increasing the CSG of our pensioners by 25%, overtaxing gasoline and sacrificing middle classes tax while abolishing the exit tax? What other President of the Republic would have shown such indulgence in such a dangerous and naive policy in terms of migration policy, security and the protection of the French against terrorism? [[Applause on many benches]] Most of our European partners have already given up their indulgence to a President of the Republic, who has shown that he is more anxious to set himself up than to defend France's place on the international stage. The French who have never given up an inch of land to the macronist sirens, and those who return, understand that the "at the same time" is a lure that does not work. They understand that our country, this great democratic country, needs a left as well as a right that assumes itself, aware that it has been able to disappoint but proud of the values that underlie it, and not for a few days or for a year, but for decades! [[Applause on many benches]] We are this opposition, which is the guardian of the Gaullist heritage, which will not bend in the face of a technocratic power! We are this parliamentary opposition, which bears less and less the character and attitudes of a man who himself, in a flash of lucidity, acknowledged on February 14th that he is the fruit of "a break-in".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u15	That's a waullist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u16	[[Exclaims]] He's the one who said it! Because he's the result of a break-in, he'll probably leave as he did. [[Vif applause on many benches. – Several members of Congress rise and applaud]] In 1958, the French chose their constitution. It was the world before. In 2018, we are about to change the balance of our institutions in a very undemocratic self-government. I sincerely prefer the world before, the world where our heads of state had the courage to consult the French. The Constitution is their constitution. It does not belong to any of us, to Mr Macron, nor to anyone else. Its duty is to submit such profound evolution to the approval of the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u17	Mr Patrick Kanner, for the Socialist and Republican Group of the Senate, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u18	Mr.President of Congress, Mr.President of the Senate, Mr.President of the Republic – wherever you are! – Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, July is the month of the Government's assessment. This was decided by the President of the Republic, whose congress is also the major hearing. There is no question here of whether or not to renew his mandate – this is not the meaning of our institutions. However, this congress is an opportunity to listen and evaluate the President of the Republic, in the eyes of the French. Announced during his campaign, this annual meeting – which could take place at the opening of the ordinary session of Parliament – is an institutional innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u19	I hear those who criticize her, in the name of the regime change that she would involve. However, we are given the opportunity to express ourselves and, unlike others, we seize it. But this meeting between the legitimacy of the popular vote of the President and the national sovereignty of Parliament is of interest only if the exercise does not turn into a moment of pure communication. Despite your absence during our statements, I outline the hope, Mr. President, that you will accept the remarks made by the representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u20	Moreover, the time has come to change; The constitutional reform that you have undertaken shows this, and it is not the exercise of the day that worries me the most in all these innovations. You have retained some good ideas for grooming the Constitution, but fortunately the Assembly, and soon the Senate, have come to your aid to strengthen the meaning of this constitutional reform – on the suppression of the word "race", on the protection of the environment or on equality between women and men! Let us also hope that the debate in the National Assembly in the coming days will confirm the failed act, if I may say so, of the Law Committee, which has rightly abolished attacks on the right of expression and amendment of parliamentarians. This is crucial to us. The Socialist and Republican Group of the Senate will hold its place and will not forget, unlike your majority, the necessary democratic renovation of our fundamental text, which must give more weight to the citizens in the framework of the law factory. [[Applause on many benches]] [[Protests on several benches]] But most of all, I want to point out a terrible contradiction that's coming to grips with each other. You have made equality between women and men a central topic in your quinquennium: so much the better. But while the majority of the Assembly has strengthened this equality in constitutional reform, you are about to reduce parity as no one has ever done in our political history. All the studies show that your reform of voting methods, coupled with the decline in the number of parliamentarians, will weaken the position of women in Parliament. In our country, political parity has never progressed without constraints of the law. We have strengthened the position of women in politics, you are weakening it by your reform. But let's go back to the balance sheet. In this first year of quinquennium, you have also undertaken a number of reforms. You have chosen, in your speech, to focus on your international and European action. For my part, I wish to return more broadly to your action with regard to your original triptych: to liberate, to protect, to unite. As far as freedom is concerned, we have seen! From the time of the finance law, your tax policy in favor of the richest has earned you a label. We, together with my group, have fought against some of your measures, particularly the questioning of the solidarity tax on wealth, the ISF, and the weakening of the taxation of capital. We will fight in the same spirit the end of the exit tax, because tax policy cannot always be made for those who already have everything. Your policy has degraded our country's revenues, forcing you to new economies, while the accounts are just returning to balance thanks to the balance sheet you inherited. This policy has reinvigorated the feeling of fiscal injustice of the middle classes. But it doesn't have any real effects on the real economy, which slows down again as you talk about releasing energy. We wanted France to be better for five years; With your policy, you want the French who are doing well to get even better. To release again, to release always: yes, we have seen this policy, and we fear to see it again in the PACTE law, which arrives at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u22	We acknowledge the honesty of warning you before what you would do next. But you promised a balance: free, but also protect. I will quote here Laurent Joffrin who, on July 6, wrote: "in these times of circenses, dot de panem". I hear the language elements of the ministers on social policy that would be carried out; The most beautiful of the measures would be the reduction in the number of pupils per class in the priority education area: this is perhaps the most beautiful of the measures, but the most beautiful because the only new one! Where's your social policy? You will certainly tell me about the increase in the wages of the assets by the game of the reductions in social contributions – a positive idea whose ambition was reduced by the budgetary constraint, with a lag to October for a full effect, and above all by the exclusion of the officials from the measure, when you had promised them during the campaign that they would benefit from it. A good idea, then, but an unfinished idea. Will pension reform be the alpha and omega of your social policy? We are in favour of reformist ambition, especially if it helps to better protect small pensions and improve the rights of those who have long careers. But we'll be vigilant. [[Applause on many benches]] [[Applause on several benches]] Where is this protection policy? We were announced a plan to combat poverty. He's been postponed. For our part, we will defend the creation of a basic income, on the basis of the proposals of the socialist departments, so that the excluded and those with low incomes are better protected by automatic aid and systematic support. We will also defend one principle: to fight poverty, it is not enough to help those living in poverty get out of it. Every effort must also be made to ensure that those who are not poor today, those who belong to the middle classes, do not become poor tomorrow under the influence of your policy. A year after your election, this pillar of protection is therefore under way and raises far too many questions, when we have far too much certainty about the liberal aspect of your policy. It is important to fight against those who defend the dogma of the decline in public spending, which always affects the greatest number of people. For our part, we want a fair distribution of efforts and wealth, in order to fight against social determinism and the reproduction, from generation to generation, of poverty. Finally, your promise for France had a third pillar that many forget: you promised to unite the French behind a national ambition, behind a republican project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u23	It's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u24	And here, Mr President, I think we have a serious divergence. Many have heard you speak of this unity well about after the trials of our nation; I say it all the more since it was in this room that the Congress met on 16 November 2015. Our nation needs to reconnect with this unity. But I do not put, we do not put everything and anything behind this word: for us socialists and republicans, the unity of the nation passes through the Republic, and through all that composes it; In the first place, secularism. Secularity is consecrated by the Republic and its first guarantor must be the President of the Republic. And that is where we have a serious disagreement with your speeches and actions, Mr President. [[Exclaims on several benches]] [[Applause on many benches]] In your address to the bishops in April, you repeatedly challenged the foundations of secularism by calling Catholics to political expression as Catholics, not only as citizens. You spoke of a damaged link to repair between the State and the Church; But what connection are you talking about under the 1905 law? If it is a question of reconnecting with a reactionary part of France that would have been injured by marriage for all, therefore by republican equality, it will be without us. On the contrary, we will tell you that France must go to the end of equality by allowing all women to resort to medically assisted procreation, the LDC, in our country. [[Applause on many benches]] No conviction may be greater than the law of the Republic. We solemnly say to you, Mr. President: in order for our republican nation to live, there is no need for the sap of any religion. We will make our national unity live by republican values, by the energy of citizens as citizens. It is the sap of the Republican commitment, which gives life to our beautiful nation, and no matter the intimate convictions, beliefs or origins that motivate this commitment to the Republic. We want proselytism, yes: that of secularism, a tool for culture, tolerance, empathy and acceptance of otherness. We would also like to see you resume dialogue with the social authorities of our country. The unity of the nation will involve dialogue with unions, associations, and communities. It must be noted, however, that this dialogue is not working; For the past year, we feel that intermediate bodies are only considered as a brake on your action. What a regression for our social democracy! Mr President, know how to dialogue before deciding; know how to accept the contradiction. Knowing how to listen, knowing how to doubt, is not a weakness; This is what strengthens decisions, and that is what pushes national cohesion forward. So you came to Congress, Mr. President of the Republic, to present us with a milestone in your quinquennium. For us, one thing is necessary: the account is not there, the balance promised is not there. Of course, a quinquennium is five years, not one. Mr President, you will always find us at your side to accompany the reforms of social progress and the defence of the Republic. But we will also always be there to combat measures that benefit only those who already have everything. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, reform can be unfair; Reform is not a value in itself, and its outcome must be judged. We remain the left-wing government, carrying a promise of harmonious transformation of society; We want to ask the most affluent to accompany the modest, never discouraging the middle classes. We have social democracy at heart; We fight the wild runoff, the one that sweeps away those who are on the ground floor but who always spare those who are on the floors. We still believe in a moderating and regulating state of the market, not the other way around; We believe in a state that defends decentralization - providence, that which has been undergoing a period of penance for several months. We value emancipation through popular education, youth engagement and a certain idea of the word "sharing", which will never be the "more and more". [[Vif applause on many benches]] Mr President, like you, we fear this despair that leads to populism, this isolation that leads to nationalism, this ignorance that leads to totalitarianism. Can you assure us that the policy you have been carrying out for the past year preserves France and Europe from these three threats? That's our requirement. We are committed to being vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u25	Mr Marc Fesneau, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement of the National Assembly, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u26	President of the Congress, President of the Senate, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, in this historic place of union and disunity of our country, we embarked on the first stage of this quinquennium and we made a commitment to the nation to reform France in order to lead it on the path of regained confidence, reconstruction and reconciliation. There is no need to recall at length what the foundations of the political upheaval of spring 2017 were: they must simply serve as a compass for the time to come. The French expressed the desire for an unprecedented gathering, renewal and appeasement of the public debate. Above all, they asked that, through these exceedances, we tackle their problems and their realities in concrete terms; They wanted the reform, beyond words, to be on the rendezvous. They also wanted France to regain its place in the concert of nations and to hold its special place; The President of the Republic had to represent the pride found in an entire country. [[Applause on many benches]] [[Vif applause on many benches]] For the past year, the parliamentary majority and the Government have been at work. Too much, some will say; But given the urgency of the situation, no one, and certainly not the French citizens, could have understood that we were complacent, in power, in the comfort of those who believe they have time before them when the emergency is finally everywhere. Economic emergency, unemployment emergency, territorial emergency, health emergency, education emergency, budgetary emergency, migration emergency, environmental and climate emergency, security emergency, European emergency: all these emergencies are the result of years of inaction, of sterilization by the caricatural debate between the blocs, of inability to explain, of ease of leave and laissez-faire. I do not know any of the subjects discussed here that we cannot objectively say should have been dealt with years or even decades ago. None appeared in the year, and that is why there is an urgent need. I do not say this for those who preceded us; I have no interest in looking for scapegoats, even from his opponents – it's too easy. We are ultimately all, as representatives of the nation and citizens, jointly and severally responsible for this situation. That is why we must collectively seek solutions. [[Vif applause on many benches]] There is a majority, there are oppositions and it is healthy and vital in democracy. But we have a common responsibility: for the opposition, to serve the general interest as well, not to propose the opposite of what it did when it ruled or what it would do if it ruled, and not to give in to the comfortable or dangerous demagogy that comes back to you in boomerang when the citizens take you in the words of ease. As for the majority, it must not believe that we are leaving a blank page; We must learn from the failures of our predecessors and defend a simple but absolutely necessary requirement: to remain faithful to the promise of 2017, to remain lucid on the pitfalls encountered and to remain always attentive to the French, even if what they would have to tell us would not always sound pleasantly in our ears. This requirement of success for our country therefore obliges us, collectively, to continue the transformations undertaken by the Government. [[Applause on many benches]] We have often heard politicians or commentators say – to express it quickly – that after "liberation" it was necessary to engage him quickly "protect". But I am finally sceptical of the idea that there would be, on the one hand, the need to liberate our economy in order to return to the path of growth and, on the other, the need to protect to ensure the cohesion of the country. I never believed in a border or even an incompatibility between these two objectives. Both feed and combine, and that's the balance we have to hold on to. For us, work is one of the essential elements of social integration. It is a fundamental right and we know how the destructuring of the ideal and of French cohesion is linked to mass unemployment. What family, what child, what youth, what social structure can withstand unemployment and, more importantly, long-term unemployment? Which society is not permanently undermined by this lack of hope and prospects? And how many territories rightly live in de-industrialisation or agricultural crises as a sign of their deep and irreversible downgrading? [[Applause on many benches]] The crisis in the territories we live in comes from far away. And hearing some of our opposition colleagues earlier, I thought they were not short of air. Who has not experienced this crisis cannot measure the effect of the disappearance of the last trade, of the last peasants, of the last industries, of the last doctor, of the last public services on millions of French and thousands of elected officials who, powerless and without seeing any possibility of rebounding in the medium term, witness their departure from the world, and until they forget. [[Vif applause on many benches]] This despair is real, despite those who exploit it by replacing the necessary local democracy with local demagogy and territorial opposition. It is the cry of those who see modernity as a backwards or a regression for them. The economy, growth and attractiveness of the country are decisive levers, not so much because we would be the supporters of I do not know any economic model or philosophy, but because they are levers to hope, integrate, and find its place in the national collective. We have been at the meeting for this purpose. And, similarly, there is no society that cannot continue to develop and prosper sustainably without access to knowledge and education, access to culture, intergenerational solidarity, real integration; without the ability to reach out to those who experience road accidents, to whom life has not always smiled, to those who do not come from beautiful neighbourhoods, from the most prosperous territories or who have not had the chance to have a stable home or environment. Finally, there is no sustainable and prosperous society without the feeling of justice and the means given to everyone to find their place and to climb the ranks, preserving the foundations of what is French history – solidarity, universality, equitably shared effort, the reward of the effort made, the state of providence updated – without making the past a dead end, but without refraining from questioning the real effectiveness of the arrangements. Our project must keep this course, invariably, without allowing itself to diverge from this final horizon, without allowing itself to be stifled by the mere idea that symbolic measures should balance and counterbalance the weight of either; without abandoning the ideal of society that is ours: a society that is not always harder to the weak and easier to the lucky or the strong; without opposing each other because, for us, we need each other to really make society. It is this model that we need to rebuild, in the first sense of the word. And in each of the texts we will have to examine, we will have to ensure that all this is done with the objective, the idea that it is a whole, that there is no prosperous economy that does not serve the collective and effective solidarity that is not liberating. For the past year, together with our colleagues in the La République group, we have been at the meeting of the promises made to the French on certain subjects: simplification of labour law, law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, future law for the growth and transformation of enterprises, law for the balance of commercial relations in the agricultural sector and a healthy and sustainable diet, rail reform. And we can add measures that, without always coming under the law, are real changes, profound changes. I would like to mention the renewed ambition of national education, the remainder of which is zero for essential health expenditure or the plan to combat the territorial digital divide. That too is social justice. This is a first step in restoring trust. Do what we said we'd do; It seems simple but, in fact, it's quite new. Is that enough? Certainly not, but without this starting point, nothing would be possible, because the confidence regained also depends on the pedagogy of reform, that is, on the meaning given to things and the understanding by the French of the concrete realities resulting from our work as legislators. To show the global project, to show and demonstrate how our reforms will change the lives of each and every one of us, to give flesh to our project, to speak at the heart of the French, is the whole challenge we have before us. In the world as it is, reason and rationality are not enough. In the world we live in, sometimes so technical and so technocratic, we need more empathy. This empathy and pedagogy must oppose the demagogy of time. Similarly, we must oppose the requirement of our attitudes and projects to the ease of immediacy and the foam of things. Oppose the collective pride of who we are and what we French and Europeans carry to the temptations of retreat that threaten. And we must continue the work of renewing our democracy. This is the whole meaning of the institutional reform that we will examine from tomorrow, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic made last year before the same Congress. There are those who have decided to stay with the initial assumptions, and whose conviction is already forged. We are among those who believe that our responsibility as constituents is to make this reform a reform in the service of the regained power of Parliament and a more assertive recognition of the territories. A parliament that is listened to is a parliament that serves democracy, because it plays its useful role as an interface between the citizens and those who govern them. And it is a representative democracy, restored in its foundations. From territories that are respected in their diversity and stakeholders in the national adventure, this is also the challenge we face through this reform. At this very particular moment in our history, which sees national fractures echo international fractures, which marks the return of force as an instrument of political will and populism as a means of gaining power, we must find a narrow path towards what the constituents of 1789, who on that same day met for the first time, had hoped for our country above all. Sew and sew the torn unit tunic; Weaving and re-establishing the social and political link, by establishing freedom between men; Inventing and reinventing the rule and consent, the unity of a people, the solidarity, the right, the right representation, a fair democracy, adapted to times and customs: this is the ambition that we must nurture, with the humility of those who know that everything comes not only from them but that they must, with determination, take their part. [[Vif applause on many benches. – Several members of Congress rise and applaud]] That is the voice that the Group of the Democratic Movement, on whose behalf I am speaking today, wishes to make known.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u27	Mr Hervé Marseille, for the Group of the Centralist Union of the Senate, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u28	Mr.President of Congress, Mr.President of the Senate, Mr.Prime Minister, Ministers, Members of Parliament and Senators, we have been in Congress for the second time since last year. The President has just announced that he will table an amendment, allowing him to be present during the debate and to respond to our statements, which I welcome. However, it is worth recalling that the President is accountable to the French, not to Parliament. The quinquennium that opened last year resembles the 18th-century planospheres. On these maps of the world, which everyone has in mind, we see the contours of the continents, but, inside, everything is almost land unknown. Around the continents is the programme of candidate Emmanuel Macron. Only one year after his election, this programme has largely begun to be implemented. This is the first thing we can put to the credit of the President: he keeps his promises. This has not always been the case. The second thing we put to his credit is the very nature of the promises kept. For the past year, significant and long-delayed reforms have been undertaken. The Centralist Union Group supported them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u30	This is the case with the ordinances, which have relaxed the labour code to give companies the room for manoeuvre they need today. Similarly, we have voted for the reform of access to university because, on this subject, the Government has not limited itself to taking technical measures. He had the audacity to set the stage for a deeper change. Finally, the new railway pact is also a substantial reform. The European directives on opening up rail to competition had to be transposed. But, with the Senate, we have gone further: we have reconciled economic efficiency with land use planning and the adaptation of social gains. [["That's right! » and applause on several benches]] One year after Emmanuel Macron's election as President of the Republic, there is therefore a record. We could not say the same at the end of the previous quinquennium. Beyond the legislative record of the Head of State, there is a third element that we put to his credit. With him, we won in international incarnation. France has a new seat. It once again arouses the listening and respect of our foreign partners, as well as the interest and confidence of investors. And the adornment of the economic situation finally allows us to fall within the European budgetary criteria. So the quinquennium started pretty well. So well and so fast, by the way, that he seems to be running out of breath already. "What now? Are we tempted to ask. After a year of power, the executive seems to have burned many of its ships. This is where we enter the unknown land. By bringing together the Congress today, the President wanted to reassure us of the meaning of his action. He has just set many goals for the Government. Nevertheless, there are many signs of premature shortness of breath in the quinquennium, too many to be written off. We share the Government's commitment to improving the conditions of the poorest, by fighting unemployment first. Yes, precariousness and inequality will only be reduced by reviving the economy, increasing the employment rate and improving the efficiency of the education system. This strategy, however, has limitations. The restriction of the scope of the ISF, the introduction of the flat tax, the abolition of the exit tax, the reduction of the corporate tax, the increase in the CSG on pensions and even the reduction of housing subsidies were all measures that could have fuelled social concern. But criticism is not just social, it is also territorial, several speakers said it before me. After the drop in allocations, the abolition of the housing tax and 120,000 assisted contracts, the closure of primary classes in the countryside, not to mention the fears that remain about the maintenance of small railway lines, that is little to say that the rural territories feel the victims of this beginning of quinquennium. This has been stressed on a number of occasions. At the end of the constitutional review, even the representation of the territories will be reduced. In this Chamber, almost 280 seats will have disappeared: they will no longer be occupied. Even from a legislative point of view, the drift is perceptible. After the interesting texts I mentioned, we come up with hollow bills, for example on the manipulation of information – fake news – the mobile phone at school or the disappointing and delayed announcements on the audiovisual media. Should we be surprised at this shortness of breath? No, because the machine is overheating because the Government has tackled too many subjects at the same time. From this point of view, the number of texts that have just been proposed to us will not cool down the government machinery. But also because everything seems to go back to the top of the state. Now, when everything goes up, there's thrombosis. This is the only line of force emerging from the whole of government action, that of strengthening concentration. When we touch paritarianism, when we restrict the means of local authorities and when we reduce parliamentary representation, what do we do, if not recentralize power? [[Vif applause on many benches]] The fact that tomorrow, after the constitutional reform, there will be more members of the prefectural corps than parliamentarians, so more representatives of the state than elected ones, should question us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u31	That's nice for the local elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u32	And if government action is a bit of a step, it is probably also because the French have not fully discerned the objectives to be achieved. We need an ambition: the President has just redefined its contours. Of course, in the field of education, which is a fundamental subject, especially when it comes to tackling the root causes of poverty, the government project is emerging: to give everyone the same opportunity at the beginning, i.e. in kindergarten and primary school, to be able to orientate and select from the higher level. [[Mrs. Valérie Rabault applauds]] [[Applause on many benches]] But elsewhere, where's the heading? Selling France to Versailles and Davos does not make an economic policy, privatizing the ADP group does not make an industrial policy, removing the housing tax does not make a fiscal policy, and benefiting from growth does not make a policy of reorganizing public accounts. On this last point, we remain on our hunger. Clearly, the budget line of the executive is not that of expenditure control, since expenditure is increasing. We're not talking about debt anymore. However, it has not disappeared by enchantment: it is still there, limiting our room for manoeuvre and undermining the credibility of public action. The constitutional reform project is emblematic: reducing the number of parliamentarians is not an end in itself. The important thing is that tomorrow they have more control. Shortening one of the segments of the law factory by a few days is a good thing if, behind it, the pace of publication of the implementing decrees follows. The good news is that the lack of action by the executive can come from Parliament. Of course, the National Assembly and the Senate are not intended to be registration chambers. They are there to inspire, accompany and control the action of the executive. This is the map we will be playing in the next discussion of the constitutional texts. [[Applause on a few benches]] As long as our proposals are compatible with its ambition, we are betting that the Government is open to discussion. Our guidelines are simple: respect for Parliament's rights and institutional balances, so necessary in a Europe where populism is progressing; respect for the representation of the territories so mistreated; respect for the primacy of political will over the government of judges. We cannot envisage that, tomorrow, any public action should be subject to the will of the judges responsible for prioritizing between the multiple imprecise incantations of our founding text. Without Parliament, we will not reform France, nor will we relaunch Europe. More than ever, given the German situation, the fate of the Union depends on that of France. Perhaps this quinquennium is the last chance, both for our country and for the European Union. Everything suggests that, if we fail today, France could tomorrow know the fate of Italy, and Europe, flying in flames. Since the Treaty of Rome, European integration has never been so threatened. The very sustainability of Europe according to Brexit is called into question by the rise of identity fears. To succeed therefore also means to bring Europe out of the deadlock. The European crisis, which now coincides with that of migrants, is acute. But, as in the past, we will only overcome it with bold proposals. President Emmanuel Macron campaigned on the theme of "Europe that protects" – the formula suits us. A Europe that protects is a Europe that coordinates its migration policies. As such, although the 29 June agreement is still a fragile and unclear compromise, it is encouraging. It proves that Europe still has resources, but it will take more for it to become the Europe that protects. A Europe that protects is also a Europe with an assumed model, an increased budget, harmonised taxation and an army of its own – a Europe that Simone Veil called for. Even if a fine tribute has just been paid to him at the Pantheon, the best way to honor Simone Veil's memory is to relaunch the European construction. [[Applause on many benches]] Prime Minister, the President of the Republic has opened many projects and set many objectives. You now have a heavy responsibility to chart the way and convince us, through proposals and actions, that the generous ambitions that the President has put forward are well founded.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u33	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde, speaking for the IDU Group, said that he was independent of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u34	[[Exclaims]] [[Applause on a few benches]] [[Applause on several benches]] Mr President of Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this is the second time since his election that the President of the Republic has convened Parliament in Congress. If this event, which the President wants to make traditional, has once again aroused controversy for several days, it is undoubtedly because this possibility has only been offered for ten years by the Constitution and the exercise still struggles to find its place in the Republican gesture. It is so true that the media echo that reaches the French makes more room for those who decide not to come than for those who choose to express themselves in it. And I know what I'm talking about: last year, I felt that the President of the Republic should not speak before the Prime Minister's general policy speech. Since this is now a kind of speech about the state of the Union, it is appropriate for us to live up to this meeting, perhaps by looking a little further than the horizon. I expected to regret that the President of the Republic could not answer us, but he had just asked the Government to prepare an amendment that would allow him to be present next year. I am particularly pleased, Mr Prime Minister, that the IDU, Act and Independent Group has proposed such an amendment in the Committee on Laws and that it has been rejected by the majority who have now heard the right thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u35	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u36	In the meantime, it is to you, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, and to the whole parliamentary majority that we will address ourselves by taking stock of this first year and by expressing our concerns for those to come. For even if we do not belong to your majority, we sincerely wish your success because it presupposes that of France. This is why the IDU, Action and Independent Group's guideline is to support you when you are on the right track and to oppose when you derail. In our view, after the political earthquake of 2017, that is how we can be useful to our country and respect the will of the French to see political leaders change their attitude, ending sterile confrontations and false oppositions. In short, we believe that the French expect us to have real politics and to judge your action on a case-by-case basis, as they do each day. We know that this is not part of the media business in which everyone is supposed to play an agreed role in advance of blind support or opposing everything. But it does not matter to us, because the democratic debate must, in our view, raise the level of civic awareness of citizens, and not respond to the objurations of social networks or to the injunctions of information so permanent that it confuses the accessory raised to the rank of event and the essential rallied at the level of anecdote. The divisions of yesterday are no longer those of today as they have been upset by globalization. From now on, our political debate is split in two. On the one hand, there are those who see with fear the new world, the true, in which globalization makes all countries more dependent on each other every day, inexorably reducing national room for manoeuvre. They want to make it seem that our country would be stronger by retreating to itself, by crouching on its past, by isolating itself from the general movement of the planet with the illusion of protecting itself from it. On the other hand, and this is something that is common to us, Prime Minister, there are those who, like us, understand that in the face of this evolution of the world, we must choose to profoundly transform our economic and social organization but also political, in order to maintain enough strength to remain free of our choices and ways of life. It is through this prism that we can subscribe to the many statements of the President of the Republic that advocate transformation and emancipation. At the international level, first of all, we welcome the energy deployed by the executive to restore France's place and role in this world that has become multipolar, where a few major continental powers are competing at the expense of all other small states. This is where Europe's major challenge lies, the only level which, provided that it has greater unity, is able to effectively defend the national interests of the countries that make up it in order to weigh against the great countries of the world and even against these huge multinationals born of new technologies and whose power exceeds that of many States. A more federated Europe is our only chance to influence international relations in order to protect our interests, our ways of life, and our vision of social organization. Therefore, if we support the European commitment of the President of the Republic, we invite you to go further by proposing the transfer of competences to the European level for which national policies show their ineffectiveness every day. This is the case of border protection, immigration, industrial and research strategies, the fight against terrorism and major trafficking, defence that must become less dependent on the United States, the energy transition that could increase our collective independence, or the development aid of Africa of which we are the only neighbours – I was pleased to hear the President speak about this major issue. If Africa goes wrong, we will be the first to suffer. The forthcoming European elections will be a unique opportunity for our fellow citizens to say if they want to make Europe a real shield against the dangers and challenges of the world. In domestic politics, the issues are numerous and complex, and the time allocated to us will not allow me to address them all calmly. [[Applause on a few benches]] In short, I would say that a first period has come to an end in which necessary, useful and long-delayed reforms, such as the recasting of the labour code, the reduction of corporate taxes, the reduction of social charges, the single and flat-rate levy on capital income, the amputation of a counterproductive wealth tax, the transformation of the SNCF, the reconfiguration of primary education, the determined attempt to reduce our deficit, which has been irresponsible for years. In this first period, we deplored the inequity of the CSG's increase: there is no reason for pensioners alone to finance our country's competitiveness. These reforms are based on a logic: freeing up our country's productive capacity to restore competitiveness and create employment. We share this logic summarized in the expression "primière de cordée", dear to the Head of State. But, as we repeat here, in order for the French to adopt it, it is up to you to guarantee to each of them that the first ropes will be useful to the whole rope. That is the condition of the legitimacy of these moneys and of your policy. The Head of State tried to do so in his speech, we are waiting for action. I do not agree with the cartoons that can be made about this, but we must be clear: at this stage, the effects of your policy benefit some and ignore others. The most favoured are even more so, which could be acceptable if all our fellow citizens were also winners. Today, however, this is not the case: the poorest people remain so. The Head of State has just mentioned some proposals. We expect to know the contours and, above all, the actualization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u37	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u38	In the first round of the presidential election, the President of the Republic was chosen by the globalised France, the one who is doing well, who knows how to take advantage of the changes in the world, the one who, in the end, does not need politics and who expects it only not to be hindered. But I'm warning you, this France is a minority. And it is because your policy gives the impression of serving only that France that the French have passed in a year from hope to doubt. Whatever his talents and determination, the Head of State cannot create a true community of destiny if those living in the suburbs and rural territories cannot claim the same future as those who have the means to live in the heart of the metropolises. There is another France in our suburbs and in rural areas, which has more inhabitants and which really needs public policies to hope to have equal opportunities. It was this France that entrusted you with the keys of the country after the second round of the presidential election, because it still wanted to believe in the Republic and its promise of reward for merit rather than perpetuation of acquired situations. It is this France which, in front of the pyramid of the Louvre, the brand new head of state promised to take into account. It is this France which sees nothing coming and which is impatient by seeing the difficulties accumulated: medical desertification, a hospital system with breathlessness, the insecurity which continues to grow, the public services which are moving away, the transports which are deficient. It is this France which, if nothing changes for it, could fail in a forthcoming presidential election. This fragile and tired France does not expect a poverty plan, it wants it to be guaranteed equal opportunities. Fractures are multiple, intersect, accumulate and increase. You are not solely responsible for them, you have not created them, but they can all be mitigated, if not absorbed by the will of the public authorities. We regret the bad signals sent to the suburbs that are the refusal to build new public policies...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u40	... to restore republican equality in these neighbourhoods – I know them well – that concentrate all poverty and in which, contrary to a widespread lie, the resources allocated by the state remain inferior to those allocated to the more favoured neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u41	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u42	It is also a bad signal to the rural world that the delay in setting up the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories which we proposed to you last autumn, while the rural world despairs of being heard by the power.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u44	[[Applause on a few benches]] To these territories as well as to the overseas territories that the President of the Republic has not mentioned, we call on you to restore prospects through ambitious public policies that guarantee their place in the Republic. This is what we expect above all from the second period that begins, otherwise your speech on emancipation will remain a hollow theory for a majority of French. We also expect, Mr. Prime Minister, that you may open fewer construction sites but that they will be completed and will actually lead to structural and balanced changes. The draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and a healthy and sustainable diet, which has not yet been adopted, does not guarantee, at this stage, the rebalancing of the balance of forces between farmers and large areas. The reform of housing assistance, which is necessary, has so far only resulted in the impoverishment of social donors. The vocational training project would be worth finding a better balance of responsibilities between employers and regions. In order to move quickly, you have freed yourself from the partners that we believe are essential to truly transform our country. Under the guise of so-called citizen consultations, which ultimately have no influence, you have too often pursued a solitary policy. This is the greatest danger facing the majority, especially when it is absolute: to listen to no one else, to lock themselves in its logic instead of hearing the differences in order to better lead the country into its transformation, that of taking any reflection, questioning, alerting or proposal for a critique, instead of making honey and correcting the trajectory for better success. In too many cases, you decide – you are not the first to do so – from Paris, from the ministries, regardless of the intermediary bodies, the associations, the local elected representatives, and the parliamentarians whom the President of the Republic has said in this forum want to associate with his action. All of you, however, are indispensable to the success of France. Listen to them, hear us because we all serve the same ideal. We each have our stone to bring to this collective ambition, that which must enable all our fellow citizens to flourish and emancipate themselves, whatever their initial position in the social system and their place of life; which should enable France to weigh in Europe, and Europe to weigh in the world, strong in our history and values. [[Applause on many benches]] Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that would be your greatest success, the only one that matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u45	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Claude Requier, for the Group of the European Democratic and Social Rally of the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u46	Mr President of Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the President of the Republic has just presented to Parliament the policy which the Government will have to implement under the authority of the Prime Minister. This is the very nature of the Fifth Republic, whether it be deplored or welcomed, after sixty years of almost Darwinian evolution which has allowed it to adapt constantly. [[Applause on a few benches]] [[Same movements]] It is also a new use of article 18 of the Constitution which is affirmed before our eyes: that in which the head of State addresses himself directly and regularly to the national representation. If, according to our institutions, he is not accountable to us, because he has to do so only before the people, my group, in all its diversity, attaches great importance to this solemn address to the elected representatives of the nation. We can even talk about "a speech on the state of the Republic", outlining the perspectives on which the legislator will have to pronounce himself. With this in mind, we do not share the choice of some elected representatives not to be present today. To be a parliamentarian is to be honoured to be able to debate, which is part of the very essence of representative democracy, more importantly in a balanced bicameralism. For our part, we are in favour of the Head of State taking the floor before Congress, listening to our debates and being able to answer questions from parliamentarians. The dialogue between the executive and the legislature, which is part of our conception of a modern and balanced parliamentarism, will thus be completed. But what brings us together today is first and foremost our unwavering commitment to our country and to our fellow citizens. Our vision of the future must be based on reality. This is even more true for us, senators, who are the representatives of local communities, often elected or former elected – non-accumulating mandates oblige – anchored in our territories, whose breaths we listen to. The President of the Republic has just described the course he has set. In the face of the decisions to be taken collectively, I recall what Pierre Mendès France said before the deputies on 3 June 1953, whose courage and self-denial are always references: "Governing is choosing, however difficult the choices are. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u48	Yes, we are faced with difficult choices that refer to our responsibility as elected representatives of the nation. Let's not steal! The Head of State has reminded us of this in watermark: the challenges we face are part of a complex era of intense and profound change, of unprecedented dangers that put our cohesion in tension. We thought we were safe from the turpitudes of the world, but the principle of reality caught up with us, sometimes at the price of the tragic, alas. What we took for certainties is shaken, and I think first of all of the achievements of European integration, which populism threatens with its simplistic ideology. [[Applause on a few benches]] For our group, the RDSE, which supports the European project up to its very name, it is urgent to put Jean Monnet's philosophy, namely that Europe does not co-align states, but aims to unite people, back to the heart of our actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u49	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u50	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u51	Perhaps we are too far from the European ideal. Perhaps we have also lost the informed consent of our fellow citizens, stretching the bond of trust. However, let us not forget that Europe will never be the source of our evils; On the contrary, it is the crucible of progress. As the President of the Republic has pointed out, the crises we are facing – the migration crisis, the fight against terrorism, the need for economic recovery, the fight against unemployment and social progress, the fight against global warming – will at least find a lasting response only at European level. The RDSE group is, of course, in this approach, as well as in this desire to reform, going beyond the old divides. We are proud to make live for a long time the synthesis of the principles inherent in the Republic, namely humanism, freedom, solidarity – which is not opposed to the previous one – or secularism, in short, to establish a bridge between the old and the new world! In these uncertain times, which see the Republic and its values challenged by certain members of the social body, certainly in a very minority way, we will be intransigent in defending our principles. Yes, we must name and attack at the root this evil which wants to instil itself in order to crack the unity and indivisibility of the Republic, namely the hatred of the other, of the difference, of the otherness and of the universal, a hatred which nourishes obscurantism and religious fanaticism and makes the bed of terrorism. As Édouard Herriot said,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u52	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u53	There's two Edwards!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u54	[[Applause on a few benches]] ... "Let us fight stupid hatred, the vast hatred, which has never been able to create anything." Let us make secularism the first bulwark to the divisions of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u56	The best answer to this is to keep our republican principles alive, starting with real equality among all citizens. We know how complex this task is, but the Government has addressed it, first in education, to enable our children to become enlightened, responsible and self-reliant citizens; then, in the name of equal opportunities, with regard to access to employment, regardless of the origin of each person; in the fight against poverty and insecurity; in the prevention and suppression of all forms of discrimination, including inequalities between women and men; or in the fight against territorial divides, so that no territory, urban or rural, metropolis or medium town, feels abandoned by the State and excluded from the march of progress, be it economic, social, cultural or digital. Making equality effective to respond to hatred is our duty as elected officials. We know that much has already been done, and I would like to greet him. Of course, there are still many construction sites. In this case, it is not a question of making reform an incantatory policy, which would fall back like a blow. Let us therefore be lucid: our democracy has long been in a crisis of representativeness; the link between citizens and elected officials has been dangerously distended; Abstention has never been so high. The future institutional reform cannot be abstract from this context, and we must restore confidence. But this one is not decreed. While the reform of our institutions is necessary to modernise the functioning of our democracy, it is not an end in itself: it is only a tool, at the service of our fellow citizens. It is therefore important to make the political decision more effective, transparent and better understood. That is why it is essential that the territories, which, in their diversity, make France, are precisely represented, so that their voices are heard. It is up to Parliament to embody the crucible where these voices mix, debate and deliberate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u58	It is also up to Parliament, in its institutional dialogue with the executive branch, to bring these voices into line with the law or to monitor the action of the Government. Our group will therefore address the reform of the institutions with the desire to build a renewed and modernized balance between the powers, with a Parliament that fully exercises its responsibilities. I have no doubt that the Senate will debate it, as always, with particular attention to the deepening of our rule of law. This is one of the virtues of balanced bicameralism, in which our group recognizes itself. [["Ah" on several benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, they say of our compatriots that they are among the most pessimistic in the world, except when the French team wins.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u59	What a talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u60	[[Applause on many benches]] Yet our country has many assets, and we should look forward with confidence. Let's twist our necks to the clichés, overcome our inertia and unite our will to act! The RDSE group will take its full part, with responsibility and benevolence, because, as Herriot once again said, "in a democracy, there is only a stable balance through the movement."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u61	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor for the New Left Group of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u62	Only one woman will speak this afternoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u63	This deserves to be stressed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u64	[[Applause on several benches]] Mr President of Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday, for the first time in our history, the Constitutional Council enshrined the "principle of fraternity" to declare contrary to the Constitution an article of the code of entry and residence of foreigners and the right of asylum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u66	For the first time, he recalled the scope of fraternity at the heart of our Republic explicitly: "It is clear that fraternity is a principle of constitutional value. For the first time, a decision of the guaranteeing authority of our Constitution is given in the name of fraternity. Yes, fraternity is a constitutional principle. Yes, it is inherent in what we, the French people, are since, here in Versailles, July 9, 1789 – two hundred and twenty-nine years ago to the day – the National Assembly proclaimed itself a Constituent National Assembly. Our rights are based on a triptych unique to the world: freedom, equality, fraternity. To shake one of these three pillars is to make the whole republican building crumble. Within our republican triptych, fraternity structures the relationship between the French and each other, beyond their place of life, their social class and their origins. She is the binder of the French model, her spine in a way. Fraternity is at the heart of our republican identity. Those who wish to ignore this principle will, in fact, place themselves outside our republican model.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u68	However, the choices made over the past year by the President of the Republic and his majority in the National Assembly led to questions about the real place given to fraternity. First "anti-fraternity" measure of the President of the Republic and the presidential majority: the increase of the CSG, which affects 8 million French pensioners,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u69	She's hitting everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u70	... with a puncture of 200 to 400 euros per year on average. Thus, in order to compensate for the State's lack of revenue, the Government has not hesitated to break the fraternity between the generations. Ask the traders in your territories, ladies and gentlemen: all of them will tell you that they are seeing a decline in the consumption of pensioners, which results in a decline in their own turnover. The reality is that the spiral of economic slowdown is on. Another example, this time of an anti-fraternity towards the territories: the dizzying rise in fuel taxes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u71	It's called ecology!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u72	...which strikes the rural territories with full force. This increase will hit above all those who do not have public transport services, i.e. the rural inhabitants. Prime Minister, let's do the exercise together: let's take the example of a household made up of two parents and two children, which, per year, is twenty full of 50 litres and heats up in domestic fuel oil – because there is no access to city gas everywhere in the country. The majority, your majority, increased the taxes to be paid from 800 euros in 2017 to 945 euros in 2018 – to which VAT must be added – and these will reach 1476 euros in 2022! It is an impoverishment that has never been seen that is starting for rural areas, whether they are households or businesses. Anti-fraternity towards the territories has also been practised at the expense of the overseas territories, which have not benefited from any measures in the last year. Another example, this time of an anti-fraternity against our youth: Parcoursup. On March 17, the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation stated: "No university candidate will receive a "no". Unfortunately, a few days later, the denial came from the site of his own ministry, which announced that some high school students would not receive a positive response.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u73	No luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u74	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u75	[["That's not true! » on several benches]] Since then, the reality has exceeded our fears: by 4 July, only 400,000 out of 665000 high school students have decided on their choice, and 150,000 have not received any proposals. Among those who received positive responses, assignments were made. It is also observed that university courses, which did not know any problems of place, were forced to select their students, often by means of opaque algorithms denounced by the teachers themselves. In Île-de-France, a criterion of the algorithm was to ensure that suburban high school students were excluded from certain training courses in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u77	[["That's not true! » on several benches]] As for the professional bachelors, they are the big losers of the operation, since many of them find themselves on the tile for the start of 2018. Finally, Parcoursup was a terrible instrument to destabilize the candidates for the baccalaureate: they found themselves on the floor of the tests without the slightest prospect of the future in the short term,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u78	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u79	[[Murmures]] ... including those who had good grades in their files. Also, Parcoursup has become the emblem of anti-fraternity in the world of higher education. Another example is the ELAN law, which is evolving in housing, development and digital technology, which is becoming the anti-fraternity in terms of mix. Your only goal has been to allow donors to sell 40,000 social housing units a year, even if they unblock all the tools of social mix. This could seriously aggravate the ghettoization of certain neighbourhoods, in disregard of our common objective, social cohesion. Finally, what about the "asylum and immigration" law, which sanctifies the detention of minors in administrative detention centres and confirms the anti-fraternity vis-à-vis asylum seekers? What about France's lack of solidarity with its European partners in welcoming refugees and shipwrecked people from the Aquarius? One year after the arrival of President Macron and the presidential majority in power, it must be recognized that the fraternity has collapsed, in disregard of the promises of the electoral campaign and despite the momentum of fraternization thanks to the football world cup. What we've been living for several months looks like a betrayal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u80	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u81	During his speech in Lyon on 4 February 2017, in the midst of the presidential campaign, the one who would become President of the Republic declared: "Our people are united by an invisible institution: fraternity. » The candidate Macron was right: the French people are united by fraternity, but President Macron has betrayed this promise by making this institution truly invisible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u82	Fraternity is a value, not an institution!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u83	Fraternity is not confused with angelism. It is a voluntary, ambitious and complex act. If Jaurès said that trust and audacity were needed for the Republic, we could say the same about the implementation of fraternity. A nation that trusts itself and projects boldly is not afraid of fraternity, on the contrary! If fraternity suffers today, it may be because France has lost confidence and audacity. Ladies and gentlemen of the presidential majority, since you came to the responsibilities, your leitmotiv is freedom, whatever the cost: you want to free up, free up savings with the removal of the ISF, free up work with the Penicaud ordinances or free housing. We, too, love freedom. We love him with the strength given him by the triptych of our republican motto. We love him for everyone. Now, in forgetting fraternity, you deprive freedom: you reserve it to a small number of French. This conference in Versailles will be useful to our country only if it allows a burst of fraternity to ensure the cohesion of our nation. Because here in Versailles we feel, perhaps even more than elsewhere, the heirs of those who created the France we know today, of those who broke with the power of one who decided for all. It is our absolute responsibility to translate for our country's destiny the values of freedom, equality and fraternity, which constitute what we are. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do not take your orders from a power that would be monarchical. Take your inspiration directly from our Republican triptych. May fraternity be at the heart of your decisions and votes. France has built itself on a complex model over the years! It is this model that has made its greatness and "effectiveness", to use a term that you particularly love. Detricating this model in the name of the search for simplicity may reassure you, but it won't take us anywhere. And above all, it will detrich France. [[Applause on many benches]] In Le Politique, Plato equates the art of good politics with that of a weaver capable of uniting yarns of various textures. Mr President of the Republic, take inspiration from Plato's weaver by regaining the taste of the fraternity that unites the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u84	The next speaker is Mr François Patriat, for the Republic on the move in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u85	Mr. Speaker of Congress, Mr. Speaker of the Senate, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, a year already! We were all gathered here and the President of the Republic had first set the course. This path was chosen by the people who, by voting for the plan of transformation that we shared, had indicated their confidence and hope, their confidence in our country's ability to face the immense challenges before it, their hope for a future in which France will continue to count in Europe and internationally. A future in which France will again be mentioned with respect and as an example. For the past year, we, parliamentarians of the presidential majority, have been the guarantors of this project. But in our territories, we must also be the fierce promoters against virulent opponents, those who hope to prosper on fears, sterile oppositions, hypocritical and opportunistic postures. [[Applause on many benches]] I have heard earlier from group presidents, of course with a certain talent, but I have wondered why so much outburst, why so much aggressiveness, if not to hide the weakness of their proposals. Political action requires courage. It demands courage and consistency. It takes courage to tell the truth to our fellow citizens. It takes courage to dare to undertake the reforms necessary for our country's recovery, its economic dynamism and its attractiveness. This courage we have had in the face of nihilistic adversity, as the many calls to keep good come from the ground, and you hear them as I do every day. But we need consistency, too. The time for legislative action is long; the time for administrative action is even more so. In a year, we've worked a lot. There are the reforms in depth that were necessary: that of the Labour Code, that of the SNCF, that of the internal security and that of the fight against terrorism, which, Mr Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, you have conducted with talent. And then there are all those that are less evoked and yet just as important. Earlier, the Head of State called them back. I won't come back. The political project that we defend and carry to both the Senate and the Assembly is a long-term political project. It's a quinquennium project. It's not a year's project. Those who doubt or criticize are those who have not yet understood the relevance and scope of the presidential project, which you too, Prime Minister, carry with determination and foresight. The announcements of the President of the Republic confirm our approach: that of the "at the same time", that of the "protection", which will always be next to the "liberation". No, there is no reason to see, as some so often do, a policy that would benefit only some, a policy that would abandon territories. No, there is no reason to caricature and lie to the French. [[Applause on many benches]] Yes, the government project is a justice and social equity project. Yes, past and future reforms are beneficial reforms for all, especially the working class, the most disadvantaged and the middle classes. Yes, we are proud of this project. In the face of conservatism and immobilism, we will continue to work for its success. The real deadline, for us who support the President of the Republic and the majority, Prime Minister, is four years from now. In four years' time, when economic opportunities are back, when the country will, as you often say, be repaired, when our youth will be able to take full advantage of its chances, when public accounts tend to be balanced, when no one will be left behind, then, at that time, we can be judged, but not before.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u86	Yes, I do! Every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u87	Mr.President of the Congress, Mr.President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, a year already, and now we want to move on to the works that are opening up and that are going to take care of us in the years to come. I am thinking in particular of constitutional reform. There is an appointment there – I say it to my honourable senators in particular – not to be missed. The last elections, first presidential, then legislative, have sent a part of the political class back to its internal struggles from which it seems to never want to leave – even to wonder if it does not like it. And even more so, the number of abstainers is not to be overlooked. A first step was taken with the adoption of laws to restore confidence in political life. Last summer, they were worn by the Minister of Justice, the keeper of the seals, whose work I want to pay tribute to. The second stage should strengthen the independence of the judiciary. It must open institutions to citizens and contemporary issues. It will recognize all our territories in their specificities, without prejudice to the unity of the Republic. It will enhance the effectiveness of the parliamentary procedure. The Senate must extract itself from the political logics of the parties when the stakes go beyond us, and concern France and the future of its institutions. Above all, after years of false, sometimes contradictory reforms, it is a matter of our territories, not of an umpteenth great institutional evening, but of a series of pragmatic adaptations that will correct the elements of aberration that go back to the ground and have been neglected until then. It is the right to differentiation, the right to derogation that completes the right to experiment. The contributions of this constitutional revision are also, and above all, part of the unprecedented dialogue between local authorities and the State, which I have often heard caricatured. The majority thus approved the Government, when it decided to put an end to four successive years of unilateral cuts in State allocations to local and regional authorities, and proposed a controlled increase in community operating costs of 1.2 per cent per year during the mandate. The controlled increase is reflected in the implementation of a contract. This partnership method is unprecedented and reflects the will of the majority, this girondin pact which must give the territories the means to act in a shared responsibility. Already 228 mayors and presidents of our largest executives have confirmed their commitment to the process, representing 70% of the communities involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u88	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u89	This figure is the translation of an assumed and responsible decentralization. This figure is the will of these elected officials who have been able to take their responsibilities, beyond postures and control effects. That is the meaning of the message that the Senators of the Republic on the move, elected rural, urban, coming from metropolis and overseas, want to carry by fully integrating themselves into the government's action for the transformation of our country, because we have full confidence in the ability of our territories to fully assume the stakes of our time. A final word on another collective responsibility, which is to guarantee the unity of the Republic behind principles allowing everyone to live together and to express themselves in a peaceful environment. There are republican principles on which we cannot compromise. The principle of secularism is one of them. Those who, on all sides, are exacerbating the positions and tensions on this subject today are dangerous and do not measure by the scope of such actions. Those who want to use constitutional reform for these purposes are irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u90	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u91	Without deviating the principles of total neutrality, secularism, we know, Prime Minister, that you will be committed to preserving the public and political space that must remain tolerant of all the children of the Republic, in their diversity. The European migration crisis we are experiencing is unprecedented and questions in the depths of our values, our attitude and our old certainties. In the face of the distress of these women and men, we cannot remain insensitive. The action of the Head of State and Government, determined to find a European solution to this crisis, without yielding to populism, should be welcomed. Progress has been made. We must continue to live up to the demands of humanity. Colleagues, we reiterate our confidence in our collective ability to reinvent ourselves, to bring about the necessary transformations in our country. [[Vif applause on many benches]] We have the courage to carry this project, the constancy to bring it to an end without haste, with energy, in order and with a quiet force which today characterizes the determination of the President of the Republic and, behind him, of the whole majority. So, my dear Richard, the Senators of the Republic on the march will be with you year II walkers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u92	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u93	Presidents, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic's speech reflects his first year of action. Behind the promises of a new world is the policy of the worst that the head of state wants to impose, the worst of the Fifth Republic, the worst of liberalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u94	Definitely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u95	It is not a renewal of the practice of the institutions that we are witnessing, but rather the setting up of its means: concentration and centralization of power in the hands of the head of state, devalorization of Parliament, distrust of the counter-powers – elected, trade unions, associations, journalists – and isolation of a presidential power swollen with certainties and insensitive to the shouts of anger made by the people. Terrible observation: this regime brutalizes democracy! The objective of the constitutional lift is not to democratize it. On the contrary, it is necessary to accentuate the oligarchic drift. [[Applause on a few benches]] The macronist version of the Fifth Republic is indeed part of an aggravated form of continuity. It places representatives of the people in a passive role as spectators of power. It reduces its number to make them elected out of the ground, cut off from the realities of everyday life. A model of government in which the President of the Republic and his advisers of the High Administration decide, while the Government plays the portants of water and the Parliament executes. It is not a matter of legislating, but of implementing as soon as possible the decision of the chief manager of the start-up nation. The way in which the future of SNCF has been dealt with illustrates the technocracy implemented by President Macron. Behind this democratic deficit, a will: to end the legislative function of parliamentarians, an objective: to impose even more the hyper-presidentialist logic. [[Applause on several benches]] A gravissimistic drift, it is a question of undermining the principle of separation of powers, to the point that its democratic nature questions and increases citizen distrust. That is why it is up to the sovereign people to decide on institutional reform in the context of holding a referendum. Unless the executive refuses this option, for fear that our fellow citizens will reject this reform and, at the same time, the anti-social policy that has been in place for a year. For at the end of this year of macroeconomic power, the world of work has already suffered a series of aggressions on the part of the one who assumes his title of "president of the rich", while at the same time attaching the name of reform to measures that in reality are justified only by ideological considerations of purely neoliberal essence. The first salve, of great brutality, was the questioning of employee protections and the increase of the CSG for pensioners. Then the first law of finance multiplied the gifts to the "first of the ropes". Finally, after having abolished the tax on wealth, the President of the Republic explained to us that the system of solidarity inherited from the National Council of the Resistance costs a "crazy money"! [[Applause on a few benches]] The reality is that the majority in power leads the economic and social policy dreamed up by France's 500 largest fortunes, who are "crazy" of having only doubled their "money" in ten years. This policy, both amoral and ineffective, considerably worsens economic, social and territorial inequalities. But the reality is that citizen resistance is also organized. From hospital staff or teachers to railway workers, employees in industry or large-scale distribution, malaise is becoming more widespread in the world of work. Far from the chimera of the "start-up nation", we communists defend the renewed vision of a protective and strategist state, of a state that ceases to retreat under the blows of liberal policies, which is the guarantor and not the fosseur of our model of social security – down from what has just been announced, in fact, by the President of the Republic. We are defending a state that ensures the revival of our industrial tool, instead of looking forward to bracing our assets; who not only pretend to want to secure decent incomes for the peasant world; which works towards a balanced development of the territories, in which the popular districts, the medium-sized cities, the peripheral and rural territories but also the ultramarine ones are not forgotten of the Republic; which preserves its ability to act in the areas of regalism, at the service of the citizens. Macroeconomic policy is an anti-social, violently anti-social policy. It is to reduce the rights of those who have them, while pretending to give them to those who do not. This model of society is in fact based on a normalization of precariousness: it is an ineffective and socially disastrous policy, in a word, a bad policy. This inefficiency is also evident in the external action of the President of the Republic. France's foreign policy traditionally revolves around national independence and multilateralism. But this so-called realistic line accuses a manifest inflection: it is increasingly interventionist and tinted with a barely veiled Westernism. [[Applause on a few benches]] Admittedly, in a global context conducive to unilateralism, and in contrast to Russian and American postures, the President of the Republic holds a speech valuing multilateral dialogue on Iran's nuclear issues, transatlantic free trade and the fight against global warming. But these three dossiers finally illustrate the failure of his strategy: his closeness to the American President does not allow him, as he would like, to play the role of privileged European partner of the United States. The speeches pass, but the images of the kisses will remain in memory! The Syrian file illustrates the appetence of macroeconomic diplomacy for pure communication and blasts. For example, in the case of the chemical attack on the population of eastern Ghouta, the United States, the United Kingdom and France played with international law and security without waiting for the conclusions of the international investigation, which has since been reported by officials to have found no evidence of the use of invasive gases. What a selective indignation! What a humanistic consciousness with variable geometry! French silence over Saudi intervention in Yemen and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict attests to this. In the Palestinian case, more delicate than ever, and three years exactly after the bloody Operation Protective Edge, Emmanuel Macron posted a privileged personal relationship with Benyamin Netanyahu, his "Dear Bibi", on a visit to Paris. This strategy of "personalized bilateralism" has produced no tangible results in favour of a peace solution. On the contrary, the head of the extreme right-wing nationalist government is reinforced by this denial of France's values. As for the management of the migration crisis, the sense of irresponsibility continues to prevail, as attested by the episode of the Aquarius: from the political and moral condemnation of Italy and Malta to the lack of willingness to provide assistance to people at risk, it was the game of hypocrisy that prevailed. The French executive has clinged to a series of legal arguties that ultimately legitimize the anxious discourse on the reception of refugees, which are reduced to a security and identity threat. Europe in general and France in particular are pitifully aligned with the arguments of the xenophobic parties, whose speeches now guide the action of the European capitals. This collective failure feeds national retreats and populisms. In the absence of answers to the political and moral stakes of this migration crisis, it is the meaning of the European project that covers itself with a black coat, instilling more than ever doubt on our community of destiny. What Europe do we want: a fortress folded over itself or a solidarity Europe? Faced with the policy of denying the values of the Republic and the authoritarian and liberal drifts of the majority in power, our fellow citizens can count on us, Communist deputies, with the progressives who are on our side, to defend their rights in the name of a model of society worthy of the republican motto. [[Vif applause on a few benches]] It is this commitment that we wanted to make by participating in this congress. It is this same commitment that we symbolically affirmed this afternoon, in front of the Salle du Jeu de Paume, to prepare "...days and seasons/ To the extent of our dreams. These are the dreams of the people of France, of the Bastille to the Commune, of the Popular Front to the Resistance and Social Security. From the Fifth Republic to the 6th Republic we want, the dreams of the people of France, it is our fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u96	Pierre Laurent, for the Republican communist group citizen and environmentalist of the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u97	Bis repetita!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u98	Mr President of Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this second convocation in just one year of Parliament, convened in Congress by the new President of the Republic here at the Palace of Versailles, is more than a symbol: in our view, it is an alarm for democracy, after a whole year devoted only to the service of the richest, a year led to a train of hell, very often without regard or respect for the work of Parliament. Of course, we are told that the President of the Republic is only using an article of the Constitution created by Nicolas Sarkozy – let us give back to Caesar what belongs to him – allowing this exercise of one-way presidential discourse that we have just witnessed again. But why this repeated use? Was there an urgent need to sacrifice again to such a ritual? However, the announcement of the poverty plan, or of the reform of the hospital, which is a matter of urgency, was repulsed in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u99	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u100	[[Applause on a few benches]] That's where we should have rushed. What was the urgency of this new demonstration of government communication? Only one, in truth: President Emmanuel Macron has come to tell us once again that he intends to complete the transformation of our Republic into a presidential monarchy of which he should be the sole leader. The amendment referred to earlier by the President of the Republic is in no way a solution: in the absence of a restoration of the central role of Parliament, it will not correct this drift, it will only accompany it. [[Vif applause on several benches]] We have heard many fine words today, but we are well placed, as regards respect for Parliament's work, to share words and deeds. A significant episode has remained in my memory – and, I believe, in that of all senators –: the government veto, on two occasions, against the proposed legislation to ensure the revalorization of agricultural retirement pensions. I would point out that this bill had been accepted, on our initiative, by all the political groups in the Senate, except the La République group in motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u101	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u102	This infringement of Parliament's sovereign rights will remain an indelible task. A communication analyst from the President of the Republic wrote this on May 6, a year after his election: "From the Louvre to Versailles, passing through Villers-Cotterêts and Chambord, it is at the depth of the monarchy field that this young republican prince is adorned. Everything is said: one would believe to hear Stéphane Bern in the text, glorifying the nobility of another age! But communication does nothing about it: it is to a monarchy and authoritarian exercise of power that we want to get used to, at the service of the privileged. Symbol against symbol, we chose another. Before joining this Chamber, we have marked our unwavering commitment to the Republic and to popular sovereignty by going in front of the Hall of the Paume Game, just a few blocks away from this castle. It was there that it all began, when 300 deputies of the Third State called, on 20 June 1789, that they would not separate themselves until they had drafted a Constitution, committing a transfer of historical and revolutionary power from the king to the nation and the people. It is to this oath that we are and will remain faithful. [[Applause on a few benches]] In this connection, I would like to say a word about the ongoing institutional review, which the President of the Republic has completely avoided. These three texts constitute a single block, and aim to establish an unrivalled concentration of powers. You reduce Parliament's power of amendment, you strengthen the executive's control over its agenda; In the context of populist arguments, you justify the reduction of one-third of the number of parliamentarians, and half of the number of members of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, while it is the Elysée and the Government that are engulfing Parliament by an assault of texts aimed at liberalizing and selling the whole society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u104	With constituencies with more than 200000 inhabitants, you will move the legislative power away from the citizens as in no other European country. You're talking proportional: you're making fun of the world! With such a reduction in the number of parliamentarians, it will be reduced to nothing; Worse, the pluralism of our assemblies will be seriously affected. One example: several dozen departments will only elect one senator. In these departments, pluralism in the Senate will be strictly forbidden: you don't care, because that's what you want. You are talking about the efficiency and quality of legislative work, but in truth, the only thing that matters to you is that Parliament approves and executes what the Castle has decided. Your attack on our institutions and Parliament is all the more serious because it is combined with your attack on local authorities, in the first place the municipalities, and more precisely their budgets. You are in fact replacing the constitutional principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities with an abusively termed "contractualization" and differentiation, which is nothing other than the end of equality in the territory. [[Applause on a few benches]] We therefore demand a referendum at the end of the parliamentary debate, so that the French can make an informed decision on this reform. We will wage this fight for democracy with all the more determination as the country is becoming aware of the reason why you are asking for its full powers, and of the danger of the policy being pursued. With the many gifts to the most fortunate – from the considerable relief of the ISF to the abolition of the exittax, to the refusal to blow up Bercy's lock to fight against tax evasion – who would still dare to contest that Emmanuel Macron is the president of the rich?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u106	CAC 40 is in good health: profits and dividends reach record levels. But this money is absolutely not flowing, and for the reason: you have never tackled the main problem, namely the way in which available money – money created in the country by work – is used, or the criteria for access to credit and financing. On the one hand, tax policies and generous contribution exemptions for finance; on the other hand, encouraging competitiveness based on lower labour costs... When we have to pay for the addition, this translates into a drastic austerity of public spending and an explosion of insecurity and inequality. The useful social expenditure of local authorities is put in trouble everywhere, public services are at the bone. The state of emergency is declared in hospitals and residential institutions for dependent elderly, EHPAD. The entire public health system is in crisis, as revealed by the French tour of hospitals that we have undertaken. The meeting with the suburbs and priority neighbourhoods was sadly missed in the spring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u107	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u108	Once again, you have not heard anything from the first concerned, elected, associations and inhabitants, who, however, had mobilized with hope in the context of the report entrusted to Jean-Louis Borloo. Rurality, too, suffers a lot. The promise of the reconstruction of remunerative prices for peasant labour is not kept and territorial inequalities are widening, forgotten territories are multiplying in the Republic. Equality is nothing more than a gigantic gruyère whose holes are always bigger!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u109	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u110	[["Very fair! » and applause on several benches]] The housing crisis is huge. And your answer is the ELAN law – Evolution of housing, development and digital technology – a bonus for the increased liberal commodification of the sector and the privatization of the city. You boast that every time you get your reforms voted in spite of the oppositions they provoke. But where is the glory of this policy of forceps, whose benefits are non-existent for the great mass of the French? With the reform of the railway, what have you settled, apart from preparing the sector for an opening up to competition that will be very expensive in terms of the weakness of the network, the shortage of investments and staff, and the increase of tariffs for the user? You alleviate the debt, but you immediately introduce a golden rule that will stifle the necessary public investment, especially in freight, indispensable for the ecological revolution of transport. As for the establishment of Parcoursup, it was indispensable and urgent allegedly in order to put an end to the arbitrariness. But the arbitrariness is this time generalized, more precisely the social sorting is now legalized. While France needs an ambitious university education and training policy, it is the lack of ambition that dominates all your budgetary choices in this area. And what about another strategic sector for the future that the President mentioned: energy? Yes, we need public control of energy in the service of the ecological transition, but what about the scandalous privatisation of the hydraulic dams, the total abandonment of the state's public participation in Engie, the sector delivered to Total's appetites, the accelerated deregulation of tariffs, Alstom's radage?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u112	Even when the Government declares a major national cause – think about the fight against violence against women – it is able to miss the legislative meeting, with, upon arrival, a law not at all up to the level, not solving the problems. Moreover, the mobilization and tenacity of the feminist and associative world is necessary to push back a questionable and dangerous definition of rape on minors. (Applause from several benches.) [[Applause on several benches. – Some members of Congress rise]] Throughout the year, we have resisted and alerted about the dangers of your policy, we have multiplied the alternative proposals and ways of working. We'll continue. Since you do not listen to the country, we will listen to it for two and work more and more with the living forces, the social forces of the country. You do not believe in Parliament, we do: we will make it the chamber of resonance of all the struggles, of all the aspirations for progress, of all the intelligences of our country. For if power no longer seems to understand what the motto of the Republic means, "Freedom, Equality, Fraternity", millions of our fellow citizens have not lost their meaning. We are and will stand by them to bear the hope of a democratic Republic, of a more just and supportive France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u113	Claude Malhuret, Chairman of the Independents - Republic and Territories of the Senate Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u114	Mr President of Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic is no longer here. The Constitution forbids him, does not dislike the professionals of bad faith who would like to taste their joke: "The king comes and does not even listen to what we have to say to him. The solution to this imperfection of the 2008 constitutional review has just been proposed to us by the President himself, and I have no doubt, Prime Minister, to hear the applause he has received, which this amendment will find without difficulty a three-fifths majority in Congress. I will therefore anticipate this deadline and address you, of course, but also the President as if he were still there. I'll start, it's the least polite, with compliments. [[Applause on a few benches]] [[Smile]] Mr President, first of all, we must have brought out the political landscape from a somewhat hopeless torpor which, two years ago, made French people, to the great surprise of all those who come to them, the most depressed people in the world. Their morale has improved in front of a chambardement as they adore them: a party that did not exist two years ago now all powerful in the Assembly; the two large traditional alternation forces moribund for one, separated for the other. It is true that the real populists are still surviving on the protests, with, on the one hand, a castro-chavism of operetta to the arch-deceased ideology, which has not deigned to be one of us today, which gives an idea of his respect for a Parliament which he would immediately dissolve if he ever came to power, and, on the other, an extreme right which has passed in a few years of nepotism to the Atrides, whose programme is based on the farce of the two euros for internal and external use, and which admires abroad – a peak for this party whose breviary has always been the denunciation of ploutocracy and communism! – an American ploutokrate and a former colonel of the KGB. Mr President, to paraphrase Bernard Blier, you have scattered the political landscape in a puzzle way. Bravo the artist, but beware, the mixture is unstable! You must also be complimented, Mr. President, for a substantial part of your action over the past year and for the action that your Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, is taking seriously and unscrupulously. At the international level, first of all, no one can deny that France has regained a place, a role and an influence that it had largely lost. First of all, because you beat the populists in France when they imposed themselves everywhere. Secondly, because in a world tempted by protectionism, isolationism, threats and postures, you give the image of a France committed to dialogue, peace, multilateralism and Europe. For the French, so attached to the universalism of their nation, and for whom a small France is a France in crisis, this image is reassuring. At the national level, then, there is no reason not to support your reforms when they go in the right direction. I often enjoy seeing some of my colleagues contest your proposals with the same conviction that they supported them when they came from their candidate a few months earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u115	That's a little true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u116	"It often takes a change of opinion to be always part of his party," said Cardinal de Retz. That was a good observation! [[Exclaims on a few benches]] As far as our group is concerned, we see no reason why we should not support the changes that we believe are appropriate, whether they be on education, on the labour code, on vocational training, on apprenticeship, on the railway pact that we have just voted for. This was a devastating defeat for those who did not hesitate to set up the worst form of strike in order to rot as much as possible the lives of the French, the repeated strike, justified by a pseudo-vote gathered in cardboard ballot boxes truncated from one deposit to the other, flying leaves as lists of increase and, at the finish, a score worthy of the election of Brezhnev at Politburo. As Stalin said, "what matters is not the vote, it's the way we count the votes." We had to resist them. You did it and Parliament did it with you. That's for the compliments. [[Other movements]] After honey, let me have some salt. Our group is called Les Indépendants. We are neither macronolsters nor primary antimacronians, which, in my opinion, places us among the most objective of the groups that speak today. I therefore hope that you will consider the following remarks constructive and not corrosive. Some relate to perils, to disappointments – temporary, I hope for you and for the French – and others relate to challenges. You know the perils, of course. To start with external perils, terrorism, formerly distant and exogenous, is now domestic. What about the jihadists back on our soil? How can we fight radicalization? How long will our army manage to be engaged simultaneously on several foreign fronts and on the national territory? Migration, then. While flows have declined this year, only misled minds do not see that the long-term trend is inexorable growth, and a triple crisis, political, consciousness and identity, has opened up in Europe. Another danger is the questioning of the transatlantic link by the trade war of an unpredictable and memoryless populist, who cultivates doubt about his commitment to NATO and treats Europeans as adversaries. Europeans are finding that they are alone. Let us hope that this finding will be a sting. The rise of the emerging ones is one of the best news that humanity has known since it allowed the emergence of the misery of billions of men and women, thanks to the economic liberalism invented by our democracies a few centuries ago, contrary to the imprecations of the sellers of tomorrows who sing. Paradoxically, it is at a time when this economic liberalism triumphs that dictatorships and illiberal and security democracies are experiencing renewed attraction, and that is not good news. Climate change is perhaps even worse with its consequences in terms of health, costs, geopolitical risks, and especially because of the daunting difficulties of the necessary energy transition. These perils, you know them, I said. There is no travel abroad during which you did not mention them, tried to solve some of them. But every day, the task seems to be bigger, France smaller than the rest of the world, and Europe a little more the framework to deal with it. Unfortunately, if Europe is the solution, it is at the same time the problem, and the last danger is that the crisis it is currently going through, unlike all the previous ones that have been overcome, may take the building away. Disadvantages, no government escapes; The states of grace, like youth and roses, never last, you must have noticed. When you were elected, your situation was compared to that of General de Gaulle in 1958, having dried up the political landscape for the benefit of his Gathering. But there's a big difference. Malraux said, "The Gaullist party is the subway at six o'clock in the evening." Walking is not the subway at six o'clock in the evening. Those who elected you and those who support you today are the French of the metropolises more than those of forgotten territories, those who feel comfortable in globalization more than losers, those for whom the social elevator continues to work more than the poor or the unemployed. You must find this unfair, Mr President, because you are convinced to work for all and to change methods, not because you are antisocial, but because our social model is broken. You may also find it unfair to dislike some of the local elected officials. The National Conference of Territories opens in two days in the absence of their three major associations. You have many reasons to find this surprising, you whose government has, for the first time in years, cushioned the decline in endowments. But this is how it is, even though much of the responsibility lies with a technocracy that has planted the ministers in charge of selling this policy – all local elected officials will understand me. Allow the mayor that I have been for twenty-eight years to quote again the Cardinal of Retz: "The mind in big business is nothing without the heart. The elected representatives of our territories are willing to accept much, they have done it in the past, but they would love, forgive those words that may appear here incongruous, proofs of love, or at least affection, which they feel they are slow to come. Finally, there are the challenges. Everything is a challenge for a President of the Republic, like all the perils and disappointments I have mentioned. But the main challenge is the action, and this one, you have clearly identified it. As parliamentarians begin to complain about the laws that follow each other in gusts, which they are, it seems, on the brink of burn out, you have told The Economist to blame you, on the contrary, for not having done things early enough. It's a great lucidity. If I can afford two criticisms, the first is that many of your reforms go in the right direction, but sometimes they just touch on the issues. But this criticism is moderate: I would have bad thanks to reproaching his shyness for the first government in years, which had the courage to attack several sacred cows of French immobilism. He can be forgiven for having had to make some well-thinking genuflections in front of often threatening adversaries. [[Applause on many benches]] My second criticism is not a reproach, rather a wait. Many of us share it and I know it haunts you. This is the fall in public expenditure, in a country doped with public expenditure. This is the condition of your credibility on the European and international stage, the condition for your success in our country. You will have to make cornelian choices, take major risks, and all oppositions will come together against you. In the end, the key to success, the justice of peace of your quinquennium will be your ability to bring together a France that oscillates between the atavic temptation of division and the historic aspiration to unity, a France capable of meeting the challenge of Europe to meet those of the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u117	Brilliant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u118	Mr Olivier Falorni, Member of the National Assembly, who is not a member of the National Assembly, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u119	Mr President of the Congress, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in a soloquist while majesty, here at the Palace of Versailles, the Head of State came to talk to us without listening to us. Next year, it'll be different. Good! In this exercise, I will use, as was said under the old regime, my right of reverence. Having only a five-minute speaking time, I will only do so on a subject on which, obviously, the President is again abusing the principle set out by the Cardinal of Retz: "We only get out of ambiguity to his detriment. » This ambiguity – its ambiguity – concerns secularism. For a year, Emmanuel Macron has been talking a lot about religion, but little about secularism...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u120	Yes, he did!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u121	...and when he talks about it, it's always in front of the cults. The President could have made his understanding of secularism clear to all parliamentarians today. Alas! He didn't or he didn't. A few months ago, at the Elysée, Emmanuel Macron had recited a children's tale, Pierre and the wolf. Today, here in Versailles, he recited another: Emmanuel and the blur. The blur on secularism. To practice ambiguity with regard to secularism, to constantly adjective it is to weaken it, thus to damage it. When we speak, as he has done, of the damaged links between the Church and the State, it is the law of 1905 that is damaged, for only what exists is damaged. [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie and Ms. Sylvia Pinel applaud]] Since the law of secular separation of December 9, 1905, the Napoleonic concordat that bound the State and the Church no longer exists, except in Alsace-Moselle. The President of a secular Republic must treat everyone's convictions equally, not to restore the alliance of the throne and altar proper to the old regime. By asserting, as he did, that the state is secular, but that society is not, he has made an inaccurate distinction, for he has confused secular and atheist. Society is the place of the plurality of spiritual convictions that brings together atheists, agnostics and believers. For society to make them live together peacefully, it must meet the demands of secularism that unites all the people. This indivisible unity must, more than ever, be based on three principles: freedom of conscience and not mere tolerance, equality of rights without distinction or hierarchy of spiritual beliefs, and the general interest, that is, a public power consecrated to the only common good. To assert, as he did, that "... secularism certainly does not have the function of denying the spiritual in the name of the temporal, nor of uprooting from our societies the sacred part that nourishes so much of our fellow citizens," amounts to imputing to secularism a position that has never been his. Secular emancipation does not want to deny spiritual life. On the contrary, it makes its liberation and pluralism possible by freeing it from any theological or political censorship. [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie, Ms. Sylvia Pinel and Mr. José Évrard applaud]] If secularism does not recuse religious spirituality at all, it also means respecting the spiritual convictions of atheists and agnostics, as well as all cultural forms that express the human spirit. Humanisms without the god of Diderot, Condorcet or Camus, for example, do not have to be ignored. The President of the Republic, in his private sphere, is free to practise a religion, but, in the exercise of his functions, he cannot, as a republican motto, derogate from the neutrality which is the condition of equal respect for all. France has an ardent need to make Republic and to bring together all women and men, regardless of their origins, skin colour, philosophy, religion, sex or opinions, in a universalistic and fraternal citizenship. Yes, secularism is the solution in this French society torn apart by the rise of intolerances, community demands, identity xenophobia, threats to equality between men and women. Secularism is not atheism against religions, nor is it the other way around. On the contrary, it is the very condition of republican concord around the values of freedom, equality and fraternity. I will not cease to say that secularism is not a sword but as much a shield as an emancipatory principle that allows all, believers and non-believers, to live in peace in the respect of the other. Secularism is neither a dogma nor an ideology nor an opinion. It is a philosophical, political and legal framework that makes it possible to exercise all the freedoms that we enjoy. This is the meaning of Aristide Briand's 1905 law that, together with my radical friends, I wish to see constitutionalised in the context of the forthcoming reform, in order to protect the secularism, talisman of our Republic. [[Applause on several benches]] I conclude by thinking of this terrible sentence pronounced by Charb, the director of Charlie Hebdo, shot down by barbaric obscurantism for defending freedom of expression: "I am less afraid of religious extremists than lay people who are silent." No, we won't shut up, sir.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-09-C1001.u122	The meeting is adjourned.
