ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u1	[[Mrs. and Mr. the deputies and members of the Government rise]] Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, Islamist terrorism once again struck France and took the lives of four of our fellow citizens. Last week, it was in the Aude, in Trebes, that our country was targeted, through its inhabitants and its forces of law and order. But this war that is being waged, France is facing it both in the national territory and in its external operations. She is constantly paying the price, as was sadly recalled on Wednesday by Corporal Pochylski's death in Iraq. Our collective responsibility is to defend our Republic against the heinous blackmail of fundamentalists. Our common duty is to defend, each in its place, each with its own convictions, our values of freedom, equality and fraternity, which make the French Republic a particular target. Last Friday, near Carcassonne, our Republic had a face: that of Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame. He consented to the supreme sacrifice, which, in order to save lives, did not hesitate to expose his own. On behalf of all of you, I would like to pay tribute to Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame and the civilian victims of this attack: Jean Mazières, Christian Medvès and Hervé Sosna – peaceful citizens whose lives have been so brutally and unjustly broke. On your behalf, I address a thought to the wounded, to the witnesses, to the relatives of all the victims, but also to the rescue forces. The lives of all those who have experienced this tragedy will now be marked, indelibly, by terrorist barbarism. [[Mrs. and Mr. the deputies and members of the Government observe a minute of silence]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in memory of the victims, in memory of a French hero, I invite you to observe a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u2	The next item is the question to the Government. By agreement between all the groups, it was decided that each group would ask a two-minute question and that the Prime Minister would provide a comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u3	The next speaker is Mrs Danièle Herin, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u4	Prime Minister, I have the sad honour to question you as a Member of Parliament for the riding of Aude, which includes Trèbes and Carcassonne, where the terrible attacks of last Friday took place. On that day, at eleven o'clock, in this rural territory, Jean Mazières, a retired winemaker living in Villedubert, was travelling out of Carcassonne; Christian Medvès practised his profession as head of the butcher's department of the supermarket known to all in Trèbes; Hervé Sosna, retired mason, entered the store. The drama. A few hours later, these three people had died. Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame sacrificed his life to save another, perhaps several. On behalf of the population and families of the victims, I would like to pay tribute to these four deceased persons. Since the beginning of this event, I share every day the shock, distress and pain of the relatives of the victims, the wounded and the customers of the Trebes supermarket held hostage. On behalf of the people of my territory, I would like to thank the intervention forces, the law enforcement agencies, the relief and psychological services, who have done a great deal of work, with dedication and professionalism. I would also like to thank the Minister of the Interior, Gérard Collomb, who arrived at the scene of the hostage-taking even before its conclusion. As I speak to you, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the national tribute to Lieutenant-Colonel Beltrame and the funerals of the victims have not yet taken place. By decency, let us respect the time of mourning demanded by the families, by the relatives, and by the inhabitants of Trèbes, Villedubert and Carcassonne. [[Applause on all benches]] Prime Minister, we are in shock and so stunned. So this one question dwells on me: what can you do, what can we do to bring our country together and ensure that such a tragedy does not happen again?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u5	Mr Christian Jacob, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u6	In three years, France has suffered ten terrorist attacks, resulting in 245 deaths. The names of four innocent people will be added to the list of those who have fallen by the hatred of individuals who execrate the Judeo-Christian heritage of France and the values of the Republic. The sacrifice of Lieutenant-Colonel Beltrame increased the anger of the French. For it is unbearable to think that a senior gendarmerie officer was stabbed by a man, watched since 2014, registered S, well-known radicalized, and that the nation welcomed him in his midst by naturalization. I have no doubt, Mr Prime Minister, that you are determined to fight terrorism, or that of Mr Valls or Mr Cazeneuve before you. But we believe that the time has come to make new decisions: the lock-up or geolocalizable bracelet for French, radicalized and registered individuals; expulsion from the national territory for foreign, radicalised and registered individuals; the closure of places of worship in which the hatred of France and the French is advocated. We also call for the deprivation of nationality of the jihadists who fought the soldiers of France. François Hollande had renounced it; Is President Macron ready for it? Finally, the state of emergency you should not have lifted, we ask you to restore it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] Prime Minister, you have the keys to a strong and lasting national union. You will always find us by your side if you make the decisions that the French have already waited too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u7	The next speaker is Mr Marc Fesneau, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u8	Prime Minister, the news is televising and leaving us astonished. In Trèbes last Friday, Arnaud, Jean, Hervé and Christian died under the circumstances we know. In Paris, on the same day, Mireille, a survivor of the Vél d'Hiv, was murdered by anti-Semitism. These two acts have the same origin: ignorance, hatred and cruelty, all joining together in the most infamous barbarity. This unleashion, which follows on from other similar acts that have occurred on our soil, crushes us by its ignoble character. Yet in this absolute darkness came a light, which took the face of Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame. All of us here bow to the incredible courage he showed this Friday morning by taking the place of a hostage. Power of evil, power of good, we lack words in both cases to say our feeling, either that it disgusts us, or that we admire it. Nevertheless, it is our responsibility in this place to say out loud what we consider to be great and noble. The act of Arnaud Beltrame obliges us and honors us: it responds with honor and virtue to selfishness and obscurantism. We must look at him with all the humility that this gesture calls. That is why we wish to express our gratitude to him, which will be done tomorrow at the national tribute ceremony to the Invalides. In the face of barbarism, ladies and gentlemen, the essential thing lies in the attitude of men, because this fight is done by law as well as in the conscience of everyone. To lead it, we need examples, figures, references. We need to admire, respect, hope. Prime Minister, before I agree with you on the Government's response, that is to say, on the lessons to be learned collectively from these events, I would like to recall these verses by Victor Hugo describing the paladins, in The Legend of the Centuries: "They were, in times of oppression, mourning, "Of shame, where the infamy showed his pride, "The spectre of honor, law, justice. » [[Applause on all benches. – Mrs and Mr. Members of the MODEM, LaREM, UDI-Agir and FI groups stand up and continue to applaud]] Lieutenant-Colonel Beltrame was one of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u9	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u10	Mr President, on behalf of the IDU Group, Action and Independents, I also want to say our emotion. We bow to the four victims. I also say to you our boundless admiration for the sacrifice of Lieutenant-Colonel Beltrame, to whom a tribute will be paid tomorrow. And I echo our determination, to all of us here I imagine, to fight against this barbarism that has been waging war on us for several years now, in the name of a religious ideology, not a religion. As after each attack, this determination must first lead to a momentum of cohesion – not confusion – at the national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u12	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM, MODEM, NG, GDR and FI groups]] I must say the astonishment that is ours when we see the Lépine contest of the miracle solution rise again, whereas this one, unfortunately, does not exist. To fight this barbarism and win the war that its supporters are doing against everything we represent here – the values of our nation, our Republic; The humanistic values of the civilization that France bears in it – it is necessary, Prime Minister, a global strategy to fight against a fascist and nihilistic ideology that hides itself behind a religion by transvestising it. There is also a need to strengthen the human means of monitoring the individuals who have been carried away in this ideology. We must never hesitate to examine any loopholes in our security arrangements, including, if any, intelligence. There must be a much stronger fight against the spread of hate and intolerance messages and calls for crime that exist on the Web and, unfortunately, not just on it. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM, MODEM and FI groups]] Instead of drawing conclusions today, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you two questions: at this stage, in the face of the difficulty of monitoring all those who are currently identified as potentially dangerous, are you planning to step up and speed up the reinforcement of our intelligence services? Moreover, as you know, does the investigation seem to reveal a flaw in the surveillance of this cowardly murderer? Isn't that where we need to find the solution? For we will certainly have to find solutions, but not in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u13	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u14	[[Applause on all benches]] Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again, once again, France bows with pain to four new Daesh victims. But, in the face of the abject crime, there was the self-denial of a man, Arnaud Beltrame. So I say this to all the children of France: between those who sacrifice their lives for others and those who sacrifice the lives of others, there is the difference between heroism and cowardice, between courage and indignity. Not every cause is worth it. Ours is the Republic. Daesh's defeats in Iraq and Syria must not lead us to lower our guard. Radical Islamism is a fragmentation bomb, a cancer that is metastasized around the world. Unfortunately, we are not done with those barbarians who seek, on every occasion, to experience the resistance and resilience of our democracies. With each attack, the reaction was worthy: the rulers, Prime Minister, as the French people were up to the challenge and responded by unity. Security arrangements have been strengthened. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, GDR and FI groups]] Therefore, we must be responsible. No one should take the pretext of the misfortune that strikes us to enter a demagogic auction. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Nevertheless, we must be lucid. We want you to take the trouble, Prime Minister, to bring parliamentary groups together. We must face together the challenges before us. I am thinking in particular of the prevention of radicalisation by supporting neighbourhood associations and territorial intelligence, which has been undermined since the disappearance of general information. I am also thinking of prison intelligence, for which the means you have deployed are very inadequate in view of the number of detainees to be monitored. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, GDR and FI groups]] The events do not justify any controversy. They demand from us a sense of the state. Prime Minister, I want to tell you that once again, once again, we will be at the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u15	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u16	[[Applause on all benches]] Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in Trèbes and Carcassonne, as elsewhere before, a terrorist act has carried out abject violence but calculated, with the aim of subjugating reason, to impose submission to fear, which pushes everyone for himself, and, finally, to abolish the human norm. However, while the worst was in place, the evil was defeated – I dare say so – because the scene was reversed: Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame put the human world back in order; he reaffirmed the primacy of compassion; He assumed the primacy of absolute altruism, the one who takes for himself the possible death of the other, thus illustrating the values of faith and philosophy to which he was personally attached. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, NG and GDR]] In this sense, Lieutenant-Colonel Beltrame is a hero of the human condition. Certainly, his sacrifice does not erase pain, blood, or death, but it prescribes an imperative and imperative duty: in our turn to deny the enemy any victory whatsoever, starting with that of division, confusion and controversy that would tear us apart. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, NG and GDR]] Prime Minister, we, the opposition, you say: we are sure that you, your ministers and all the departments of the state have done everything in your power under this circumstance, as best you could. [[Applause on the benches of the groups FI, LaREM, MODEM, NG and GDR as well as on a few benches of the groups UDI-Agir and LR. – Mrs and Mr. Members of the FI, LaREM, MODEM, NG and GDR groups stand up and continue to applaud]] Prime Minister, we are available for the union around the memory of those who have died and the example they give us. Call us to a national mourning, and we will respond favourably.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u17	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u18	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again, blind terrorism has just struck innocent people. This cowardly, barbaric act, we condemn it with the utmost vigour. We think of the victims, their loved ones, and we solemnly salute the exemplary dedication and courage of Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame. [[Applause on all benches]] The strength of his conscious choice, so admirable, goes far beyond a simple personal heroic act. It is the mark of a strong culture that is that of our national gendarmerie. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, NG, LaREM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] We wish here to pay tribute to him and stress the urgent need today to continue his spirit of brotherhood and solidarity. It is at this momentum that we must give strength and duration against division, this poison that, unfortunately, irresponsible voices have spread from the very first moments of this tragedy. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, NG, LaREM, MODEM groups and on several benches of the UDI-Agir group]] The division of our national community is the objective sought and even theorized by terrorists acting in the name of Daesh. That is why we must reject, forcefully reject any amalgam, any discourse that attempts to recover and instrumentalize this tragedy. Protecting the people and our Republic is protecting our rule of law. Reason and lucidity require us to trust the rule of law in order to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u19	Islamic!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u20	Reason and lucidity also command us to give our State the means of its own strength in order to defend our republican values and to fulfil its sovereign missions, without which we are condemned to failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u21	Dare to name!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u22	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the GDR, FI, NG, LaREM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud]] We, the political leaders and representatives of the nation, must face the terrorist challenge with responsibility, courage and dignity. We must live up to national unity and cohesion in order to offer our children a more just world, a world truly based on the values of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u23	The Prime Minister has the floor to answer these seven questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u24	Mr President, Mrs Hérin, Mr Jacob, Mr Fesneau, Mr Lagarde, Mr Faure, Mr Mélenchon, Mr Chassaigne, Mr Chassaigne, I would first like to associate myself and the entire Government with the tribute that you all have just paid to the victims of the terrorist attack in Carcassonne and Trebes. We all learned the news and, if I may say so, took the news in the heart, because it echoed what we are: free women and men, attacked in a small town, in a parking lot, in a supermarket. Jean Mazières, in the car park of the Eagles, Hervé Sosna, who was shopping, Christian Medvès, the butcher of the supermarket, and Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame lost their lives there. We all think here about them, their families and their loved ones. We also think, of course, of the wounded and all the direct witnesses of this tragedy. We also think of all those who, in their lives, have had to overcome or experience events of this nature and who, at the time of the attack, relive in their flesh what they have already experienced. And he is on those benches of the Members, either because of the duties they perform today, or because of those they were exercising yesterday, who lived these moments. I am of course thinking of Manuel Valls, because he was Prime Minister at the time of the first attacks and he saw it. He wasn't the only one, there were many others. I am thinking of Hubert Wulfranc, a Communist MP, who was mayor at the time of the murder of Father Hamel. I am thinking of Jean-Michel Fauvergue, whom his responsibilities and professional career have put into direct contact with these events and attacks. They are reliving, perhaps even more than we are, the tragedy that was felt last Friday. To all victims and direct witnesses, I want to say that the Government will put all the means at its disposal to accompany them in this ordeal. In this time, which is still that of mourning, the very vivid memory of this attack and the image of its author shot down by the forces of law and order fades behind that of a hero, Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame. He is, as you have said, the Republic. He is his image, his body and he is part of a long history of French civilians and French soldiers who stood straight when the worst came. This image, this courage impresses me, impresses us, and at the bottom they refer us to a feeling not paradoxical but mixed with immense pride and great humility. To this tribute that we owe to Lieutenant-Colonel Beltrame, I want to associate all those who protect us and who acted last Friday with admirable speed and skill. I think, of course, of the police and gendarmerie that have intervened. I am also thinking, under the authority of the prefects, of all those who, within the departmental assessment groups, are conducting this very difficult and unsurprising work of intelligence, risk assessment and the allocation of the means of surveillance. Since January 2015, the work of these intelligence services has led to the defeat of fifty-one attacks. Seventeen failed. Eleven, we know that, alas! have come to fruition. The threat is protein-forming. She's real. Neither the Minister of State, the Minister of the Interior, nor myself nor any other member of the Government has ever misestimated it, has ever hidden it. We are living in a period of threat. I would like to say to all those who are facing this threat, to the French citizens, of course, but also to all the security forces, that I know that they are carrying out their mission with the same concentration, the same rage to succeed as that which was in the heart of Lieutenant-Colonel Beltrame when he took in an instant the decision that made him a hero. This tribute we pay to the memory of the dead, it obliges us. It obliges us to the gravity, it obliges us to the responsibility. The judicial investigation of the facts continues under the authority of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Paris. It will obviously have to shed light on the terrorist's radicalization process, its possible complicity and the specific circumstances of the attack. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, NG, GDR and FI]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] But those who claim, without knowing, that this attack should have been avoided – no one said that on these benches – those who believe they can promise the French a zero risk take, in their lightness, a very heavy responsibility. I hear the proposals, which are not new, made on different benches or by the leaders of different parties. I want to answer it straight away: these questions are legitimate, these questions deserve to be asked.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u25	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u26	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I want to answer that. In general, I am not among those who consider that the law must intervene immediately after an attack has occurred, on the grounds that it would itself resolve all the issues that arise. I've always thought that, I've always said it clearly. Some say, as you have done, President Jacob, that a state of emergency should be restored.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u27	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u28	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Together with the President of the Republic, we have agreed to put an end to it at the very moment when we are strengthening the common law with the so-called SILT law – strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism. Because we are facing a terrorist threat that will last for many years, it is with common law weapons that we must combat it. The state of emergency was necessary, and it was necessary to get out of it by equipping us with perennial instruments: we did so with the law of 30 October 2017. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I also hear the debate on the S. Some say to us: "Expell them all! Others say to us: "Close them all! " Some even say both at once.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u29	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u30	Say that, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u31	Nobody says that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u32	...is deeply unaware of our intelligence tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u33	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] The S card is a police tool, a tool of vigilance that allows to accumulate intelligence on a person, precisely to remove doubt about whether or not there are links with terrorism or violent action. It is not in itself an evidence, and it is of interest only if the persons concerned do not know that they are. That is exactly what a former director general of the national police, well known and respected by all – and certainly by me – Frédéric Péchenard, said yesterday. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] [["Ah! » on some benches of the LR group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] To say that is finally, I believe, to ignore the rule of law. We cannot, in France, be deprived of his freedom on the basis of suspicion. Yes, terrorists must be locked up, but it is up to justice to decide. Yes, foreigners who pose a serious threat to public order must be expelled, and the Ministry of the Interior regularly does so: since 2015, 48 foreigners linked to terrorist or Islamist movements have been expelled and 361 administrative bans have been imposed on the territory. But this can only be done in the light of verified and enforceable information. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, GDR and FI. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, GDR and on a few benches of the FI group]] Finally, a third question is asked: should Salafism be prohibited? There is a real question about the struggle for civilization, about the cultural counter-insurgency that we must lead in order to uphold republican values. I'll tell you my conviction. It is based on article 10 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 26 August 1789: "No one shall be disturbed for his or her views, even religious, provided that their manifestation does not disturb the public order established by law. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ban an idea. Such conduct may be punished if it is contrary to public order, the laws of the Republic and the minimum requirements of life in society. I mean, on this point, that the Government is, and will be, without weakness. The Government dissolves associations that incite discrimination, hatred or violence and incite terrorism. The Government closed the places of worship where the thesis of terrorism was held. The Government upholds the principle of secularism and will wage the battle against the spread of hatred on social networks. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] [[Same movements]] Indeed, the responsibility of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is action. Since last May, we have committed ourselves, together with Gérard Collomb, Nicole Belloubet and the entire Government, under the authority of the President of the Republic, to a determined, lucid and resolute action. In order to get out of the state of emergency, we had to provide ourselves with a protective legal framework for citizens; As I said, we did so with the law of 30 October 2017. This law allows us to impose surveillance obligations on persons close to terrorist movements – thirty-four people are currently subject to such obligations. It allows us to arrange home visits to these same people to remove doubt about their intentions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u35	It's about six people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u36	It also allows us to decide on the closure of places of worship where terrorist theses are professed. We had to strengthen the instruments for monitoring persons under surveillance; We have done so, re-thinking the use of police and intelligence files, including the radicalized person alert file. We had to adapt our organisation to the experience gained since 2015; We have done so by strengthening the coordination of intelligence services with the creation of the National Intelligence and Counter-Terrorism Coordination. We have redefined the Sentinel system in order to better protect the most vulnerable people and places of use. We have maintained the Vigipirate plan at the enhanced security level, adapting every quarter the posture to threats. We will do so by adapting our judicial organization with the strengthening of a national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office. The Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, headed by François Molins, has demonstrated its competence, its responsiveness and its ability to coordinate judicial action in intelligence work. We now wish to dedicate a team of magistrates not only to terrorist investigations, international cooperation, but also to combating radicalization throughout the country. The future prosecutor in charge of terrorism will be able to rely on delegated magistrates in the territorial prosecutors' offices, who will have jurisdiction in all regions to carry out acts on behalf of the national prosecutor. We will finally do this, ladies and gentlemen – I insist, because this is probably the most important node – by strengthening our resources, with the commitment to recruit 10,000 police officers and gendarmes during the quinquennium, of which 1900 will benefit the intelligence services directly. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must rearm the Republic in the face of the Islamic radicalization that threatens our society, not only when it leads to violence: it defies us, in truth, whenever the laws of the Republic are balanced with religious precepts, whenever, in a school, we insist on belief in resisting knowledge, whenever, in public space, the demands of life in society are violated. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, NG, GDR and FI groups rose and applauded at length. – Some Members of the LR Group applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, this fight is not just the fight of the Government, it is not just the fight of this legislature, it is a fight that, as we all know, will be long and difficult. Everyone who has been and who is responsible knows that, and I am sure that in the depths of themselves, all those who aspire to responsibility also know that. It is a difficult fight that we are going to wage, a terrible fight, body to body, which will give rise to successes – there have been some – and can translate into failures. In this respect, I would like to welcome the spirit that prevails in this House, I would like to greet all the group chairmen for the tone they have used, beyond the disagreements, and the fact that we all share this republican conviction. Every time there will be difficult moments, but we will struggle on foot because France is bigger and stronger than those who question it, because it has shown through its history, its culture, its strength that it was able to bring, year after year, month after month, day after day, the answers that are ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u37	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, LR, UDI-Agir and on a few benches of the group NG]] Before I resume the question-and-answer session of the Government in accordance with its usual procedure, I would like on behalf of you all to wish our colleagues Mrs Ramlati Ali and Mr Jean-Pierre Door, elected last Sunday in Mayotte and Loiret, a good return to our Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u38	Mr Pierre Person, for the Group of the European People's Party, on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u39	Prime Minister, seventy years ago, she escaped the horror of the Vél d'Hiv raid. Then she founded her family with a survivor of the Shoah. She had since become one of those lights that resisted the darkest hours of our history. But it was in 2018, in France, in a peaceful neighborhood, that the unimaginable happened: Mireille Knoll was murdered, killed with eleven stab wounds and then burned, probably because she was Jewish. [[Applause on all benches]] Anti-Semitism is not an opinion, it is always a crime. Anti-Semitism can sometimes even lead to criminal folly. Ilan Halimi, the victims of the Ozar Hatorah school in Toulouse or the Hyper Hider, Sarah Halimi: there are too many examples of lost lives. To attack a Jew is to actually attack the entire nation. Anti-Semitism, like racism, undermines the very foundations of our Republic. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] While terror has just struck in the Aude and anti-Semitic horror is mourning our country, it is our duty to make our national cohesion live around the great principles that unite us. Beyond confessions, origins or places of birth, it is the Republic that brings us together and must protect us. Combating anti-Semitism will never be a struggle of a community for its rights or a cult for its freedom of exercise. It is a social struggle, a fight for dignity, a fight for freedom, a fight around which the entire nation must gather. Tomorrow, we will be very numerous, whatever our convictions, to join in the white march to pay tribute to Mireille Knoll, and to recall all the news of Jean-Paul Sartre's quote: "Not a Frenchman will be safe as long as a Jew, in France and throughout the world, can fear for his life. " [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UAI, NG and FI groups and on several benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, aware of the seriousness of the threat, and even before this crime happened, you launched last week a major national plan to combat anti-Semitism. Can you remind us of the main measures, which I am sure will receive the support of the entire national representation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u40	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u41	Mr Person, a eighty-five-year-old woman died last Friday, at a time when she was alone at home and when she was sick. Above all, this woman, as you recalled, was rescued from the Shoah. She was the victim of a heinous act of unbearable anti-Semitism. This crime inspires us, basically, nothing but disgust and shame. From the shame of thinking that in France, in 2018, one can die simply because one is Jewish. From yesterday, the prosecution acknowledged the anti-Semitic motive for the murder of Ms. Knoll. This morning, the two defendants were charged and arrested. It will now be up to the judiciary to shed light on the circumstances and to establish the specific responsibilities of this crime, and to impose sanctions in connection with these acts. This case once again reveals the ravages of racism and anti-Semitism in our country, as the Prime Minister had the opportunity to recall on 19 March, by presenting the national plan to combat anti-Semitism. For this, we are engaged in a merciless struggle to stem the spread of hatred that we can see today on the Internet. We will mobilize the school institution, we will do everything we can to improve the reception and support of victims, to ensure the safety of religious and religious sites, and we will deploy other measures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Prime Minister will receive tomorrow in Matignon Mrs Knoll's family members to express his sympathy, but above all our firm determination not to let anything pass. I do believe that when one attacks a French citizen because of his origins or beliefs, one attacks what France has most precious: its principles, its living together, its values and, above all, its laws. We are confident that the Government, with the support of Parliament, will uphold these principles unwaveringly and with determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u42	Mrs Nicole Trisse, on behalf of the La République Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u43	Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, candidate Emmanuel Macron had made the reduction of the public deficit one of his priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u44	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u45	[[Protests on the benches of the NG group]] President Emmanuel Macron and the Government made it a clear goal from the beginning of the quinquennium. In 2017, France finally reduced its government deficit to a lower than expected level of 2.6% of GDP. The cumulative deficit of the State, local authorities and social security thus falls by 0.8 percentage points compared to 2016, when it reached 3.4% of GDP. The commitment of the President of the Republic has been fulfilled, thanks to the return of growth,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u46	Growth is not you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u47	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] ... but also to courageous decisions that we voted in this House. This fall in the deficit allows our country to regain its credibility with our European partners. We can now resume more calmly the negotiations on the establishment of a common fiscal and economic policy. This deficit reduction has been a first in ten years and is good news for public finances. Indeed, the political immobilization in which our country was plunged is indeed over.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u48	And the light was!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u49	However, we must continue our efforts in the face of a debt that continues to grow, because not reducing it would be irresponsible for future generations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] So, Minister, my question is: can you reaffirm the Government's commitment to the gradual recovery of our country and clarify your road map to that end?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u50	That's audacity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u51	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Member, we promised to go below the 3% mark and we kept our promise. We promised to honour our European commitments and, for the first time in ten years, France has kept its public deficit commitments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u53	Not thanks to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u54	So I hear those who explain to you that all this is the fruit of growth. But growth has not fallen from the sky!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u55	No, it's from the retirees' pocket!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u56	CSG up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Growth is the result of your decisions, the reform of the labour market and the tax reform that you have voted for, members of this majority, with courage. I hear those who tell us, on other benches, that we could have gone further in reducing public spending. But what did you, ladies and gentlemen, vote on our decisions to reduce the number of assisted contracts, to reform housing policy and to reduce government spending to reduce public spending? This courage, you, members of this majority, have had it! You can be proud of the courage you have shown!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u58	The retirees thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u59	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] But as long as we're in deficit, we're not in surplus. And as long as we're not in surplus, we're still in debt. Debt remains a slow poison, which weighs on French growth and on future generations. I therefore confirm to you, Madam Member, that together with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, Gérald Darmanin, we are fully committed to keeping pace with the reduction of public spending and debt, and the soundness of public finances. They've needed it for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u60	Mrs Aude Luquet, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u61	Mr. Minister of National Education, the President of the Republic announced this morning at the Assises de l'Ecole Kindergarten that the age of compulsory schooling should be reduced to three years. While this announcement appears, for some, as symbolic, it recognizes kindergarten as a real school oriented towards the development of the child, the acquisition of language, and the means to combat social inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u62	Mr. Blanquer invented kindergarten!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u63	Lowering the compulsory age of entry to school to 3 years is thus affirming the decisive importance of the first years of life for apprenticeships and preventing school drop-out by reaffirming the essential place of language in the construction of the child. As has already been pointed out in this Chamber, many children find themselves in difficulties of reading and understanding from elementary school. These poor-worded children are promised to mislearn how to read and write. For a long time as an example, kindergarten is now experiencing weaknesses in terms of supervision, with an average of 23 pupils per teacher, when in the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – OECD – this average is 14 children. Minister, why not draw on what you have initiated for the CP and CE1 classes, by extending the duplication of classes to kindergarten? While the number of teachers is crucial for the supervision of children, the question of their training also arises. The needs of children of this age require a specialisation of teachers, and the particularities of kindergarten, an adaptation of their curriculum. They should also be given the means to be innovative to get out of the usual patterns, to allow them the freedom to act with proven educational tools, to place the well-being of the child at the centre of their teaching. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] How do you intend to respond, Minister, to these new approaches in terms of both educational guidance and programme, the involvement of parents and all actors, whether they are the specialized territorial agents of nursery schools – ATSEM – or the facilitators of leisure centres, so that the child is at the heart of educational success?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u64	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u65	Madam Member, what happened this morning at the Centre national des arts et métiers, founded by Abbé Grégoire at the French Revolution, is to be marked with a white stone. Indeed, the history of our Republic is scanned by events that link the school and the Republic. Abbé Grégoire, in founding this centre, provided in some way for the challenges of lifelong learning, of which we are talking a lot today. During the second revolution, that of 1848, Marie Pape-Carpantier, whose memory must be remembered, invented the nursery school for France and, in a way, for the world. Then, during the Third Republic, Jules Ferry's law of 28 March 1882, whose anniversary we will celebrate tomorrow, introduced compulsory education. The age of compulsory education has not changed frequently during our republican history: it was fixed in 1882 and changed in 1936 and at the dawn of the Fifth Republic, in 1959, by the will of General de Gaulle. What is happening today is new, since it is a matter of increasing the length of compulsory schooling, but by starting school in early childhood at the age of three. This measure is extremely important because it focuses on what we know to be decisive in the child's journey, i.e. early learning, so as to make nursery school the school of development and the school of language. Although 97 per cent of children attend kindergarten, the remaining 3 per cent represent thousands of children who are currently in a situation of poor start-up because of their non-registration in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u66	That's not true! It's ideology!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u67	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is why this measure is extremely important not only in terms of principles, but also in practical terms, since we aspire to a kindergarten for all, a school of development and language.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u68	Mr Jean-Louis Masson, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, I come back – the news orders it – on the attack in Trebes. With the greatest solemnity, I, in turn, want to pay a vibrant tribute to my young brother-in-arms, Lieutenant-Colonel, soon Colonel, Arnaud Beltrame, who, with courage and self-denial, offered his life to save another. I express my deep emotion at this tragedy and express my deep sympathy and condolences to his loved ones and, more broadly, to the National Gendarmerie. I also have a thought for the other three killed, the 15 wounded in this new terrorist episode, and the families who are in pain. I have no doubt for a moment that everyone here shares these deep feelings. That being said, Minister, emotion must not blind us. As you know, the priority areas of city politics are, unfortunately, an environment favourable to these radical jihadists. The laws of the Republic are applied little or no. Police officers, gendarmes or firemen, sometimes paramedics, doctors or journalists, are regularly attacked or threatened. These outlying neighbourhoods are, in most cases, abandoned to criminal organizations, in the context of drug, arms and other trafficking, which organisations dictate their own laws, settle their accounts and take hostage countless helpless families and forced to omerta to avoid reprisals. As for the young, to the great shame of their parents, they are at the school of crime and exposed to the influence of the Salafists. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The supreme sacrifice of Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame brings us back to our cowardice and renunciation. The best way to pay him the tribute he deserves is to rearm the State wherever necessary, by restoring, if necessary and minimally, the state of emergency in all priority neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u70	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u71	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, almost a year after you took office, you can no longer take refuge behind your predecessors. What are the instructions you will give to neutralize the logistical structures that facilitate the passages into action of radical Islamists?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u72	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u73	Mr. Member of Parliament, just before the question-and-answer session in the Government, I was hosting the coffin of Arnaud Beltrame, with his wife and family. Believe me, it was a moment of deep emotion. The act he did is heroic: taking the place of a woman hostage and sacrificing her life. As the President of the Republic has said on several occasions, he is one of the heroes of our nation. Today, it has a special place in the history of our country. Member of the European Parliament, believe me, since I have been in the Ministry of the Interior, I have become aware every day of our difficulties. That is why we first maintained the state of emergency, and then passed the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism – SILT. I remember that he was often accused of being a liberticide at the time. We had to face these criticisms. The state of emergency would be the solution, you say. I just want to remind you that the attacks on Magnanville, Nice, Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray, Marseille-Saint-Charles, and the assassination of Xavier Juidlé on the Champs-Élysées were committed during the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u74	What a bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] So, yes, we have to move forward, but it will be a struggle of every moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u76	Which one?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u77	The next speaker is Mrs Michèle Peyron, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u78	My question is to Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health. Minister, the well-known adage "Prevention is Better Than Healing" is at the centre of your 2018-2022 health prevention plan that you presented yesterday with the Prime Minister. This plan is the result of a consultation in which, for the first time in France, all members of the Government are engaged. Prevention must be at the heart of our health care system, because it contributes to the improvement of the lives of the French – of all French people. It is the best way to minimize premature and preventable mortality. It also helps to combat as effectively as possible the inequalities in mortality resulting from gender, territory and social environment, which are not acceptable. Your health prevention plan, Minister, has a life-long impact on children, young people, adults, people with disabilities and people over sixty-five years of age. No one was excluded. Concrete measures are associated at all stages of our lives. In particular, you plan to set up a health path from zero to six years, the unlimited reimbursement of nicotine substitutes against smoking and other measures to combat addictions among young people. The French must become an actor in health prevention. That's why you're going to set up the health service for all health students. It will enable prevention interventions to be carried out throughout the country as part of the student curriculum. Indeed, we know that risky behaviours, such as binge drinking, are common among young people. Prevention among young people, young people and young people must therefore be promoted. Madam Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u79	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you, dear colleague. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u80	Madam Member, before answering your question,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u81	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u82	[[Applause on all benches]] ...I would like to pay tribute to the relief services and our caregivers who intervened on Friday following the attack in Trebes, including the emergency workers and the rehosts of the services of the hospital in Carcassonne, who tried, for a whole night, to save the life of the lieutenant-colonel. I also want to point out that one of our compatriots is still between life and death at the hospital in Perpignan, and that caregivers are at his side to save him. This is the young driver of the stolen car, Mr. Renato Silva, who was shot in the head. Madam Member, you are asking me about the prevention priority plan that we have announced, the Prime Minister and myself. It is an ambitious plan to change paradigms and to make prevention truly one of the pillars of our health system. It embodies the preventive revolution desired by the President of the Republic. We believe that interventions should be very early. So we chose to follow each individual in his life course. The goal of the plan is to enable everyone to be born, grow, live and grow healthy. All ministers have mobilized to propose actions in this area. You insisted on the children and you're right, MP. Children and young people are the target of social inequalities in health. We must therefore act very early. We have given priority to actions to combat addictions among young people. We extended early childhood consultations to 18 years of age. We will put in place out-of-wall consultations to help young people fight addictions in their school environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u83	Thank you for closing, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u84	And answer the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u85	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and FI groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] I am short of time to present this plan, but I wanted to pay tribute first of all to our health services, which are in the service of the French on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u86	The next speaker is Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u87	My question is to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior. On Friday night, in the 11th arrondissement of Paris, a barbaric crime was committed against a eighty-five-year-old woman. She was stabbed several times, and her apartment burned down. First of all, I want to acknowledge the work of the investigators, who quickly identified two suspects. The Paris Public Prosecutor's Office decided to retain the anti-Semitic character of their crime and to open judicial information for "murder because of the true or supposed membership of a religion and of a vulnerable person". Indeed, Mrs. Mireille Knoll, a survivor of the Vél d'Hiv, was Jewish. This assassination aroused a strong emotion in the country and in Paris, the capital of the Enlightenment, the city of freedom, tolerance and diversity. I have confidence in the ability of the inhabitants to jump and resiliency. It is necessary, because many fighters of humanistic values feel more and more powerless in the face of a phenomenon that is spreading! Let's remember Sarah Halimi's murder in the same district a year ago. Parisiennes and Parisians wanted to organize a white march, tomorrow Wednesday, place de la Nation, to make their voice heard against anti-Semitism and all forms of racism. When a person is murdered because of what he is deeply – his religion, his origin, the colour of his skin or his sexual orientation – the fundamental values of the Republic are being attacked. Anti-Semitism is an evil that dangerously gnaws our society. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Prime Minister, I know your commitment to the fight against anti-Semitism and all forms of racism. Can you indicate what structural measures your government intends to take to combat the scourge of radicalization of the spirits and hatred of the other?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u88	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u89	Like you, Member of Parliament, I was horrified by the violence and barbaric murder of Mrs. Mireille Knoll. Eleven stab wounds to kill and strip her before she burns her apartment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u90	It's not hard enough for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u91	As you said, the perpetrators of this murder were promptly found. I welcome the rapidity of the police services. But what is terrible is that one of the authors said to the other: "She is a Jew, she must have money! These are the stereotypes that are increasingly common in our society and against which we must fight. Since the beginning of the year, no fewer than thirty-three anti-Semitic incidents have been reported. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] As the Prime Minister said, we have developed a plan to combat anti-Semitism. We will carry out the necessary actions to push it back with all the actors in the Jewish community, because this cancer must not gnaw our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u92	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor for the La République Group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u93	Minister of National Education, this morning the foundation of the nursery school was opened. The President of the Republic announced the reduction of compulsory education to three years. We can be proud of our nursery school, that the countries of the whole world are resenting us. Our kindergarten is that of language, socialization, benevolence, play and learning – at the same time! It is the time of separation, which allows mothers to work; It is the time of tears, of fears surmounted, of songs, of laughter, of games, of discovery and friendships that are born; It is the time of affect and trust – or not – in the adult, in the guide, in the future; This is the moment when we try, when we have the right to fail and start over, when we imitate – and we must be the example, the imitation. This is where, in fact, we learn everything! Yet, 3 per cent of the children in our schools are missing, the very ones who risk not succeeding in their education. Sometimes children are not schooled in the afternoon in a small section, and absenteeism is greater in kindergarten than in elementary school. To think of kindergarten is to reduce inequalities, it is to give our children every chance of success and lead them to excellence. I even heard, "Before, they're babies! Before what, before the age of six, the age of compulsory schooling since 1882? What place do we give to our kindergarten so that it becomes the founding moment of our French school career? Before six years the child is already built; before six years the child has all the possibilities; before six years the child expects everything from us and we have a duty to bring it to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u94	What about the families?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u95	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, can you tell the national representative what our Republic's ambitions are for our children, our students, our future adults, in short, our kindergarten children? You have to be very small to be huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u96	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u97	Thank you, honourable Member, for reminding you of today and tomorrow at the National Conservatory of Arts and Crafts, of the foundations of kindergarten. This important event was held under the chairmanship of Boris Cyrulnik, a scientist well known for his work on early childhood and on the essential character of these early years. The extension of compulsory education is a measure of social justice, as you said: it will extend the benefit of kindergarten to all children. This is not the case everywhere today, for example overseas; In some territories, only 80 per cent of children attend kindergarten. This measure is also a measure of qualitative evolution for all children in this country, in the light of science. Many scientists are involved in this process; our knowledge of early childhood is evolving. The Romans, who just saw on many subjects, were wrong about it: they thought that childhood began after six years. We know that many things are happening before six years, and we must draw all the educational and social consequences of this knowledge. The first of these consequences obviously concerns the quality of childcare in kindergarten. Our teachers are excellent; We will strengthen their initial and continuing formation. We also have – as municipal officials know – remarkable specialized territorial agents in kindergartens, i.e., those responsible for school attendance with teachers. The ATSEMs are more than 50000: we need to recognize them more, to train them more. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We must also, through training, succeed in introducing a renewed pedagogy, a pedagogy of the twenty-first century, which combines two things that we must never oppose: development and academic success, since it is thanks to the former that the children will reach the second, from the preparatory course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u98	The next speaker is Mr Patrick Vignal, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u99	Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, I would like to associate all my fellow Members of the House of Commons with this issue; We met on Friday night, very concerned about the situation. When I was younger, I learned that education was the only weapon to fight violence. However, on the night of Thursday 22 March, unheard of violence took place on the premises of the University of Montpellier: men engulfed, armed with sticks, wanted to expel students who occupied the place to protest against the reform of the conditions of access to higher education that you presented. An armed group – similar to a militia of not so old a time – was able to enter the university. These armed delinquents have tried to do justice themselves, but there is no question of justice here! They have tried to impose their law, which, especially in a law school, constitutes an obstruction of democracy. We can also ask ourselves the question of the complicity that they have benefited from. French universities are once again in the throes of student protests; The universities of Toulouse, Grenoble, Lille and Paris-1 are being blocked. Colleagues, the university is a place to know, to exchange, to build the mind and not a place to demolish the human with pieces of nailed pallets! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and FI groups, as well as on several benches of the GDR, NG and MODEM groups]] Minister, there is no freedom without education, without culture. Youth isn't always right, but those who hit her are always wrong. Can you tell me what steps you have already taken, or are planning to take, to resolve this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u100	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u101	Mr President, you are right to point out that universities are a place of emancipation, but also a place to learn the argumented debate. Under no circumstances should his opinions be imposed on others, let alone by violence. That is why my first thoughts go of course to the three wounded students, as well as to all the students of the Paul-Valéry-Montpellier University and the University of Montpellier who were shocked by these events. As early as Friday evening, I commissioned the General Inspectorate of the Administration of National Education and Research to conduct an administrative investigation. It will establish the facts and the responsibilities, so that sanctions – which, I believe, will be exemplary – can be taken against the perpetrators, but also possibly against those who would have favoured this intrusion. It is extremely important for us to support young people in their learning of emancipation and reflection. We must be able to do so calmly, and certainly not by giving in to emotion; All legitimate and understandable that it can be, it will not help them to pass these difficult moments. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Beyond this administrative investigation, the president of the University of Montpellier has decided to file a complaint against X for intrusion and attack inside the university, and some of the students concerned have chosen this judicial route; I will also be very careful to accompany them and help them to have justice done.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u102	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u103	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u104	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u105	The next item is the explanations of vote on behalf of the groups and the vote by public vote on the draft law on military programming for the years 2019 to 2025 and on various defence-related provisions (No. 659, 765, 732, 762, 761).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u106	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Fabien Lainé, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u107	Mr President, Mr President and rapporteur of the Committee on Defence, Madam Minister of Armed Forces, ladies and gentlemen, this bill on military programming is an expression of awareness, that of threats that have changed, if not of a nature, at least of intensity. They are more complex and unpredictable than ever. And these threats force us. They oblige us to commit ourselves, to build, to prefer union to division, and cooperation to retreat. This project reflects these values and principles. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is very pleased with this. This text enshrines the rise in power of our armies towards the assumed objective of the President of the Republic to increase our defence effort to 2% of GDP by 2025. Beyond this figure, it meets a strategic requirement and legitimate expectations of our military by enabling us to repair and strengthen a defence tool that is now very much in demand. To conclude these hours of debate in committee and in open session, I would like to draw your attention to four essential aspects of this text, which we have together amended and enriched. First of all, let us look at the international context, whose strategic review last October provided a fine analysis in order to prepare the choices of the military programming law in terms of priorities and equipment. These choices are reflected in the indispensable commitment to maintain credible nuclear deterrence as the cornerstone of our defence tool. The MODEM Group is proud to have tabled amendments to complement France's strategic vision. We have proposed to take better account of the so-called "integrative" strategies of certain actors, on whose behalf economic and cultural conquest manoeuvres count at least as much as those of military conquest. France must indeed find an answer to these strategies. When we update the military programming law in 2021, it will be necessary, according to our group, to rely not only on the macroeconomic context in which we will be entering, but also on the strategic context, which is constantly evolving. Decisions must be made on the basis of strategic and operational needs, not just budgetary means. Moreover, and this is its second dimension, this text confirms with ambition and lucidity a model of a balanced army that affirms the strategic autonomy of France while assuming the necessary European cooperation. This strategic autonomy is ensured by the renewal and modernization of the pivotal operational capabilities, by the additional resources and personnel allocated to intelligence, cyber defence and the Armaments Branch, as well as by the support to our defence industry. Our group also welcomes the European ambitions of the text. In times of uncertainty, it is crucial to send our partners the message of a France that takes on its responsibilities. As we can see, we need our European partners in the Sahel, Libya and Ukraine. It is therefore time to give substance to European cooperation initiatives so that Europe that protects is a reality. Let me turn to my third point: our group wishes to welcome the budgetary sincerity of this text. Of course, an important part of the effort concerns the post-quinquennium, which calls for our collective vigilance. However, the Government has taken care to provide for an update in 2021 to ensure the end of programming with the Parliament in charge. Above all, the sincerity of this law is expressed in budgetary terms by the exclusive use of budgetary appropriations, and by the realistic increase in the provision dedicated to the financing of external operations, the OPEX. This was not the case in previous programming. Finally, I would like to refer to the fourth essential dimension of this text, the military condition. Our soldiers are the heart of our armies, they are the priority of our defence policy. There is no need to recall their courage; They demonstrated it a few days ago in the Sahel as on French territory. They deserve our full gratitude. In this respect, the text is very satisfactory, particularly when it provides for the development of personal protection equipment or the opening of political rights for them. My colleagues and I are proud to have moderated the debate on military participation in local politics. This is a great democratic step forward. We were also committed to promoting the engagement of our young people on military reserves, and we are pleased that this Assembly has associated itself with this concern. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] As you will understand, our group enthusiastically supports this ambitious, lucid and sincere bill for our armies and for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u108	Mr Olivier Becht, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u109	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, Mr Chairman of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a text that will commit our nation's finances for the next seven years by devoting almost EUR 300 billion to our armed forces. As we increase our efforts to reduce our deficits, I am sure that our fellow citizens are wondering whether it is really legitimate to spend so much to prepare for war in a world that aspires more than ever to preserve peace. Unfortunately, the dream of perpetual peace, caressed in the aftermath of the cold war, lived. Habited by the hope that the fall of the Iron Curtain would now allow a settlement of disputes by law, our Western nations have massively reduced their defence budgets. While this represented even more than 4% of GDP at the dawn of the 1980s, in 2015 we rose to 1.7%. This situation, perilous, has become untenable with the resurgence of threats. Al-Qaeda, Afghanistan, Daesh, the annexation of Crimea by Russia, Donbass or the Sahel made us understand how far away the ideal of total peace is. This is why the text before us this evening focuses first on the modernization of our equipment: on land, with 122 Leclerc tanks renovated, 150 Jaguar vehicles and 936 Griffon vehicles under the SCORPION programme; on the sea with five new frigates, four new nuclear attack submarines and studies for a new aircraft carrier; in the air with twenty-eight new Rafale, fifty-five renovated Mirage 2000D, eleven MRTT refuelling aircraft – Multi Role Tanker Transport –, eleven new A400M, twenty-four new drones and thirty-five new NH90 helicopters; Finally, with new systems of image and intelligence intelligence of electromagnetic origin comprising two new MUSIS satellites – a multi-national spatial imaging system for surveillance, reconnaissance and observation – and a new CERES system – a capability for spatial electromagnetic intelligence and listening. To this new equipment will, of course, be added the modernization of our nuclear deterrence with the commissioning of the missile M51.3. These supplies of equipment will then be accompanied by an important infrastructure modernization component to improve the daily lives of the soldier and his family, whether housing, bases or small equipment. This "man-made" LPM should thus make it possible to better retain civilian and military personnel. Finally, this law also includes an important cyber component that marks the new field on which the battle moves. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Of course, everything in this law is not perfect. In particular, we could have – and this is a small wink, Madam Minister – marked the ambition to equip France with a second aircraft carrier, in order to ensure the permanence of this strategic tool of intervention and superiority over the seas. We could also have dreamed of even more material appropriations or infrastructure. But how can we catch up, in seven years, with the twenty-five years of falling our appropriations, our staff and the operational capacity of our equipment? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups. -Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The UDI-Agir and independent group therefore prefers to see the glass three-quarters full rather than the empty quarter and will therefore vote without a state of soul for this bill, which is undoubtedly the best military programming we have had in twenty-five years. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, our country must give itself back the means to ensure the proper defence of the French and, beyond that, of the Europeans. For from our action against Daesh to the Levant, to the stabilization of Africa in the Sahel, to the measures of reinsurance in the face of Russia's appetites, it is indeed the defence of European interests that the French army assures today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u110	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u111	We'll see in four years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u112	While the arrival of artificial intelligence combined with the quantum computer could lead to a revolution on the battlefield similar to that created by the arrival of powder in the 15th century, we will need to mobilize research and development credits to meet these challenges. Can France do it alone as China mobilizes 150 billion euros on artificial intelligence and the United States relies on the power of GAFAM – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft? It's unlikely. Thus, the satisfaction of voting tonight a winback law should not cause us to lose custody. It is within the European framework that we will have to act tomorrow, both industrially and in terms of research, and therefore, first of all, politically, to build the tools that guarantee our superiority in combat. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Only at this price will we guarantee French and European sovereignty. Only at this price will we maintain the credibility of our army. Only at this price can we guarantee victory where our interests will be attacked. It is only at this price that we can win without fighting, that is, deter our enemies from attacking us. It is therefore only at this price that we can guarantee the peace to which our fellow citizens aspire.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u113	The next speaker is Mr Joaquim Pueyo, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u114	Mr President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, last week, a few hours after we completed our review of the military programming bill, our country was the target of another terrorist attack. With gravity and emotion, the National Assembly paid a solemn tribute a few moments ago to four of our compatriots who lost their lives in this tragic attack – fifteen others were wounded. This cowardly attack demonstrates once again that the threat is still present. All our forces of law and order are committed to defending our country and its values. We must therefore continue to strengthen the means necessary to carry out their missions. The military programming law for the years 2019-2025 is meant to be up to man. Referring to the 2030 ambition set out in the attached report, I find myself in the proposed guidelines. This ambition includes the key issues highlighted by the strategic review of defence and national security presented in November 2017. It is essential to maintain a complete military model, which will develop in the future with our allies, especially Europeans, while maintaining a capacity to intervene alone and first. We must continue the path towards a more integrated and truly effective Europe of defence. The permanent structured co-operations and the European Defence Fund will take part in these advances. It is within this framework that we must also think about our armies. If France must and will be able to deal with asymmetric threats, we must no longer underestimate the possibility of state threats as well as a more conventional confrontation. In order to fulfil these tasks, an additional effort has been announced regarding the orders and delivery times of equipment essential to our forces. Whether it's the SCORPION program, the FREMM – multi-mission frigate – or the patrol boats or the Rafale and MRTT, our soldiers are looking forward to these materials. I welcome the will shown, but, as I recalled in our debates, we will no longer be able to recede if we do not disappoint the French forces strongly. I count on your action and your determination, Madam Minister, to ensure that the announcements in this report are translated into action. In addition to these needs, we need both to look at infrastructure and to focus our attention on the condition of our military. A plan for renovation and then modernization must be developed. We must take an ambitious approach to improving the conditions of defence personnel. The opening of military participation in the mandates of municipal and community councillors is a step forward. However, we could have avoided setting thresholds to get to the end of the process.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u115	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u116	The family plan will also have to participate in this adaptation of our armies to the needs of the French of the twenty-first century. Loyalty requires better consideration of aspirations and accompaniment. Return-to-civilian arrangements are also essential. It is in this context that I have proposed an amendment to ensure that the salaries of our military are reviewed positively in the years to come, with the economic prospects allowing it. I regret that this amendment has not been successful. I welcome the adoption in this text of our amendments aimed at respecting the neutrality of the Internet and better informing Parliament about external operations, by submitting the report before 30 June each year. This report will inform the budgetary debates. Another positive point is that I recognize the efforts made to smooth out the OPEX provision and the internal missions. Although we remained committed to the idea that the interministerial should take its part when it comes to defending our fellow citizens, the difference between the provision and the total additional cost became out of date. In addition to these positive developments, I regret that some of our proposals have not received the attention of the majority, particularly those relating to improving the link between our armies and the nation. I remain convinced that the amendments relating to defence cadets or voluntary military service were expected and would have offered opportunities, especially to young people. Even as we face a need to rethink what binds us, these devices play a fundamental role. In this regard, I take note of your commitment not to place any form of universal national service on the budget of the Ministry of Armed Forces. I will raise to finish what seems to me to be the central and most problematic point of this LPM. Your majority has rejected several amendments aimed at better allocating the effort over the years 2019-2025, to make it more sustainable and not to postpone the largest budget increases in 2023, 2024 and 2025. Because of a favourable economic and financial context, this distribution was understood. It is, in our view, the central point, as I said, that it ensures the balance and the execution of this LPM. I therefore regret that we have not been able to reach a conclusion on this subject. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] Despite a positive will, the uncertainties are not removed. For this reason, the New Left Group will not vote against the text but will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u117	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u118	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with what could have been the conclusion: the La France insoumée group will vote against this bill on military programming, which sets out the budgetary guidelines of the French armies and defence policy for the period 2019-2025. Indeed, we have profound differences with the vision that you and the majority, the minister, propose. However, I would like to point out that we did not object to everything during the examination of the clauses of the bill: my parliamentary group was also able to vote on clauses or abstain. I am thinking in particular of Amendment No 17, which we have been able to adopt: this is rare enough to be stressed. This demonstrated the common commitment of all groups to the Republican struggles of equality between women and men and the fight against discrimination, including in the armed forces. I regret, however, that we have not been able to go any further on the issue of sexual orientation. It is with conviction that we will vote against this text, having developed, as you know, in the course of the debates, a geostrategic vision opposed to the one that presides over this LPM, which establishes a catalogue of means without first defining a new strategy for our defence and security policy. This insurmountable weakness of the project is characterized by the inability of the strategic review, often cited as a thread, to take stock of the policies carried out in this field under the previous quinquennats. This LPM only extends the previous ones, as well as the doctrine that inspires them and that we consider obsolete. The multipolarization of international relations and relations of forces, whether inter-State or non-State, and the geopolitical instability which requires a regeneration of French defence doctrine and strategy, so that they are adapted to contemporary parameters, are absent from this text. This law of military programming is that of the old world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u119	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u120	In particular, we disagree with the Manichean vision, inherited from the Cold War, which divides the world into two camps or two categories: that of good and that of evil, that of the Westerners and that of their adversaries – those of what I prefer to consider as a lapsus on your part, Madam Minister, when you spoke, in the course of our debates, in the middle of the night, of "our allies" and "our adversaries". The world is more complex than that! Of course, we have allies, but those who are not our allies are not our opponents. It's not that simple. At the same time, this LPM normalizes the OPEXs, while it is necessary to draw up a geostrategic balance sheet beforehand. It is now clear that there is a causal link between, on the one hand, military interference abroad and, on the other hand, both the lasting geopolitical destabilization of entire regions and the development of terrorist risk. Our group has asked for this assessment. Finally, NATO offers a diplomatic and military framework to American imperialism, which carries in it the war. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI and LaREM groups. - Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the experience of speaking from the top of a rostrum, but this constant chatter is unpleasant. The drink is a pleasant place to discuss.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u121	Mr. de Rugy doesn't do his job!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u122	I'm going on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u123	You're right, Mr. Corbière. Continue in silence and calm.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u124	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Dear friends, I would accept that you would intervene to destabilize me but chatting on other matters seems a shame to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u125	Then we'll take care of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u126	You're going to react, I'm going to go after NATO, it's your side! As I pointed out right now, NATO offers a diplomatic and military framework to American imperialism. To paraphrase the great Clausewitz, I would say that the NATO wars are nothing more than an extension of the aggressive policies of the United States by other means.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u127	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u128	In all this there is a bellicism that prevents France from intervening and putting itself at the service of peace, which it can only do if the conditions of its independence are guaranteed. However, it is the opposite: France puts at the service of this aggressive alliance the national means of its nuclear deterrence, thereby deviating the French doctrine in this field, since our strategy of deterrence states that Europe cannot be the scene of small wars. However, the deployment of the NATO missile shield in Poland is directly contrary to this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u130	The Europe of defence that you have repeatedly claimed during our debates is a chimera because the European treaties governing defence and security policy specifically state that it must be in line with NATO's strategy. It is therefore not a credible geostrategic alternative. Moreover, the concept of the West that prevails in this LPM poses a fundamental, political and philosophical problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u131	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u132	France is not part of a homogeneous cultural bloc that would naturally bring it to confront other nations on the model of the clash of civilizations. France is present on the five continents and has the second largest maritime territory in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u133	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u134	It is not based on cultural-ethnic considerations to define itself. Moreover, belonging to a so-called Western bloc...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u135	So what do we belong to?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u136	... obliges us to ideologically identify threats that Russia or China would represent. In practice, who knows the deep history...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u137	Please conclude, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, after trying to amend this text profoundly, we have failed to convince you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u139	Now we're in agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u140	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u141	We don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u142	[[Smile]] Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. The drink is open to you and, thanks to my colleague Ugo Bernalicis, you can drink good beers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u143	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u144	Down with the war!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u145	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u146	It's time to calm down!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u147	It's Dédé talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u148	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Mr President and rapporteur of the Committee on Defence, ladies and gentlemen, during three days of intense debates, we have defended an alternative line on a number of subjects which I must highlight again. First of all, we strongly oppose the obsession of the 2% of GDP devoted to the defence budget. This figure is not based on a scientific approach or on a study of the needs of the field – that is what we have tried in vain to show in order to evacuate it from the text. Instead of this abstract objective, we proposed to conduct a reflection – an audit, we said – in collaboration with all the soldiers, whether in the barracks or in external operation, and of course with the staffs to determine the real needs of the military. Perhaps these needs account for 2% of GDP, perhaps more, perhaps less... This is what we call "a man-made LPM". Yours is up to Donald Trump, because it was President Trump who punched on the table a few months ago so that the decision to devote 2% of GDP to the defence effort made at the NATO summit in Newport in 2014 could be respected. France has been quick to cooperate with NATO's constraints rather than to take into account the real needs of the soldiers. You have wiped away all our amendments, all our proposals on these points. That is a great pity, since we agree on the principle of increasing the military's appropriations if they improve the working, training and survival conditions of the military and protect our entire territory, including our huge exclusive economic zones too often forgotten. The question of defence Europe has also raised some legitimate questions, but until France and the other European powers leave NATO and its tutelary power enslaved to the military-industrial lobby, it is futile to embark on such an adventure. However, it is a Europe that defends its territory and acts with a diplomacy that is more effective than at present, detached from US budgetary and diplomatic constraints, which would allow us to go further together. As far as military expenditure is concerned, there is one which lags behind the stated objective of having a budget at the level of man: it is obviously nuclear deterrence. The cost of deterrence is a burden of 37 billion euros over the period covered by this LPM – 14.5 million euros per day, however! – imposed without discussion by the President of the Republic who wants to mark his reserved domain. The GDR Group strongly denounces the choices made in this area, including the modernization of M51 nuclear-headed missiles and improved mid-range air-to-ground missiles known as ASMPA. Again, during the debates, not a single sign of openness on the part of the majority or the Government! There is nothing to suggest that deterrence will one day be controlled by Parliament or that the people will have their say! There is nothing in favour of an audit to determine whether a single component would allow for a better balance between cost, efficiency and deterrence. Madam Minister, France must continue its efforts to promote global nuclear disarmament, which it has carried out since the end of the tests in 1996. But our discussions gave an overview of the climate around this issue: the President's voice, just the President's voice. Of course, we do not want a unilateral dismantling in the short term, but we want France to use its full diplomatic weight to combat proliferation in the world and to stabilize agreements, particularly in Iran and, who knows, in North Korea tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u150	Let France support the Non-Proliferation Treaty and make every effort to bring the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty into force! Accept, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, that the answers on these subjects have remained timid. We must not forget the real place of war in our democracies: the army only intervenes when diplomacy has failed, it is only its armed arm. It is good to recall this hierarchy in the face of too many going-in-war. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the FI group]] Given these major shortcomings and any missed opportunities to address them, the GDR Group will vote against this military programming bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u151	On the bill as a whole, the vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr Philippe Chalumeau, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u152	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, France needs its defence – General de Gaulle said at Bayeux sixty-six years ago – because it is the first reason for the state, which cannot be missed without destroying itself. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] All over the world, our soldiers, sailors, airmen are fighting for us. They fight terrorism to preserve our values; They risk their lives, both in France and elsewhere, for our security and our freedom. As our assembly prepares to proceed with this solemn vote, let us have in mind, at every moment, the strength and courage of all those women and men who have decided to commit themselves, to serve our country, and to live up to the missions entrusted to them, sometimes even to the ultimate sacrifice. Let us pay tribute here to those who died or wounded for France, like Corporal Bogusz Pochylski during our debates, to heroes like Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame who once fell so that we could live more. Our soldiers don't do an ordinary job – it's the notion of engagement. It is not ordinary to risk his life on a daily basis: we must be well aware of it and show ourselves, too, to the height. While our armies have been able to reform themselves in an incredible way, adapt themselves, act in full efficiency and maintain their rank, they have, for many years, been confronted with the very sharp contraction of their financial resources and personnel, the resulting capacity impasses and more, harsher and more distant operations. This situation could no longer be sustained. The balance of the world has changed over time. Terrorism continues to hit us very hard and the threat, less visible, remains there, sneaky and ubiquitous. The new ecological, economic and ideological challenges cause a significant and continuous rise in sovereignism and isolationism in all their forms, as well as a return to strength of the powerful states. France is a great military nation, the second largest army in the free world, Europe's first army, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, with deterrence. That is why, among other things, his voice is on the international stage. Our model is complete – from the smallest equipment to high-spectrum equipment – and must remain so. The military programming law gives us the full means: it increases the purchase of small equipment by 400 million euros, provides for the delivery of half of the SCORPION programme by 2025 and, at the same time, modernises our deterrence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u153	That's right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u154	Because France must be ready to intervene and defeat wherever its interests are threatened and where the international situation requires it, this military programming law sets the ambitious goal of devoting 2% of our GDP to national defence by 2025. The financing of our external operations will now be more sincere and set at EUR 1.1 billion from 2020. It is our autonomy to act in a calm, lucid and responsible manner. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] By paying unprecedented attention to the women and men who serve in our armies as well as their families, this law of military programming is undeniably up to man. It guarantees each member the highest standard of equipment. It ceases to make infrastructure the variable for adjusting the budget and spends €1.45 billion per year, an increase of 45%. The programmed maintenance of equipment to keep it operational, both in mission and in training, amounts to EUR 1 billion per year. Because there is no strong soldier without a happy family, this law of military programming complements the Family Plan to bring it to 530 million euros. These resources will be used to finance such basic needs as childcare and support for families during operational deployments. The Act also energizes human resources by providing for derogatory recruitment procedures for posts of staff who are difficult to fill, particularly in areas of tension. A major fact that also illustrates the real and factual will of a new trajectory, it incorporates the creation of 6,000 full-time equivalent net pay positions over the period, mostly in the priority areas of cyber defence and digital. This law of military programming is finally that of the armed-nation link: it perpetuates voluntary military service and maintains the target of 40,000 operational reservists. It gives our members a new right, that of being elected municipal or community councillor, while respecting the inevitable duty of reserve and the necessary operational readiness. Thus, beyond the consideration given to our soldiers by giving them the means to serve, the law opens society to the military, who are citizens above all. Finally, and to the credit of our Parliament, this law of military programming is enriched by the necessary parliamentary control of its execution, this time enshrined in the hard of law, which may have been lacking before. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] That ambition, ladies and gentlemen, we must achieve it. The resources provided by the nation, and this year, force us to succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u155	Slow down, Mr. Chalumeau! Breathe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u156	Let him talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u157	[[Same movements]] This military programming bill offers us the full means, and I have every confidence in our collective determination and the effectiveness of our armies in achieving this. [["Ah!" on several benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is why the La République en marche group will vote, with vigour and unequivocality, for this text, which marks a historic rise in the power of our armed forces, for the French, for their security and for their freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to return to calm to listen to the last explanation of vote. I assure you that it is very painful to speak in the hustle and bustle, as Mr Corbière, Mr Chassaigne and Mr Chalumeau must have done.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u159	Not for me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u160	The next speaker is Mr Charles de la Verpillière, for the Group of the Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u161	Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the National Defence Committee, ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday, at the first session devoted to the review of the military programming law for 2019-2025, the Republicans Group had agreed on two points of agreement, on the analysis of the threats facing our country and on the objectives of the LPM: to repair worn-out forces by five years of intensive engagement, to give priority to the condition of personnel, their personal equipment and families, and to prepare for the future by launching the major programs of the future – the new aircraft carrier, the air combat system of the future, the renewal of nuclear submarines that launch vehicles and the modernization of the airborne component of our nuclear deterrence. However, we also noted ambiguities, gaps and inaccuracies that made us doubt the realism – and even sincerity – of your financial commitments. The debates in committee and then in the Chamber have helped to resolve some of these problems. The new Article 6 bis confirms, as we wished, that the investments of the armies will not be subject to the ceiling of the remaining payments provided for in Article 17 of the Law on the Programming of Public Finances. Similarly, new sections 6b and 6c give Parliament essential powers of control over the implementation of the MPA. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Indispensable, these powers are all the more so since the financial trajectory of your LPM is, in fact, not credible. First of all, your bill covers a period of seven years, longer than the previous ones, and it is, as a coincidence, split into two stages: from 2019 to 2022, the defence budget would increase by 1.7 billion euros per year, then, in 2023, 2024 and 2025, that is, during the next quinquennium, the annual increase would increase to 3 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u162	We shave for free!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u163	[["Yes! » on several benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] So your successors will pay. You are assuming this, moreover, since you have refused all our proposals to distribute the increase uniformly over the seven years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u164	He's not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u165	[["Exactly! » on several benches of the LR group]] Secondly, part of the increase in the defence budget will be absorbed by the "OPEX provision", which will increase from 650 million to 1.1 billion euros per year. Thus, other ministries will no longer have to contribute, and the Ministry of Armed Forces alone will bear the weight of these external operations. [["Yes! » on several benches of the LR group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Thirdly, the objective of raising the national defence effort to 2% of GDP is also a trompe l'oeil. Despite our requests, you did not want to write down how the ratio is calculated: will you also take military pensions into account? If so, the 2% of GDP will be reached by 2022 and you will not fail to glorify it. If, on the other hand, military spending is based strictly on sensu, the 2% target may not even be achieved by 2025. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, did you tell the military – and did they understand it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u166	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u167	Finally, the same vagueness surrounds the funding of the universal national service project: will the military budget have to contribute to it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u168	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u169	[["Very good! » on several benches of the LR group]] You said no, but why did you stubbornly refuse to write it? What's bothering you? It is because you know that, if that were the case, the entire budgetary balance of your MPA would be at stake. [[Exclaims and smiles]] [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Madam Minister of Armies, you will allow me, to sum up our thoughts, to quote – once it is not customary – Mrs Martine Aubry: "When it is unclear, it is because there is a wolf. » [["What courage! » on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Faced with these ambiguities, gaps and contradictions, the Republican Group chose to abstain. That will be a responsible abstention, because the subject is serious. It is the security of the French that is at stake, as well as the effectiveness of our armies and the influence of our country in the world. It will also be a vigilant forbearance: we do not want to give you a blank cheque and we will pay particular attention to how the LPM will be executed for 2019-2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, before we put the whole text to the vote, I would remind you that we have devoted 26 hours and 40 minutes to this text and considered three hundred and twenty-eight amendments, of which sixty-five have been adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u171	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u172	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u173	Mr President and rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I take the floor only to thank you and to express my gratitude for the remarkable work that has been done during these many hours of debate, which has enriched this text, because you have kindly amended it and a number – or even a large number – of amendments have been adopted. This broad vote is a sign of the support expressed by the entire national representation to our armed forces. You had the opportunity this afternoon to express it solemnly. I think you confirm this with this vote. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Beyond recognition, it is also a signal to our armies: the signal that the sacrifices are over, the signal of renewal for our armies and the signal of the upsurge. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] With this vote, you have shown your willingness to repair the past and invest in the future. Tomorrow – more precisely: soon – this text will be submitted to the Senate and I am proud to present a text that has been, thanks to you, improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u174	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u175	[[The sitting was suspended at 17.05 p.m. and resumed at 17.15 p.m. with Ms Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u176	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u177	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Raphaël Gauvain and others transposing the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure (No 675, 777, 775).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u178	Mr Raphaël Gauvain, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u179	Madam President, Mrs Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, the draftswoman for opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, there are debates in which the rapporteur has a decisive role: to dispel misunderstandings and to ease fears. To do so, he must explain, over and over again, the actual scope of the device in question. That is how I see my speech in front of you this afternoon. What is the purpose of the bill before us? The aim of this text is, no more or less, to transpose a European directive which was debated and voted on almost two years ago on 8 June 2016. There is an urgent need to adapt our law on this point, because the Member States only have until 9 June to transpose this directive on business secrecy, otherwise we would face significant financial sanctions. It is this urgency that explains the choice to go through a bill. However, this transposition text is the result of a wide-ranging work. If the initiative goes to the majority group, the drafting was carried out with the support of the Chancellery: I thank the minister for the valuable assistance of her services. This work continued 15 days ago at the Conseil d'Etat, which was willing to examine this text in very strict time limits; he gave a valuable opinion to further improve his drafting and to remove some inaccuracies. This bill was then discussed last week by the Committee on Economic Affairs, whose draftsman, Christine Hennion, I welcome: she took an active part in our work. The Law Committee, for its part, debated this bill throughout the morning, and adopted no less than forty-six amendments, mostly of a drafting nature. For this, it relied on the opinion of the Council of State – which I have already mentioned – to clarify the scope of the text. It has sometimes returned to a wording closer to that of the directive, as our colleagues Philippe Latomb and Marietta Karamanli invited it to do. Why protect business secrecy? This bill is intended to fill a legal gap: in France, the protection of business secrecy is essentially a matter of the jurisprudential application of the rules of ordinary law on civil liability. Yet many countries, including our economic competitors, and in the first place the United States, have long had an effective legislative arsenal to defend their businesses. The bill intends to remedy this by providing our country with a clear and precise legal framework. It is about protecting our companies, their know-how, their innovations, protecting their brains, in short, against economic espionage, industrial looting or unfair competition. It is an imperative necessity. In this regard, pedagogy must be shown. Companies contain several types of confidential information: on the one hand, technical information or secrets, protected within the meaning of property law by specific legal regimes; on the other hand, commercial, economic or financial information or secrets. The latter are of paramount importance to companies, their survival and development: for example, customer or supplier files, business methods and strategies, information on costs and prices, development projects, claims, market studies. I would like to reassure Mr Ruffin: not all of this confidential information is intended to be protected under business secrecy; Only those which correspond to the definition criteria specified in the Directive will be covered. I would add that these criteria were not dictated by any Brussels lobby, as I heard last week. The directive on business secrecy is very directly inspired by the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights signed in 1994, together with the treaty establishing the World Trade Organisation, and declined by many countries in their domestic legislation – but so far, not in France. Is the directive, on some points, "over-transposed"? The answer is no, certainly no. The proposal for a law faithfully transposes it: it remains as close as possible to the directive and removes unnecessary adaptations where possible. In particular, we have preferred – and this is a political choice – that mechanisms to protect and compensate for the secrecy of cases should only be implemented through civil channels. The idea of a specific criminal offence for breach of business secrecy – which is undoubtedly, by parenthesis, at the origin of the failure of previous legislative attempts – has thus been deliberately ruled out. On one point alone, we have been led to retain the margin of manoeuvre left by the directive, without exceeding what it allows, and therefore without "over-transposing" it: it is the extension of the protection of the confidentiality of cases to all judicial and administrative proceedings. The hearings of magistrates and lawyers specializing in these matters, and above all the opinion of the Council of State, have indeed highlighted a weakness in the arrangements that we had originally planned. At the outset, we had limited special measures to protect the confidentiality of cases in judicial proceedings only to those instances where the violation of the confidentiality of cases was directly alleged. We found that this arrangement would be easily circumvented if we did not extend to all bodies the possibility for the judge to decide on these protective measures. In this regard, it should be recalled that judges – both administrative and judicial – are already confronted with the problem of protecting the confidentiality of cases in court, and have put in place practices to ensure the confidentiality of cases and respect for the principle of adversariality. It is now a matter of providing a clear legal framework for such practices. One last question remains: is the freedom to inform or alert threatened? This is the main concern raised by the bill. The debate has already been decided at the time of the discussion of the directive, after a broad consultation, lengthy debates and a vote in favour of almost 80% by European parliamentarians. This positive vote was achieved through very important derogations for journalists, whistleblowers and staff representatives. We cannot extend these exceptions further unless we ignore the directive and our European commitment. I would add that the wording we have chosen, which refers to the definition of the whistleblower given by the directive, is also based, through the formula "including", on the procedures and definition adopted in 2016 within the framework of the Sapin 2 law. These two definitions are cumulatively associated, so that whistleblowers will benefit from better protection. Finally, on my proposal, and unanimously, the Committee on Laws has created a rather new mechanism to effectively combat abusive procedures that could be initiated by companies against journalists and whistleblowers. It is a question of responding to their fear of what is known as "bag-procedures", these judicial strategies developed solely to destabilize their opponent by multiplying procedures and demanding very significant damages. The judge will now have an autonomous system of civil fine that is quite dissuasive, in addition to the damages that could be awarded to journalists and whistleblowers, in order to sanction a manifestly unfounded application or a proceeding improperly initiated, dilatoryly or in bad faith. We are thus aiming at the objective set by the directive of a more effective protection of defendants. It will be an additional tool in the hands of the judge, who will remain in control of its use on a case-by-case basis, for he is – and has always been – the master of the articulation between freedom of information and the secrecy of cases. Protecting our businesses while preserving the freedom to inform: this is the office of the judge. The directive and the proposed law do not change this balance. This bill does not in any way affect freedom of the press or freedom of expression. Scandals such as those of the Mediator, or cases such as Panama Papers or LuxLeaks can always be brought to the public square. Journalists, whistleblowers and employee representatives will be able to continue to do their job, and it is always the judge who will decide, in judicial proceedings, on the derogations they will be able to benefit from in case of disclosure of a business secret. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and NG groups]] It seemed important to me to clarify the actual scope of the bill on these issues before the debate began. There is no doubt that we will have the opportunity to come back to this by examining the amendments, on which I shall endeavour to give you detailed explanations each time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u180	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u181	Madam President, Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the transposition into national law of the European directive on the protection of business know-how and business information, which is before your House today, must enable France to fulfil its obligations vis-à-vis the European Union and to adopt a balanced system of protection of business secrecy under domestic law. As the rapporteur rightly pointed out, the protection of business secrecy is essential for the development of innovation and the maintenance of the competitive advantages of our companies. It is a powerful element of the attractiveness of our right, starting from our economy. Remember that when a company invests in a research and innovation process, it gathers information that may not be protected under intellectual property rights and yet must remain confidential. These secrets are particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises as well as for start-ups, who often do not have the specialized human resources, nor the financial basis to register, manage, enforce and protect intellectual property rights. Beyond technological knowledge, a company must also maintain the confidentiality of information about its customers, suppliers, business strategies or business plan in order to remain competitive. The knowledge-based economy is at stake here and this is a major issue, as the economic and legal study carried out by the European Commission in April 2013 in the context of the drafting of the directive showed perfectly. The requirement of transparency within the economic world cannot be total: the proper functioning of competitive markets requires a minimum of confidentiality. It is therefore legitimate for companies to protect themselves from industrial espionage and to ask for the protection of their business secrets. In France, as in other European Union countries, companies are currently not without legal means to prevent, stop or repair violations of the secrecy of their business. The ordinary law of civil liability may be invoked before the trial judge or the trial judge. Misappropriation of business secrets can also constitute a criminal offence such as theft, abuse of trust, fraud or intrusion into a computerized data system. However, it must be noted that in civil matters there is currently no legal framework, since the common law of liability is mainly of jurisprudential origin. The proposal for a law transposing the European Directive on the protection of business know-how and business information provides economic operators with the legal certainty necessary for their growth and the development of their research activities, which is a source of many jobs. Now, as the rapporteur has explained, the nature of the protected information will be precisely defined; the conditions under which a legitimate secret may be obtained will be expressly indicated; unlawful conduct in obtaining, using or disclosing business secrecy will be stated; the cases in which protection cannot be granted will be specified; Finally, the measures which may be taken by the judge to prevent, stop or remedy an infringement of the confidentiality of cases will be determined. First of all, I would like to thank in particular Mr Raphaël Gauvain, who took the initiative to defend this proposal for transposition before national representation. I believe it is desirable for Parliament to take up subjects of interest to Union law for which a broad public debate is indispensable. This is indeed the case with regard to the legal protection to be granted to the confidentiality of cases. The legislative process which has been carried out will not only lead to a very thorough reflection on the relationship to be ensured by law between the fundamental rights in question, but also to a wide consultation of all the stakeholders, in the continuity of the work carried out by the European Commission and the European Parliament when the directive was adopted. I would like to point out that the bill before you is the result of a virtuous and exemplary collaboration between the Government, in particular the Chancery, which is responsible for carrying out this reform, and Mr Gauvain. It is the guarantee of a text based on solid legal bases. Following a first phase of analysis and consultation led by my departments, especially the Directorate for Civil Affairs and the Seal, with the very active support of the departments of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Culture, a constructive dialogue was initiated with the rapporteur on the various issues raised by the text of the directive. The bill has also been enriched by extensive consultations conducted by the rapporteur, who has listened to and taken into account the various legitimate concerns expressed by representatives of companies, employees, journalists, press publishers and non-governmental organizations concerned with the protection of whistleblowers, magistrates and lawyers. The draft law was finally submitted to the General Assembly of the Council of State, which, on 15 March 2011, in the continuation of its opinion of 22 March 2011, gave a very enlightening opinion on the main guidelines taken with regard to the margin of manoeuvre left to the Member States to strengthen the protection of business secrecy. In particular, the Council of State invited national representatives to consider extending the measures to protect the confidentiality of cases provided for in Article 9 of the Directive to any judicial proceedings involving the confidentiality of cases. In this respect, I would point out that while the purpose of the Directive on the protection of business secrecy is to ensure a minimum level of protection of this secrecy in all the countries of the Union, national legislators have the possibility of providing for more extensive protection in their own legal system. The proposal for a law originally tabled by the rapporteur was strictly transposing the provisions of the directive. In particular, the procedural tools for the protection of the confidentiality of cases provided for in Article 9 of the Directive were limited to procedures aimed at the prevention, cessation or reparation of an infringement of a business secret. However, after the important work of consultation and consultation carried out by the rapporteur, it became clear that the text thus drafted did not allow for an effective solution to situations in which a competing undertaking was illegitimately aware of a secret of cases in judicial proceedings on a completely different basis than that of the protection of that secret. The aim here is to strengthen the system of protection of the confidentiality of cases by preventing parties to proceedings before a judicial or administrative tribunal from having access to information covered by the secrecy of cases when such information is not necessary for the exercise of their rights. Currently, the courts, which regularly face requests for the protection of the confidentiality of cases in connection with the production of documents before any trial on the merits or in the course of the proceedings on the merits, have introduced diversified practices. The framework proposed by the rapporteur is a sure guarantee of legal certainty and attractiveness of our judicial system, particularly for foreign economic operators. The balance found between, on the one hand, respect for the fundamental principles of civil procedure, first of all the principle of adversariality, and, on the other hand, the protection of the confidentiality of cases, seems to me to be very satisfactory. On the one hand, the proposed adaptation to the adversarial principle will be strictly proportionate to the aim pursued and limited to the debate on the need to produce a document which may contain a secret of business. If the judge considers that the production of this piece is necessary for the exercise of the rights of the parties, including the rights of the defence, such production shall be ordered notwithstanding the confidentiality invoked. It follows that there shall be no infringement of the principle that the court shall determine the dispute in the light of material brought to the attention of all the parties. On the other hand, the judge may have a range of measures that will improve the conditions for judicial debate. If it considers it necessary, the judge may limit the disclosure of the exhibit to some of its elements or order it in the form of a summary, so that only the information strictly necessary for the dispute will be brought to the attention of the parties. Of course the judge will only order these measures after a check of proportionality between the right of one party to maintain the confidentiality of certain information and the right of another party to access certain documents during the judicial debate. Beyond the issues related to judicial proceedings, I know that the bill before you is getting some reaction. Some fear a restriction of public freedoms. Journalists and press publishers fear being prevented from informing. It is claimed that scandals such as Mediator or bisphenol A, Panama paper or LuxLeaks could no longer be brought to the attention of citizens. I would like to state with force and conviction that the transposition of the directive on the protection of business secrecy will not entail any restriction of public freedoms, as is clearly stated in Article 1 of the directive. The protection of business secrecy in Europe and France is not new: it will now be better regulated, for the benefit of all. In particular, it is very important that the law provide a precise definition of the concept of business secrecy. Any information held by a company cannot be protected as a business secret: only the information known to a limited number of persons, of commercial value and subject to reasonable measures of protection in order to keep it secret. In addition, and above all, a strong principle is laid down whereby any request for the protection of business secrecy will be rejected when the acquisition, use or disclosure of business secrecy occurs in the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information, in order to reveal, for the purpose of public interest and in good faith, a fault, illegal activity or, more broadly, a reprehensible conduct which, if not illegal, is likely to have serious consequences. Therefore, in the event of disclosure to the public, by a whistleblower or journalist exercising his right to freedom of expression, of information covered by business secrecy, companies will not be able to obtain a legal measure prohibiting publication. The courts guarding individual freedoms will exercise a review of legality and proportionality. Pursuant to Article L. 151-6 of the Commercial Code of the proposed law, they will balance the interests involved by ensuring that no conviction can be given against a whistleblower within the meaning of Article 6 of Law No 2016-1691 of 9 December 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life. Finally, it cannot be a matter of business secrecy to inform that an undertaking has a legal obligation to make public, such as its accounts deposited in the annex to the register of trade or companies. A company can no longer oppose investigations by the judicial or administrative authorities by availing itself of its right to the protection of secrecy. In conclusion, I would say that in a democratic society transparency cannot be complete and that certain secrets must be preserved, including within companies. The proposal for a law tabled by the rapporteur, who faithfully transposes the European directive on the protection of business secrecy, is a text which seems to me to be balanced in the light of all the interests which must be preserved. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Once again, I would like to thank Raphaël Gauvain and the members of the Law Committee for the work they have done, as well as the Working Republic Group, which has taken the initiative of examining this important and, I believe, very useful text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u182	Mrs Christine Hennion, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u183	Madam President, the keeper of the seals, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering a text on the protection of the know-how and business information of our companies. The Committee on Economic Affairs has taken up the present bill for its opinion because the subjects of economic intelligence fall directly within the scope of its competence. We very much share the choices of transposition that correspond to a true ambition to protect business secrecy in our national law. At the same time, the bill does not grant anything in the field of the defence of fundamental rights and freedoms – in particular, on the issue of whistleblowers, the legal framework laid down by the Sapin 2 law is not affected by the present transposition but the complete one: our right is therefore becoming more protective. In this context, I support the amendment tabled in committee by my colleague Raphaël Gauvain against the gag procedures. Why is this bill necessary? In an open world, in the midst of a digital transition, the added value of a company, the attractiveness of its model, its strengths in global competition are the result of its imagination, its innovative character, the risks it takes and the investments it makes. However, industrial espionage no longer consists only of physically entering a factory to steal a prototype, but also of entering information systems remotely in order to copy an algorithm or data. According to the Directorate-General for Enterprise, more than 1,000 "significant hostile acts" – the reality is probably more important – are recorded each year against economic actors. Our competitors also use the law to serve their economic interests: I am thinking in particular of the discovery procedure in the United States, which forces our companies to disclose a great deal of sensitive information to American jurisdictions in the context of sometimes very indirect litigation. The European Union has fallen behind the US or China, which make economic influence an essential focus of their foreign policy. France and Europe must guarantee their assets in the global competition for the innovation economy. At the same time, we are entering a knowledge-based economy where innovation and progress come from open innovation, knowledge-sharing, "co-petition" and collaboration within ecosystems. French companies, of all sizes, must have a real strategic thinking in order to decide which information can be shared, open more widely or necessarily kept secret. This may be information as different as their know-how, marketing strategies, innovative organisational processes, or their algorithms, databases, and software that sometimes form the core of their business model. We must therefore be able to protect and guarantee the safety of our assets! Business secrecy is a complementary legal response to all the defensive measures that companies currently hold: patent or trademark law, intellectual property law, copyright protection, or the Soleau envelope, issued by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Companies will have to quickly seize this new legal weapon. They will have to identify the information to be protected and put in place relevant legal and technical means: access bans, protection of information systems, digital hygiene rules, contractual confidentiality clauses and so on, as required by law. I would stress one point of vigilance, which is the subject of an amendment: the cooperation of the Member States in the protection of business secrets. Recital 33 of the Directive states that "In order to facilitate the uniform application of the measures, procedures and reparations provided for in this Directive, it is appropriate to provide for cooperation systems and exchanges of information between Member States, on the one hand, and between Member States and the Commission, on the other hand, in particular by establishing a network of correspondents designated by the Member States. This is not provided for in the proposed law, but it is fundamental: the European Union must create an integrated and harmonised network of economic intelligence that protects its interests and those of its companies. I therefore propose that a national correspondent be planned to organise and participate in this economic intelligence network, first in France and then with its European counterparts. This could be the Commissioner of Strategic Information and Economic Security, which was created by an Order in Council in 2016. We will be debating this, but I believe that the legislative catch-up is essential in order to underline the imperative nature of this European coordination. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and on several benches of the LR group]] In the course of the discussion, I will present three other amendments aimed at improving the effectiveness of the transposition of the European directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u184	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u185	Hello! I brought you three documents. The first, from Price Waterhouse Coopers, bears the Luxembourg logo. It concerns the firm GlaxoSmithKline International and establishes the complicity of Mr Juncker's country in the processes of tax evasion. This is the original document of the LuxLeaks. The second is an internal document with DuPont de Nemours, a chemical producer. The doctor's memo, dated 1984, reveals the carcinogenic effects of C8, a perfluorinated compound, and points to a significant and obvious risk that the molecule will escape from the plant and contaminate local populations. It will not be made public until almost fifteen years later! The third document concerns Mr Bolloré this time and the manner in which he obtained the concession from the port of Kribi, while his offer was eliminated by the officials. In this case, it may be thought that this is not due to the invisible hand of the market. Can these documents still be released?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u186	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u187	That's the question. Do you put in place one more instrument to prosecute the employee, to prosecute the whistleblowers, to search their homes, to search their hard drive? You asked me, Mr. Rapporteur, if I would be reassured. I'm not, and I'm not the only one. You know that a forum has appeared in which a number of organizations express their concerns, including non-governmental organizations – Anticor, Sherpa, Greenpeace – but also journalists from Échos, the World, Point, BFM, First Lines. I quote them: "... the definition of "business secrets" is so broad that any information internal to a company can now be classified in this category. » This is what Baker McKenzie's lawyers had identified in Brussels and which they stated in a document addressed to the European Commission: "The secrecy of cases appears to be the perfect tool for the protection of intellectual property because there is no general limitation on the subjects concerned". There is no general limitation on the subjects concerned! It is obvious that if business secrecy had been strictly regulated, which it had concerned – as the title of the bill indicates – the protection of know-how and, as we have been told, research and innovation, technological knowledge, we would not have had any difficulties with this text! The problem is that almost anything can get in there! The definition is so broad and broad that it can extend to all business documents, tax, social, environmental data. I will return to the debate on the definition that is proposed, but I can already say that it falls within the scope of tautology: it is defined as "business secrecy" what companies themselves define as such. This definition, or rather, in this case, this "indefinition", this vagueness, this wave, is the object of a victory won by the lobbies in Brussels – I was going to say "of a struggle" but is the term just so little fought? Rather, they met with allies and accomplices in this institution. Mr rapporteur, I would like to go back to the origins of this directive. Today we are asked to be the little telegraphists of Brussels, but yesterday Brussels became the little telegraphist of the lobbies. It seems to me that it is interesting for the citizens to see how the laws are made, there, behind this building, this massive facade of glass and iron, the Berlaymont, the seat of the European Commission. At the beginning of 2010 there was a lobby, the Trade secrets and innovation coalition, the TSIC, which at the time called for "harmonisation of business secrecy at European level". This lobby has no website, it is very secret about its activities. When asked, the only answer is: "We refuse to comment." I quote some of its members: on the French side, Air Liquide, Alstom, Michelin, Safran, American side DuPont de Nemours, General Electric, Intel, Swiss side Nestlé. It is therefore not just a question of protecting European firms: it is a question of protecting firms at short notice. How does the Commission accept this request? With enthusiasm! I would like to quote from an e-mail from Michel Barnier, then European Commissioner for the Internal Market, whom he sends to the lobby as he prepares to launch a study on the subject of business secrecy. "My hope is to be able to demonstrate that all knowledge-based enterprises, and in particular SMEs, are based on business secrecy." This is a well-orientated search! My hope, my hope! The European Commissioner continues: "I sincerely hope that your organisation – this is a lobby, I remind you – will continue to assist us in achieving this goal and I am pleased to hear from my services the excellent cooperation to date. We have the findings before the investigation! We have more than one closeness: an complicity. What is the aim of the study commissioned by Mr Barnier? Moving towards a "harmonized approach", i.e. exactly the previous lobby request. A conference is organised at the initiative of the European Commission. How do we find speakers at the roundtable? Who are we turning to? Towards the Business Europe lobby! This is very effective since half an hour after the message was sent to Business Europe, three industry speakers confirmed their presence at the round table. One speaker is not from the business world, an Italian academic, but he is also chosen by lobbyists. According to the report, the impact of "business secrecy" on the rest of society and, in particular, on journalists, whistleblowers, employees was not discussed. It is also this lobby, the TSIC, which has chosen for the Commission the journalists to whom we had to address! Bloomberg, Les Échos, the Financial Times... where we knew feathers would go in the right direction. Let's go to the end of this construction of the directive. A public inquiry is then conducted. What is the Commission doing? "We believe that Business Europe can play an important role and mobilize companies to engage in this exercise. Should it be made clear that the European Commission does not send the same e-mail to non-governmental organisations, that it does not send the same e-mail to trade unions? She's just addressing it to Business Europe! Despite this request for support from companies, 75 per cent of the individuals who spoke in this public survey were against new legislation on business secrecy. The Internal Market Directorate-General then revives the other lobby, the CITT, to support the directive on business secrecy. In November 2013, on the day the European Commission publishes its proposal for a directive, the TSIC sends a message of congratulations to the Directorate-General for Internal Market. That's it, business secrecy is harmonized! We have been talking about fiscal and social harmonisation for thirty years, and after thirty years, Anne, my sister Anne, we still don't see anything coming! But for them, in three years, it's okay, it's folded, it's in the box! We are used to translating the word "lobby" into French by the expression "groupe de presse", but when we see how the construction of this European directive went, we think that they didn't even have to press! They have returned to the European Commission as well as to butter! This reminds me of the words of the Belgian academic Geoffrey Geuens, who told me that the word "lobby" is too nice, because it gives the feeling that the pressure is coming from outside, while the European Commission is itself full of private interests. The proverb says: "A swallow is not spring. But today there are no more swallows, neither in spring nor before. When I was a kid and we saw the swallows flying in a rattle, we knew there was going to be a storm. We lived with them, with their nests of land and straw standing by our houses. But all this has almost disappeared.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u188	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u189	Last week, we learned that 30% of birds had disappeared in 15 years. A walking Member of Parliament asked the Government a question that was quite relevant: are we going to a silent spring? Nicolas Hulot rose, in a burst of indignation, recalling that 80% of the insects had also disappeared. And on the benches of the majority, you applauded together, you rose in a unanimous momentum. But my feeling is that there's some hypocrisy in there. You're ecologists because, a week after applause and ovating the brave Mr. Hulot, you guarantee opacity to the chemical industry. You allow him to promote pesticides and other neonicotonoids in our countryside. Indeed, who is asking us for the little service of business secrecy? Who was the most insistent? Are they philanthropic associations working for the good of humanity? I mentioned earlier that DuPont de Nemours was one of the members of the CIST. But this lobby is also home to the CEFIC, the European Chemical Industry Council – I insist on this last term. It's as if we had gigogne lobbies: the TSIC is a kind of mother lobby, which houses within it a number of subsidiaries, including the CEFIC, which brings together Bayer, BASF, Sanofi, Exxon Mobil and, of course, DuPont de Nemours. The latter company also intervened personally with the European Commission in order to obtain this directive on business secrecy. CEFIC recruited as a lobbyist a certain Joseph Huggard, who himself passed by Exxon and GlaxoSmithKline and who boasted, at the time of his recruitment, that he had more than thirty years of experience with the most controversial substances. What is the aim of CEFIC? That clinical trials and toxicological data, the identity of additives, chemical emissions, smoke releases are not made public: that all this be covered by business secrecy. Let us pause for a moment on the list of DuPont de Nemours, because the fact that such a company is calling for this directive speaks volumes about how it can be used. DuPont was the company that launched leaded gasoline in the 1920s. The toxicity of lead has been known since ancient times, at least since the 18th century it has been known that it can cause cases of Saturnism and, in the 1920s, it is already known that it is a neurotoxic that causes encephalopathy, kidney, blood, bone damage and cognitive disorders, even at low doses. As early as 1921, Pierre du Pont, the boss of DuPont de Nemours, was fully aware of the toxicity of leaded gasoline. He himself wrote to his brother, in a confidential letter, that tetraethyl lead – PTE – is "a very toxic liquid if it comes into contact with the skin, resulting in lead poisoning almost immediately." In the following month, a first worker died of poisoning. Workers often play the role of sentinels in this kind of health drama, since they are in direct contact with toxic products. In 1924, there were five deaths and thirty-five poisonings: the press issued the alert. General Motors' medical committee meets and draws alarming conclusions, in a report which nevertheless remains confidential. To better intoxicate the bodies, DuPont de Nemours will then intoxicate the spirits. The company is setting up a lobby, the Association of Lead Industries, to combat anti-lead propaganda. She recruits a pseudo-toxicologist, Robert A. Kehoe, to whom she provides a laboratory and $150,000. She pays him for fifty years and he will become the lead benchmark for five decades. His thesis is that lead exists naturally in humans and that the levels detected are harmless. When discordant voices are heard, DuPont de Nemours works to break them. In 1965, researcher Clair Patterson said that lead is naturally part of the human environment, but that its presence has been multiplied by 100 in its body and by 1000 in the environment.The lobby tries to buy it, by offering to fund its research, but it fails. After the carrot comes the stick. He broke Patterson's contract with the U.S. Department of Health and put pressure on his university to dismiss him. The same will happen to Dr. Needleman, a pediatrician from Pittsburgh University. It shows, for its part, that even low lead poisoning can lead to a mental deficiency. The industry dragged him into the mud and his university denied him access to his own documents. It was by these deceptions, by these lies, by this propaganda that, for three quarters of a century, a poison was poured into our bodies and into the air. It's a criminal attitude, and we can even talk about a mass crime. And that's who you're strengthening the business secret for! In addition, they are repeat offenders! It's not like they've only acted this way once. I mentioned the document on the Teflon of DuPont de Nemours. The company marketed this product in the post-war period and workers died immediately in the factories. Since the 1950s, medical journals have been insisting on workers' fever, on their tremors, on the cancers of the thyroid which are multiplying, on the fact that it rots everything, water, air, earth. But everything will be done to stifle this until the early 2000s. That's who you give the secret of business to! They're the ones who asked for it and you're giving it to them! What I said about DuPont de Nemours applies to the others. As early as 1986, Sanofi officials knew that the Dépakin was causing cases of autism, and they hid it until 2006. We can also tell the story of atrazine. This morning, on the train, I met a friend who told me that we had seen traces of atrazine for the first time in his area. This product was banned in France a few decades ago, but it appears today, because it takes time to spread in water. A biologist from Berkeley, Tyrone Hayes, was ordered a report by the Swiss company Syngenta on the harms of atrazine. He showed that male frogs exposed to this product began to produce eggs, that they no longer had sperm, that they suffered from a defect in the descent of the testicles and a lack of penis development. When he handed over this catastrophic study to Syngenta, the company refused to publish it and manipulated the data. She then tried to corrupt him, investigated his wife and tried to buy his name on the Internet. As it was not enough, she spent millions to de-consider him and put him out of work. That's who you give the secret of business to! Sometimes, for our happiness, these chemical companies come together and make a common front against the citizens. DuPont, but also Dow Chemical, Monsanto and Syngenta are found for example in Hawaii, which is a test site for agrochemistry. Children there are born with the intestine outside the belly, with hare beaks or poorly formed ears; There are many miscarriages. What did the people of Hawaii do? They did not even go so far as to demand the immediate cessation of the tests. They wanted to know the names of the pesticides and the quantities used and asked for buffer zones. They got the organisation of a referendum, but the lobbies spent $8 million and the citizens, 82,000 euros only, that is, a hundred times less. Despite this, the referendum was widely won by the citizens. What did the "Big Six" of chemistry do? They filed a complaint, all together, against the county of Kauai, where these tests were taking place, and they took it away. And their lawyer then asked the question: "Do citizens have the right to regulate our sector? To which she replied: "We think no. That's who you're giving business secrets to!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u190	And if you don't, there's some background in your speech?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u191	In the film Spider-Man, the superheroes states this adage: "A great power implies great responsibilities. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u192	What a cultural reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u193	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] These firms have great power, but they do not take on their responsibilities. They are the new Leviathan. They have a power that equals, and sometimes even exceeds, that of States. They have in their hands the fate of thousands, tens of thousands of employees, and that of millions or billions of people. But as soon as we have a question to ask them, a question that disturbs, a question that no longer goes in the soft sense of their consensus, immediately it is flight. Communication services no longer respond, we can wait weeks, months, restart them by email, email, telephone: nothing does! When we go to meet them at the company's headquarters, we disturb them: this is not the time, we have to make an appointment. We push our camera away, the CEOs flee behind a door and behind security guards. And the only answer we get is trials, answers made through lawyers: it's the cowardice of the powerful. And it is to them that you grant the secret of business, as if they did not already have enough secrets! These firms are fighting with their weapons. They struggle with procedures, with advertisements, with their lobbies, with bogus studies, they struggle every day, discreetly, but relentlessly. They struggle to continue their little business quietly. They struggle to stifle people's voices. They struggle to keep themselves free from democracy. They struggle because they know only one law, only one watchword, profit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u194	It's at the limit of defamation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u195	And that's what you're helping with! To these unscrupulous firms! To these companies without shame, without feeling, who do not care that birds disappear, that cancers multiply, that children are born poorly trained! As Members of Parliament, as delegates of people, we should fight for multinationals to open their doors, to open their registers, to open their computers. And, on the other hand, you offer them one more instrument so that they stay in the shadow, in the opacity, to punish men who come to bring some light on their practices! It's David against Goliath, but you find that David is abusing, that you have to regulate the use of the sling, that it strikes too hard, that it carries too far. Now, what is happening to Davids, whistleblowers? I am thinking of my friend Denis Robert, who found himself facing Clearstream, facing Jean-Claude Juncker's friends. He had to face thirty-one complaints of defamation in all parts of France, Belgium, Switzerland and Canada. When he won his trials, the firms appealed, then he ended up in the Court of Cassation, and I'm not talking about the other procedures, for concealment of theft and for abuse of trust. And then, he had to undergo what I sometimes experienced as a journalist, but on a completely different scale: visits by bailiffs, white, blue, yellow papers, pressure on the family, wear and tear, fatigue, loneliness, shame. Every time I see him, I wonder how he held it. I also want to take advantage of this forum to tell her my admiration, as well as those I do not know, only by name, through the media. Antoine Deltour, first of all, the man of the LuxLeaks, this hero despite himself, with his shyness, his little glasses, his serious air, his tone. He is prosecuted for theft, breach of professional secrecy, fraudulent access to a computer system, laundering and disclosure of business secrets. He was taken into custody by the French police. I am also thinking of his accomplice, since there is complicity, Raphaël Halet, with whom the French gendarmes searched, seizing his computer, searching in his e-mails and even in the tablets of his children. I am thinking of Stéphanie Gibaud, former executive of the Swiss firm UBS, licensed, placarded, exhausted, traumatized, who describes himself as a "survivor". Or in Karim Ben Ali, this lorrain trucker, who shot a small video with his mobile phone, in which he said: "And here's how we recycle waste, at Arcelor: I just spilled 28 cubic meters of acid in the middle of nature. He was prosecuted, he was blacklisted, he was marginalized. And your urgency is to strengthen the Goliaths of multinationals? to reassure them? to offer them an additional channel of complaint? Who can assure me, in this assembly, that in a few years' time, not a journalist, not a whistleblower, not a man or woman of good will will be tried for breaching the "business secret"? Who undertakes to say: "I will sit next to this man, this woman, I will testify to the misappropriation of the law, I will pay his attorney's fees, his fines and his damages. "? Are you ready for this, Mr. Rapporteur? Are you ready for this, minister? Who will protest against Mr Bolloré? For years, this magnate of gag proceedings, against Bastamag, against France Inter, against Mediapart, against L'Obs, against Le Point, against Sherpa, against ReAct, against Les Inrocks, against almost everything written in this country, and he does so with the silent complicity of the politicians. He crushes his own editorials, in the indifference of the elected ones. Why such indifference? For fear of no longer passing on Canal+, on CNews, or in his newspapers. And now, here's his new strategy: when a report by France 2 shows fourteen-year-olds at work in his plantations, Bolloré shams and bribes first, then he innovates by lodging a complaint, on the grounds of the infringement of his commercial interests, before the commercial court – the same court before which the secret of cases will be pleaded, and which is in the hands of the employer. Stand up and tell me that Mr Bolloré will not use or abuse this procedure in the future. The question was asked during the examination in the committee of the laws, by the voice of Stéphane Little in particular, and the newspapers also echo it: can we still reveal cases such as those of the mediator, bisphenol A, such as Panama paper or LuxLeaks? Can these cases always be brought to the attention of citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u196	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u197	I believe it because I am more optimistic than Stéphane Peu and than the fora that appear in the newspapers. I believe in something that resists in man, like a grain of sand, screwed to the soul: the desire for justice, the thirst for truth. It is not another text that will despair the Denis Robert, the Antoine Deltour, the Stéphanie Gibaud... There is always a part of unconsciousness in these struggles. Fortunately, they go into ignorance of the thousand obstacles that will have to be overcome, otherwise they would not commit themselves. It takes a bit of naivety to face the same mastodons. The real question, then, is not whether these cases will be able to come out again. It is not to them but to us that the question is asked: is there anything that resists in us? A desire for justice? A thirst for truth? Which side are you on? Who do you encourage? The mastodons of finance, the Goliaths of multinationals or the righteous who stand right and alone? Unfortunately, I know the answer in advance because it has been nine months since we heard this speech: money before people; For the money, it's right now, for the people, we'll see later. You will also answer Europe, Europe, Europe. But, precisely, on which side is Europe, official Europe, Jean-Claude Juncker's? It stands on the Goliath side, offering them a tailor-made directive, with small onions. It is this Europe that arouses mistrust and even anger. If you want to save Europe, if you really want to save it, save it from itself, save it from its drifts and its twists. Tell him no, right now, to this Europe of lobbies! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on several benches of the NG group]] I invite you to disobey, to disobey very concretely, to disobey now.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u198	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u199	I have heard the fears or concerns that Mr Ruffin has expressed. I respect his point of view. It seems to me, however, that a less passionate and more reasoned attitude would help to find some answers to your concerns, Mr. You make three objections to this text: the general difficulty posed by the way in which European law is drawn up; too broad a definition of business secrecy; insufficient derogations. On the first point, European law is not drafted in the same way as our national law. The process in Europe is based on the involvement of several partners in an open manner. It is the system of lobbies, one can criticize it – I can hear it perfectly – but it is consubstantial to the drafting of European texts: all lobbies, including public ones – I was elected from a region that, like many other French regions, had a lobbying office in Brussels – participate. The existence of this system can be regretted, but it is part of the process of drawing up European law. On the second point, the definition provided for in the text of Article L. 151-1 of the Commercial Code is in line with that laid down in Article 2 of the Directive. This definition is specified in that only information that has commercial value and is subject to reasonable measures of protection on the part of its holder will be protected. We can still judge this definition too broad – I have read some criticisms in this direction that join yours – but the combination of the criteria set seems to me to guarantee a framework. For example, business secrecy can correspond to the secrecy of processes, economic and financial information, business or industrial strategies – in short, to specific elements. This concept is not completely new. It already exists in domestic law, but it has not yet been defined. The courts have so far referred to the definition in Article 39 of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, which is exactly that of the Directive. In any event, even if the secret of business was invoked, I have already said that it cannot be opposed to whistleblowers, journalists or employee representatives who use their freedom of expression. On the third point, once again I can understand your concerns, but it seems to me that the text which we want to transpose responds to it. You cited the example of medical risks, referring to the DuPont de Nemours document, as well as environmental risks. These two subjects are expressly mentioned as being subject to derogations from the protection of business secrecy. The text therefore provides elements of reinsurance, it seems to me. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Finally, you hope that there will be men and women in this assembly who are thirsty for justice and truth, who have the spirit of resistance. I would be tempted to say that, at the initiative of the rapporteur, this thirst for truth and justice, as well as this energy of resistance, is reflected in a legal system – we are also here to develop relevant legal mechanisms – the fine imposed on those who unduly initiate a gag procedure. There is, therefore, a spirit of resistance among the parliamentarians here who, I am sure, will join yours, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u201	In the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, Mr Olivier Becht, for the IUD Group, spoke in favour of acting and independent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u202	We did not have to read the same text as La France insoumée. The one we are looking at seems to us to protect business secrecy as well as the possibility of covering public places with the drifts that can sometimes be observed within companies. And it perfectly protects public freedoms, especially freedom of expression. [[Smile]] I understand that France insoubted wants to make this House an ideological forum, but I wonder if some of its arguments would not deserve to be kept secret, even if they are not in danger of being looted. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u203	Mrs Cécile Untermaier, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u204	The directive, which was drawn up under the powerful influence of the lobbies, as has been pointed out, was examined by the European Parliament, which has dealt with some of the asperities, before adopting it very broadly. Personally, I regret that, because the proposed definition of business secrecy is too broad. If the rapporteur had not added the environment to the list of subjects subject to derogations, the situation would be really complicated and unfortunate. We need to go further in this direction. As long as we are Europeans and a European directive needs to be transposed, let us transpose it, but without insulting what we are – national representation – that is, defending our values, following the political orientation we want to give our work, and respecting the balance between companies, the environment, the right to information and transparency. We will not therefore vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, but we will defend a motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u205	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u206	I should like once again to welcome the brilliant intervention of François Ruffin, who knows how to make a subject as obscure as business secrecy concrete. Madam Minister, for you, European law is what it is – "It's the game, my poor Lucette" according to the famous replica of an advertisement – and we must accept it this way. Should the definition be precise or broad, we do not know very well. But what are you afraid of, minister and rapporteur? You are afraid of overtransposition – what a horror! You fear that we will do the work we have to do in the National Assembly, namely to amend the text, to adapt it to the republican spirit of France, to clarify the definition and to examine the areas which may be the subject of derogations. Let us improve this directive! Let's be crazy! You say, Madam Minister, that business secrecy cannot be opposed to those who use their freedom of expression. Are you serious? Of course he will! Of course some gags will be brought! You're quoting the fine introduced to warn them, but what are we talking about? 60,000 euros, if I'm not mistaken. "Be careful, Mr Bolloré, if you do a trial, it can cost you 60000 euros! I imagine that, in the face of such a threat, the respective departments responsible for litigation and accounting will quickly agree to say to the latter: "Go ahead, please! » [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This is the world we live in. We are disarming ourselves and giving weapons to those who do not need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u207	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u208	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I thank François Ruffin for his speech. He, like all of us here, has the legitimacy of a Member of Parliament. But those who have seen his wonderful movie Thank you boss! He also saw very closely what Mr. Arnault's business secret is, which probably gives him more legitimacy to intervene on the subject. We will vote on the motion to reject for several reasons. Like everyone here, we consider it legitimate to protect our businesses from industrial espionage. Our law already has many mechanisms to preserve creation, innovation, and patents. But the text we are discussing today is quite another thing – it has been said. Written largely under pressure from the lobbies, it pushes business secrecy far away to the clear detriment of the public interest, freedom of expression and the right to information. This text places business secrecy as a fundamental principle at the expense of transparency and the growing democratic aspirations to defend it. It proposes a far too broad definition of business secrecy and thus gives companies exorbitant protection. In doing so, he puts criticisms under the spotlight and exposes those who express them to lengthy and costly legal proceedings. The derogations provided for in the text are meagre – so limited that they will inevitably harm employees, trade unionists, journalists, whistleblowers and, through them, the general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] For all these reasons, we will vote for the motion to reject beforehand, having a thought – we cannot elaborate a law by ignoring them at this point – for the hundreds of thousands of people who signed the call made by Élise Lucet, for the press professionals who signed a forum on this subject a few days ago in Le Monde, for all those, finally, who say all the harm they think of this law and warn of the dangers it entails.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u209	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Kasbarian, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u210	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The La République en marche group will vote against the previous rejection motion tabled by the La France insoumée group. Of course, we need to protect the whistleblowers. Of course, it is necessary to protect those who denounce illegal acts in the company. Moreover, the Sapin 2 law in France has strengthened the protection of the whistleblower, i.e. anyone who reports a wrongful act, risks of harm to the general interest, a crime, a crime, a serious risk to public health or the environment, acts of corruption, trafficking in influence, illegal taking of interests, misappropriation of public funds or favouritism. Nothing in this new text calls into question the protection of whistleblowers. Better yet, we reaffirm its principle. We must also protect our businesses and industries. A few colleagues from the majority and I attended this morning's opening of the Global Industry show in Paris. There are incredible French companies that have spent time developing know-how, have found quality suppliers for their raw materials, have negotiated contracts with them, have put in place production processes with their robots or tools – which makes them more competitive – have innovated both in their production and in their internal organisation, in short industrial companies with invaluable know-how, and competitors, especially foreign ones, are disliked by them. It's about protecting our businesses and industries from the risks of spying and siphoning their industrial secrets and techniques. Dear colleagues of La France, you regularly denounce the evils of globalisation, global competition, dumping by foreign companies, industrial espionage, and the takeover of French companies by foreign investors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u211	Capitalism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u212	This text responds precisely to certain effects of global competition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u213	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u214	... by providing additional protections to our companies. Under the guise of absolute transparency, you are actually pouring into economic voyeurism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u215	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u216	For you, everything must be transparent, everything must be known. So you take the risk – assume it! – to leak the know-how of our companies into global competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u217	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u218	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We cannot resolve to weaken our country's businesses and the millions of employees who work there. That is why the Republic on the move will vote against your motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u219	What you're saying is still a little caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u220	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u221	The Group of the European People's Party will also vote against the motion for a preliminary rejection, for a number of reasons which I shall have the opportunity to elaborate on at a later stage, during the general debate. Both will certainly come back to the substance, using real, reasonable and rational arguments – because these are the arguments that must feed our debates and exchanges in this House. Dear colleagues from France, dear Mr Ruffin, your extraordinarily caricatural and truncated presentation of European decision-making and legislative processes – which would be entirely focused on the European Commission, with the Commission talking with so-called all-powerful European lobbies, and subjecting them to their pressure – totally ignores the co-legislator of the European Parliament, who, however, worked more than 18 months on the draft directive in question. The minimum of intellectual honesty would have been to recognize that, for eighteen months, and in an extremely collaborative, constructive and trans-partisan spirit, European parliamentarians from different groups of political obedience have substantially amended, amended, improved and enriched the text. In doing so, they took into account the need to protect clearly and precisely – perhaps more than the original text presented by the European Commission – journalists, whistleblowers and employee representatives, by providing for genuine derogations. The minimum of intellectual honesty would also have been to take into account that, if the text had finally been adopted by an overwhelming majority in the European Parliament, it was because a true balance had been achieved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u222	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u223	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These are the reasons why the Republicans will vote against the motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u224	The next speaker is Mr Philippe Latomb, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u225	Many arguments have already been put forward. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will, of course, vote against the motion. Unless we are mistaken, Mr. Ruffin, none of the examples you have given fall within the scope of this bill. We have all received tons of e-mail messages indicating that, had such a bill been passed before, the Mediator case would not have come out. Everyone knows that this is totally wrong, because the field covered is not that one at all. As our colleague from La République rightly pointed out, the purpose of this bill is to protect intangible or organizational know-how that is not currently protected by patents; It is absolutely not about what you have said. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is in our interest to have a common definition of business secrecy and to transpose the directive as proposed today. For all these reasons, we will vote against this motion, the adoption of which would be contrary to French and European economic interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u226	I have received a motion from Mr Olivier Faure and members of the New Left Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u227	Madam Chair, the keeper of the seals, the chair of the commission, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014, a bill intended to protect "business secrecy" by defining it as "non-public information, which is subject to reasonable safeguards" and which has "economic value". The text had aroused great questions and criticism. The crux of the case, if I may say so, was that business secrecy was a matter of free interpretation by the undertakings concerned. The fear expressed at that time was that a judge seized by a company would have been called upon to become the sole decision maker of the truth, deciding whether or not information was in the interest of the public interest, the health of patients, the rights of consumers or our environment. At the same time, the European Union had launched its own work at the end of 2013. In 2016, a text aimed at giving companies the same protective legal framework was adopted by a majority of the European Parliament. This framework responds to the need for rationalization in this area. To date, only Sweden has a specific legislative tool, most of the other EU Member States guaranteeing protection in question through a variety of provisions, which are broken down into labour law, criminal law or intellectual property law, and even general provisions relating to civil liability. Given the differences between these two processes, French and European, a new balance has become imperative; reconciliation between two legitimate objectives has become necessary. While it is good indeed to protect the assets and knowledge of companies, knowing that every year one in five companies is the victim of theft of a business secret, the European text has been enriched with a new vocation: to protect the work of journalists and whistleblowers more explicitly. On the one hand, the directive introduces the concept of "business secrecy", which refers to secret information which is of commercial value because of its secret character and which has been subjected to reasonable measures to be kept secret. On the other hand, it is stated in the text of the Directive that it "does not affect the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information [...], including respect for the freedom and pluralism of the media", or "the application of Union rules or national rules requiring holders of business secrets to disclose, on grounds of public interest, information, including business secrets, to the public or to administrative or judicial authorities for the performance of the functions of those authorities". As the European Union has adopted the directive, the majority has taken up the matter and tabled a bill, as part of a co-construction work – we assume – with the executive. I come to the reasons that we feel we need to order that the bill be referred to a re-examination in committee. Far from being a rejection of principle, in our view, this referral responds to the need to continue the analytical work, to improve the balance between the principles set out above, and to ensure that our Assembly best takes this bill into account through a truly open examination, taking into account the requests of the various groups and the many actors that have brought before us. My first comments concern the procedure chosen. As is the case with any proposed legislation, we do not have an impact assessment...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u228	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u229	It's even outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u230	... and thus an assessment of the economic, financial, social and environmental consequences, as well as the expected costs and benefits of the provisions of the proposed scheme. No expert reports or documents were provided following consultations or open hearings. However, we could have participated collectively in a new initiative aimed, as a large majority of colleagues are in favour, at developing the participatory dimension of the drafting of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u231	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u232	The number of civil society associations and actors that mobilized on this occasion suggests that their contributions, questions and suggestions for improvement would have been notable and probably welcome. Of course, we have an opinion from the Council of State, which has examined the scheme from the point of view of transposition and the margin of manoeuvre left to the authors of the text. I note in passing that the Council of State considers that, with one exception, the authors of the proposed law have chosen not to use the room for manoeuvre opened by the directive. On the other hand, the Government has chosen to resort to the accelerated procedure – I regret it, Madam Keeper of the Seals. This is a paradox that we would like to stress. The expedited procedure, previously known as "emergency", is an exception procedure that deprives Members of Parliament of a possible second reading after the passage of the text by the Senate. In the present case, as the Council of State points out, French law is already partly in conformity with the Directive in its present state. There was therefore no urgency on the grounds that our national law would not comply with European rules. The spirit of our request for referral is to preserve the time it takes for Parliament and the executive to study complementary and alternative solutions, while respecting the purpose of the text and without making any final judgement on the substance. Let us return to the text itself and to the directive which it intends to transpose, which achieves a balance which must be reinforced and developed at national level. First of all, I would like to put both texts in perspective. The 2016 Directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information – "business secrets" – against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure was passed by a large majority in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u233	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u234	Its purpose is to establish a single and coherent framework to protect companies' confidential business know-how and information against indelicate theft and use. The directive has been debated. It was developed taking into account requests from groups that wanted a more protective right for their manufacturing secrets and strategic projects, while document theft and intellectual property were already regulated in most countries by national laws. The first draft directive was not satisfactory. The protection of journalists and whistleblowers was the subject of intense debate during his discussion. The text as adopted has finally overcome some difficulties. If I go back to the history of the directive, it is because it highlights the European Commission's tendency to uphold the principles of fair competition between companies before worrying about the effects of the regulation on an issue of equivalent importance for a majority of citizens: the objective or provisions should not be used to hide information, in order to deceive the public, citizens and consumers! Furthermore, the substance of the Directive does not clearly state whether its own provisions are compatible with those already in force and whether they apply cumulatively or alternatively. I shall cite only one example as an illustration. Commercial or marketing studies carried out by companies, their development projects, studies of the use of their products, financial and accounting data before publication are now protected. Are the provisions relating to the protection of patents or designs intended to apply alternately or cumulatively? Is the possibility of a choice open to holders of patentable inventions? Returning to the proposed text, the Council of State, in the above-mentioned opinion, notes that the draft does not contain measures to coordinate with positive law. It would therefore be appropriate to ensure consistency in the inclusion of this new regime in the legal order, which the text does not do in its current wording. At the same time, the directive is concerned with reconciling the protection of companies with respect for fundamental rights. As such, it shall exclude from any sanction the acquisition, use or disclosure of a business secret intended to exercise the right to freedom of expression and information, including freedom of the press, to disclose an illegal activity subject to action for the purpose of protecting the general public interest, or to protect a legitimate interest recognised by Union or national law. The Directive has thus achieved a balance point which needs to be confirmed in a more operational way. I now turn to the opportunities to improve the text by re-examination in committee. The bill provides for exemptions from the protection of business secrecy in three cases: the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and communication, including respect for freedom of the press; disclosure of a reprehensible act or illegal activity in order to protect the general public interest; the protection of a legitimate interest recognised by European Union or national law, in particular for the protection of public order, public safety, public health and the environment. The Sapin 2 law referred to the protection of whistleblowers for denouncing any serious threat to the public interest. Two legal issues have been regularly discussed in previous debates. The very broad scope of the definition of business secrecy raises the question of internal information to a company that may not be classified in this category. Certainly, in many cases, discussions will focus on the scope. I also note that this text refers only to protection for reporting wrongdoing or illegal acts. As far as the denunciation of legal acts is concerned, it does not provide any clarification in the case, far from being exceptional, where they constitute a threat to the general interest. The offence of secrecy would take place once such information was obtained or disseminated and its disclosure would be subject to criminal penalties. We could find many situations where companies are making full use of and optimising the law to extend its benefits, for example in tax matters. The question is not only theoretical. The second point raised is that of the derogations introduced by the text. A retrospective study of the major cases of recent years, in the light of the new principles and the definitions adopted, would have ensured that the exemptions envisaged were likely to protect the press, whistleblowers or researchers and academics at the source of discovery or of the renewal of knowledge, at the origin of the revelations that had often led to their trials. The guarantees proposed by the text do not cover all areas of civil society. In this regard, further clarification through amendments would be welcome. In addition to these first two observations, one on the need to consolidate the balance between European legislation and national legislation and the other on protection mechanisms to regulate and extend justified and detailed derogations, I would add a third element: the work in committee seems to be incomplete in view of the issues at stake. The New Left Group tabled several amendments before the committee's consideration. The aim was to improve the text in order to advance the law, that of the protection of business secrecy, and the rights of citizens and their representatives in civil society, associations. The first amendment was intended to extend the protection of whistleblowers when denouncing legal acts, as they pose a threat to the public interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u235	Absolutely! It's a crucial point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u236	The other two amendments were aimed at combating gag procedures, i.e. abusive actions by companies or individuals in defamation against teachers-researchers and researchers in their teaching or research activities. One of them tended to transpose recommendations made by the so-called " Mazeaud" commission to the Government during the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u237	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u238	It was also intended to extend the protection afforded to associations acting in the context of their activities of general interest. Other proposals have been made directly by associations, non-governmental organizations and editorial societies with the sole aim of finding the right balance. We believe it would have been good legislation, to listen to questions, to clarify the provisions, to better articulate the existing provisions with the new ones, to ensure the consistency of the arrangements and to extend the scope of protections by precise and limited additions. Earlier, Mr rapporteur, you said that the bill did not over-implement the directive. However, this is the case, since it challenges the principle of adversarial action in administrative courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u239	Which is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u240	The amendments you made in committee are not, as you claim, essentially editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u241	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u242	There is also no prohibition that a transposition text should be more protective than the European Directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u243	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u244	This is the purpose of the amendments tabled by the New Left Group, which concern legal persons acting as whistleblowers. We hope that we will move forward on this issue during the discussion. It was to that end that we wanted to table a motion to refer the matter back to committee. All these limitations and the lack of openness to dialogue on specific points lead us to ask for a time to deepen. I repeat, this motion is not a general rejection of the spirit of the text and its main provisions. I note that one third of the operative paragraphs deal with the definition of business secrecy and exceptions to the principle of secrecy, and two thirds deal with actions, procedures and measures aimed at protection. If the first third of the text were reviewed and corrected, it could lead to broad agreement on the principles, if not on the operationality of the protection measures to be implemented. For the reasons set out, which are detailed and precise, I would ask you, on behalf of the New Left Group, to refer the text back to committee. I have no doubt that the work in committee would allow the majority of our colleagues to be attentive to precise and justified arguments in the well-understood sense of conciliation between the defence of business secrecy and that of the rights of citizens and consumers. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] We expect that you will be in favour of a necessary improvement of the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u245	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u246	I am against referral back to committee for a major reason: it would prevent us from transposing the directive before 9 June, and thus meeting the deadline. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In the context of the European debate, I would like to point out that the drafting of the directive has been the subject of very broad consultation. The directive was adopted by the previous majority, to which you belonged, Mrs Karamanli, and if we are now forced by time, it is because your majority did not transpose the directive that it had voted. Colleagues, therefore, I urge you not to vote on the motion for referral.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u247	In the explanations of vote, Mr Olivier Becht spoke for the IDU Group, acting and independent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u248	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] The text seems to us to have been discussed at some length in committee. It is ripe for the discussion in session. We will therefore not vote on the motion to refer the text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u249	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u250	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] First of all, it is a question of who is really targeted by the directive. I, too, am very committed to protecting our industrial secrets and the value of our businesses. But let us be serious: defining business secrecy will not protect us from the NSA – National Security Agency – nor from industrial espionage! Today, economic war is not fair before the courts. It would have been useful to await the conclusions of the current commission of inquiry on the state's industrial protection decisions in order to enrich the bill. Secondly, the directive has raised a concern from the outset for civil society. This has led to changes in the European Parliament. Was civil society convinced and reassured? The answer is no. I do not take lightly the concerns of the society of the editors of the World, the Agence France-Presse and some major associations, who read the texts and know how to legally interpret a bill debated in the National Assembly. If you have not convinced them, it is good – forgive me – that the text is a problem. Another word about the work of the previous majority. The bill under discussion deals with the protection of whistleblowers, provided for in the Sapin 2 Act. On the other hand, it seems to come back incidentally, in a way that does not reassure us, to the law on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u251	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u252	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] That's right! It introduces a serious regression on the protection of whistleblowers. We therefore wish to refer it back to committee. That is why we will vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u253	Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u254	I owe you a confession: I would have preferred to defend the motion to refer the text back to committee. It is often not known, but motions are distributed by lot, taking into account the size of the groups. Turns out we've lost! Having said that, I defended the motion to reject it beforehand, because I believe it too. I would like the motion for reference to be adopted because, in my view, the definition contained in section 1 needs to be reviewed and, above all, a part added to the bill. You have to give and give. Companies want business secrecy. They want it to be strengthened and harmonised at European level. Why not? But what do they give citizens in return? I would have hoped that there would already be a directive protecting whistleblowers or that the entry into force of the directive on business secrecy would be suspended to that of a directive on whistleblowers. In addition, we have been talking about social and fiscal harmonisation for the last 30 years: how does it take 30 years for one and three years for the other? There is a need to create a giver and to call on companies to make very serious progress in the field of social and fiscal harmonisation at European level. Above all, there is a need for a part devoted to the opening up of businesses. I wonder what country we live in, Madam Keeper of Seals. You tell us that transparency cannot be complete; It has also been said earlier that absolute transparency cannot be achieved. But let's look at the reality! We don't want total transparency but we want to get out of total opacity! At present, democracy, especially transparency, is stopping at the door of business. I will cite the example of Lactalis, which was highlighted by our colleague Richard Amos. First, we have no knowledge of the company's accounts. Second, while bacteria are present in some of its products, reports remain confidential.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u255	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u256	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Thirdly, when breeders protest against the method of price construction at Lactalis, they are fired. For my part, I would have liked this text to contain a second part which strengthens, for example, the protection of these farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u257	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u258	I will distinguish the shape from the background. As for the form, a few weeks ago, when we put forward bills on subjects such as the fight against sleep merchants or the strengthening of the rights of caregivers, you explained to us, using your strength of conviction, that we should not rush, that it was necessary to have an impact study, that the cost of the proposed measures should be assessed, that we should return to the line and thus deprive Parliament of its capacity to take initiative. Today, for reasons beyond our control, a text as important as the one we are considering is the subject of a parliamentary cavalier, since it takes the form of a bill, without impact assessment, without sufficient debate and without open-mindedness in committee, as we have seen. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As for the substance, I have tried to show – I believe it is a shared conviction on the left side of the House – that, since the beginning of the legislature, you have been caught in flagrant violation of convergence with the business world and even of connivance with the world of finance. When we looked at the bill for a state in the service of a trust society, at no time did the proposals we made to blow Bercy's lock and strengthen control powers carry your conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u259	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u260	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] When we looked at the draft law on social dialogue and employment, our proposals to strengthen employees' alert capacities and their powers of intervention in favour of transparency in the company were not given any positive consideration on your part. Today, you are proposing the one-way, unilateral implementation of a form of connivance with the world of finance, which will harm whistleblowers, the ability of employees to denounce illegal and immoral situations, including by refusing to take into account the situation of legal persons, as Mrs Karamanli has clearly shown. That is why we will vote on this motion, hoping that the debate can finally open on this subject. Otherwise, it would hide something.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u261	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Kasbarian, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u262	The Republic on the move will vote against the motion for referral to committee tabled by the New Left Group. I know, for having participated, that the work carried out in committee by our rapporteurs and text managers, as well as by all the Commissioners, has been of quality, open to debate and discussion: all opinions have been able to express themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u263	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u264	You say that the text is not balanced. You mentioned earlier the commission of inquiry into France's industrial policy. This is a good example, because we cannot say, as your colleagues in this committee do, that our societies are struggling with a wild globalization...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u265	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u266	... in which states or foreign investors try to plunder our know-how, our information, our processes, our contracts, our innovations, and at the same time demand, as you do, full transparency from our companies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u267	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u268	... access to each document, to each manufacturing secret, to each accounting element, to the details of each contract with each supplier – as an amendment proposed. We must accept that not everything is public in the company, or risk our companies facing global competition. It is not connivance with the business world, it is the will to protect our industrial know-how against the threats that you yourself denounce, moreover, in other committees. You also say that there is no urgency, but, as the rapporteur has said, we must respect the European deadlines. In addition, there is an emergency that you know, since you denounce it, it is the one that results from global competition. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, we are very pleased to be able to discuss this text today, and we will vote against this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u269	The next speaker is Mr Philippe Latomb, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u270	I share with Mr Jumel part of his argument on the form – I will come back to that in the general discussion. The legislative vehicle used is not necessarily the most suitable, I said in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u271	Thank you for recognizing him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u272	On the other hand, I do not agree with what has been said about the substance of the text. We had a really open discussion in committee, which gave rise to exchanges of views even though they did not go in your direction. Amendments were discussed; Some of them, prompted by an opinion of the Council of State, were tabled by our group or by the rapporteur and were adopted. As the debate has actually taken place in committee, it is entirely legitimate, in our view, that it should now take place in the Chamber. We will therefore vote against this motion for referral.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u273	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u274	Mr Olivier Becht spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u275	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, while our Europe is now plunged into a global competition where constant innovation and product quality are the keys, not only to the success of companies, but also to their survival, it is more than ever up to the public authorities to give our economic actors the means to fight on an equal footing. In recent decades, we have strengthened our legal arsenal to protect intellectual property from patents, while some countries, located in the east of the world, have translated copyright by a right to copy, perhaps in an imperfect understanding of English. However, not all know-how is protected by patents, and they cannot, in any event, protect the company's strategies. However, through innovation or investment decisions, they become equally important elements, even as the speed of our companies and the product cycle accelerates considerably. It was therefore becoming imperative to protect, beyond intellectual property alone, business secrecy itself. This is the purpose of this bill, or rather of the European directive of 8 June 2016, which this bill asks us to transpose, and this before 9 June 2018. Let us say right away, on the substance, this text is in the right direction, since it is intended to protect undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. On the form, however, we, as legislators, can regret the urgent examination, without the illumination of an impact assessment, of the transposition of a directive of this importance, less than two months before the end of the legal period, when the directive itself has been adopted for almost two years. Moreover, as the Council of State has rightly pointed out, the Directive contains many precise and unconditional provisions which make this transposition very framed and leave very little room for manoeuvre to legislate. While this avoids the double pitfall of sub-transposition and over-transposition, this practice, which often becomes a habit of the European institutions, is unhealthy, as it tends to transform directives into Community regulations, down from the spirit of the European Treaties, and even the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union. If the form did not spoil the substance, these remarks deserved to be made. In substance, the main objective of this Directive is to participate in the proper functioning of the internal market by ensuring a sufficient and uniform level of redress in the European Union in the event of unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of a business secret. In this way, it intends to address the fragmentation of national legal protection legislation in this area. The main issue in this text is our ability to strike a fair balance between the protection of secrets and the redress of infringements and the derogations necessary to ensure respect for fundamental rights. This issue is only growing as companies are increasingly investing in research, development and innovation to gain comparative advantages and economic development. At the same time, they are increasingly confronted with illegal practices of espionage, use and disclosure of such information. In a globalised, digitised and open economy, we need to provide our businesses with the normative framework for the efficient protection of business secrecy. This objective requires an effort to define, to which this European directive fulfils by specifying this concept and by laying down the conditions under which protection is granted and the cases in which it is possible to derogate from it. We can also welcome the fact that this text provides for an adjustment of the procedural rules to preserve the confidentiality of cases during a judicial review while including measures that may be decided by courts in the context of an action for the prevention or redress of an infringement of the confidentiality of a case. The text should also be examined in the light of the many attempts in the past to introduce into our legal order an informed definition of the concept of business secrecy. It must be noted that these attempts have all failed in the face of the sensitivity of the subject and the difficult arbitration between protection and derogatory principles. We must therefore welcome the work done on this text, especially since other countries, in the first place the United States of America, are already benefiting from a normative framework protecting their know-how and information, which contributes to their development. However, if business secrecy is to protect the business, it must not do so to the detriment of the consumer, let alone society. While it is legitimate for a firm's secrets to be protected in order to maintain its competitiveness, it is not tolerable that the same firm can hide behind the secret to cover its turpitudes. The race for competitiveness cannot excuse everything, in particular the malfeasance on products, or even the fraud on the expected qualities of the goods, such as the rigged software used by certain automobile companies to hide the higher degree of greenhouse gases produced by the engines of their vehicles. In some cases, the secret deserves to be pierced and revealed in the open. This is allowed by the definition of business secrecy and the proposed legal framework, which should thus prevent companies from concealing malfeasances under protected business information. The text also provides for the derogations necessary to ensure respect for national, Community and international fundamental rights, such as those relating to freedom of the press, the right of information for employees, whistleblowers and, more generally, all those who refer to grounds of general interest, do not dislike our friends of La France insoumée. Unlike the delator, the whistleblower is driven by laudable and disinterested intentions. It is generally at risk of considerable pressure and the sacrifice of a whole family, social and professional life to reveal a threat to the public interest. It is also important to protect investigative journalism, which renders our community a valuable service by lifting the veil on the drifts of certain structures. In France, the right of alert is understood as an extension of freedom of expression and is historically a matter of labour law. The Sapin 2 Act has framed the definition of the whistleblower and considerably expanded its scope. This proposal for a law is therefore a continuation. In their fight, these dark heroes have to deal with the famous delaying and abusive procedures, known as gag procedures, whose tacit aim is to obstruct their freedom of expression and to exhaust their financial resources through abusive prosecution and disproportionate claims for damages. In this respect, we can welcome the work of the rapporteur, who has made it possible to introduce an innovative mechanism in committee to discourage, in the form of a capped civil fine, these abusive procedures. It should also be borne in mind that, without the whistleblowers, we would certainly never have heard of the scandals of contaminated blood, asbestos or the Mediator. In essence, this text provides necessary clarifications and definitions, but should not be seen as an end in itself. The measures adopted will then have to be coordinated with the existing law, so that the legislative arsenal is fully legible and protective, both for businesses and for our citizens. In the meantime, this text is in the right direction. It leads to a balance that protects our businesses, without harming our consumers. We shall therefore vote with pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u276	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u277	Madam President, the honourable Member, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are going to debate today is a controversial text, both in terms of method and substance. It raises serious concerns, particularly about the very broad definition of business secrecy, expressed very clearly in a forum published in Le Monde, of which much has been said, written by a collective powerful by its number and diversity – journalists, researchers, economists, trade unions and associations. All denounce a text relegating the general interest and the right of citizens to information behind business law. On the method, the urgency – for lack of anticipation, I concede it – ordered a text, but not necessarily a bill, examined which is moreover in expedited procedure and without impact assessment. It is not, in our view, the appropriate vehicle for such a text, born under the pressure of the business lobby and with a high stake in the fundamental freedoms of information and communication. The proof of this is that the rapporteur himself, whose competence and intellectual honesty I did not ignore, was forced to table many amendments to his own text, which clearly shows the difficulty of mastering it from the outset. Reading the opinion delivered by the Council of State – which, as we all know, cannot replace an impact assessment – will convince you of the legal technicality of this text and its inaboutious nature. The unique definition of business secrecy implied by this transposition required us, as legislators, to bring this text closer to the other secrets protected by law and to make legally unquestionable use of the room for manoeuvre which this directive leaves to the Member States. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] This method of work ends up really worrying us. The National Assembly is no longer the place for debate that it should be. It is sacrificed to the mechanics of an efficiency whose limits we perceive well. These are bills in expedited procedure, bills without impact assessment, and orders that we do not even have the instruments to enable them to do so. The departure, last Wednesday, of all the opposition forces should finally alert you to the unease we all feel in this National Assembly. In substance, we know that the political point is to strike a balance between companies, which are legitimate to protect their undisclosed and development-relevant information against international competition, and other actors and citizens, who must benefit from the information that is measured on a daily basis, such as in the areas of health security and the environment. The amendments we are proposing are all aimed at achieving this balance and at ensuring that business secrecy is not the basis on which our fundamental values could be violated. The difficulty lies, as we have said several times on these benches, in this definition of business secrecy and the lack of derogations. These amendments meet several requirements. The first is to guarantee the scope of the duty of vigilance set out in the law of 23 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies – here I salute Dominique Potier for this law now hailed all over the world. Business secrecy should not be a way for multinationals to avoid the requirements of publication, transparency and information, which are now required by this law to identify and prevent risks of violations of fundamental rights and the environment. To the duty of vigilance of companies, must echo the right of citizens to know. The second requirement is to guarantee the right of alert, a fundamental right for citizenship and democratic control, and therefore the status of the whistleblower, defined for the first time in the Sapin 2 law. The whistleblower must be able to act to signal a threat or damage to the general interest, which the text at this stage does not guarantee. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] The third requirement is to do more than dissuade so-called gag procedures by means of financial sanctions, which, despite the rapporteur's goodwill, are dogmatic and not pragmatic. Together, let us find a way to protect NGOs, whistleblowers, journalists and researchers, ahead of a trial whose disproportionate power ratio is exhausting them. The directive provides us with room for manoeuvre in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Fourth, with regard to the procedural developments proposed outside the scope of the directive, in particular those concerning administrative jurisdiction, I would point out that the principle of adversarial proceedings is enshrined in the ECHR and derives from the fundamental right to a fair trial. Is it in a bill that we have to deal with this issue?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u279	While the use of proportionality currently allows the judge to fill his office on the confidentiality of cases, the forthcoming texts on criminal and civil proceedings and on judicial organization, in full confidence with the work that the Chancellery can do, will enable us, I believe, to return to this issue in a calm manner. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are the few comments I wanted to make on behalf of the New Left Group. We have considerable room for manoeuvre for this transposition into our national law, so let's open the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u280	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u281	Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the National Assembly is about to transpose into French law the European directive on business secrecy, which had been described as a threat to freedom of information, when it was adopted in 2016. I mean here we're not the little telegraphers in Brussels. Mr rapporteur, you have reminded us of your role on several occasions. That's very good. I have the impression, however, that it is a reminder of the jupitian good word over and over again, but nothing more. Indeed, this text seeks to protect companies, as has been demonstrated on several occasions by François Ruffin and the deputies of the New Left and the Democratic and Republican Left groups, but everything is about balance! Once again, you make the choice of a balance in opposition to press freedom, not taking into account the emergence of whistleblowers. In a way, you note that we are missing the opportunity to vote on the issue of whistleblowers, thereby double standards. In addition, you seem to ignore the threat to freedom of information, while a collective of journalists, trade unions and associations has mobilized in a forum, of which my colleague François Ruffin and others have told you. I do not believe that we can discuss the seriousness of this rostrum and of those who signed it. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of democracy, you are forcing us not to over-transpose what the European Union imposes. But then, what do we serve? Do you propose to the National Assembly to be silent as the grave?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u282	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u283	[[Smile]] I wasn't thinking about you, my colleague. This is not our conception of democracy. You cast reproach on the European Union, even when it is not at fault. The question is, who are the anti-Europeans? The National Assembly – it is its role – can better define the notion of business secrecy in order to better protect journalists, who are doing the necessary investigative work, as our colleague from La République has said. We can make this text a law that inspires the other Member States to transpose it, instead of doing the minimum work and taking back the copy that the lobbies had already transmitted to the European Commission, slightly amended, I agree, by the European Parliament. So let's do it! Let us seize this opportunity to be a driving force in the protection of launchers and whistleblowers. We see it every day – Panama papers, Paradise papers, Lactalis, Cambridge Analytica – the role of whistleblowers and investigative journalism is crucial to our democracy. And I will not speak here about video game workers who are also whistleblowers. As you know, Madam seal keeper, as everyone knows – because it is a secret of polichinel – this bill allows for the circumvention of any impact assessment. I am obliged to join in the general protest to see that this text has been drawn up at the same time, which probably explains the multiple tweakings. You make business secret a weapon of mass deterrence: its definition is so broad, the burden of proof of good faith based on the whistleblower and the balance of power being so unequal, the fear of prosecution will lead the whistleblower or journalist to give up revealing the information. What is La France's position? In Spider-Man, Peter Parker sums up the difference between La France insoumise and your text: "No matter what the situation is, no matter what the battle is going to be these days, we always have a choice. It is our choices that determine who we are, and we can always choose good. " While we are given the opportunity to appropriate this subject for the emancipation of our democracy – and not to act against companies, as you are trying to caricature us – you do not use the margin of manoeuvre offered by the transcription of the directive in national law. The directive does not require the broad definition of business secrecy that you have retained and allows us to adapt it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u284	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u285	... in order to protect fundamental rights and freedoms. We have tabled amendments on this subject, which I do not believe to be constitutionally inadmissible. A more precise definition of cases of derogation could be adopted. You yourself have accepted an additional derogation in relation to the environmental elements. We have proposed in committee, and we will take them back in public, a number of derogations which seem to us to be self-evident and for all members of this House. For example, there is a proposal for a derogation in the area of terrorism: documents relating to links between an enterprise and terrorism may arise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u286	Lafarge!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u287	Exactly, I was thinking about Lafarge. Thank you, Mr. Jumel! This is a theme that should be unanimous in this House! We are talking about this great and beautiful commitment of the Government to fight tax evasion and fraud: 60 to 80 billion euros escape us every year. What does it cost to put this element in the text, since we all agree to recover the money that is sorely lacking in our public services? One could have had a more balanced text, based more on a giving-and-giving exchange: the text would secure business secrecy, which could have legitimacy, and at the same time provide better access for journalists to business data and better protection for whistleblowers. That would have been a balanced proposal! Finally, this text risks speeding up an unfortunate dynamic, that of circumvention of press law by commercial law. You open with this text an additional breach. A sad example of this is the recent Challenge magazine case. As a reminder, this weekly was brought before the Paris commercial court by the company Conforama, whose economic difficulties he revealed. Challenges was condemned to remove the article from its site and no longer publish an article on the subject. That is why we proposed a derogation in social matters for whistleblowers, in order to exclude this area from the scope of business secrecy. An unprecedented moment in the history of the press, on April 26, at the Paris commercial court, Vincent Bolloré asked 50 million euros – just that! – France 2 for a supplementary investigation number dedicated to it. On the protection of French know-how and on industrial espionage, it is a pity that this bill does not address the question of the transfer of patents when buying a company. That's the real looting in this country! So what was of interest to General Electric in Alstom Energy was the technology of gas turbines and hundreds of company patents developed by our workers and engineers, which represent the secret of our business. To defend French know-how, we must also think about protecting our big companies: we must not give them away, without control, to foreign capital. This would have been a relevant measure in the context of global competition that was mentioned earlier. I'm not sure that business secrecy can protect such business buybacks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u288	Remember STX!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u289	I'm not even talking about STX! In conclusion, you answer next to the subject by brandishing the dogma of free and undistorted competition. You leave France at the mercy of the worst capitalists. Alstom was one of the three examples taken by the European Commission to illustrate the relevance of the directive. On a visit to the Intelligence Academy, I was struck to hear from the head of the Directorate-General for External Security – DGSE – that I was asking about the acquisitions of companies and technologies by foreign investors, replying that economic intelligence was evolving within the limits of free and undistorted competition. The proponents of free and undistorted global competition must laugh at the reading of this kind of text! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In the end, you rob the country of pretending to defend business secrecy. I think you're missing the goal. I hope that our amendments to strengthen the rights of whistleblowers will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u290	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u291	Madam President, the keeper of the seals, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the national representation is now called upon to transpose the European 'business secret' directive. On the bottom, of course, there is a lot to say – I will come later – but the form also challenges us. Why transpose a European directive by means of a proposal for a law, if not in order to frustrate the debate and escape an embarrassing impact assessment? In order to make things clear to our citizens, European directives are traditionally transposed through bills drafted by the Government, with a prior assessment allowing elected people to take an informed stand. These basic principles of the proper functioning of our institution have been swept away by a turn of hands. To this stealth are added obvious precipitation and impreparation. By opting for the accelerated procedure, which leads us to take a decision today on a text whose examination in committee concluded less than a week ago, the majority made the choice to go quickly and to legislate almost in catini, even putting aside the urgent need for a genuine substantive debate and for more approximations and legal uncertainty. Have we not been given more than 30 amendments by the rapporteur in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which substantially alters the balance of his own text? We have the feeling that it doesn't matter to you. The important thing for you is to be quick and strong. This is one of the facets of this new authoritarian liberalism, which considers democracy as a chronophage, when one has to go fast, ever faster. It is true that the business community can no longer wait for this law, which they have largely inspired, and for cause! This has been said and revealed by many non-governmental organisations – NGOs – it is a small group of lobbyists representing the interests of multinationals such as Nestlé, Safran, Alstom or General Electric that has managed to convince the European Commission to draft a directive in favour of business secrecy. They even helped her by holding the pen throughout the process. The final result is up to their expectations: the level of protection of their affairs is considerable, so high that it limits freedom of expression, the right to public information and, ultimately, the public interest. Journalists, trade unionists, associations, NGOs and whistleblowers were not mistaken, as evidenced by the exceptional mobilisation against this draft directive: a petition launched by Élise Lucet collected hundreds of thousands of signatures; videos denouncing this directive have become viral; public debates are held; fora are published; Citizens' mobilizations were held. But business is business, and that has not been enough to push Europe back. This directive was endorsed by the great coalition of Liberals; The masks have fallen. Thus, often inclined to blindly denounce Europe, the National Front's elected representatives also came to reinforce themselves as allies of the system, business and financial circles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u292	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u293	Yet this is a fine example of all that the people reject from Europe. Let us come to the substance and the opportunity of legislating on business secrecy. It is, of course, legitimate to grant legal protection to companies in the face of threats of espionage. However, the state of French legislation already allows them to assert their rights if they consider that they have suffered harm. Commercial law, intellectual property law or contract law exist and protect, each in its own way, creation and innovation. Finally, what is the objective of this directive? It grants legal protection to almost all of the internal information of a company, which will now be covered by business secrecy. The acquisition, use and disclosure of this information could thus be prosecuted on the initiative of companies, silenced by employees and trade unionists who were willing to disclose serious facts and made journalists and whistleblowers aware of the behaviour of economic actors. By making the opacity of business in principle and by making transparency an exception, the directive you are proposing to transpose provides an ultimate legal guarantee to companies who are concerned with concealing their actions, whether they are legal, such as tax optimisation, or illegal. It will act as a weapon of massive deterrence against those actors who promote freedom of expression and democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This situation concerns us, too, parliamentarians, in the exercise of our functions. We are regularly contacted by citizens, employees, journalists, who transmit to us internal information to companies, accounting or social documents indicating an ongoing or future breakdown of a labour collective, plans to relocate, plans to raise buy out – LBO –, redundancies in preparation or proven tax fraud. This information is essential for us to anticipate, prepare, discuss and alert. What will happen in the future? As we can see, the concerns raised by the transposition of this directive are multiple and legitimate, as this initiative proves to be inconclusive, full of legal ambiguity and uncertainty. We were not reassured by the examination in committee and the weak answers to our questions. More generally, the political signal sent today is disastrous, as your law goes down the legitimate movement for transparency: that of public life, of course, but also that of business. When is a European directive introducing a country-by-country public reporting to shed light on the tax actions of multinationals? This text is also a terrible political signal, as it undermines the start of protection for whistleblowers in our country. However, ladies and gentlemen, without the whistleblowers, there would have been no Panama paper, the Mediator case and the Monsanto scandal would not have come out, there would have been no HSBC list or any salutary revelations about UBS. Our country owes a great deal to the courage of these women and men, whose protection is still largely inadequate. In many cases, whistleblowers have to deal with isolation, in what is often like crossing the desert, because they are confronted with multiple recourses initiated by much more powerful economic actors. When will the European Commission finally propose a European statute for whistleblowers? Rather than weaken them, when will you propose to strengthen their protection in our country? Our societies are on a dangerous path: one that tends to place business law higher than fundamental rights. By making the protection of cases a fundamental principle, this text is one of the illustrations. The so-called next-generation trade agreements, such as the Transatlantic Free Trade Treaty, the TAFTA, or the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, or CETA, and their arbitral tribunals are others. These are the illustrations of a shift that gradually weakens social pacts, which undermines the foundations of democracy and subjugates the sovereignty of the people. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] This submission is unacceptable to us. Law is seen as a tool of competitiveness that needs to be put at the service of, and for, businesses alone. We will never accept this drift, as those who act for the common good will never accept it by bringing to light the drifts of a breathless financial system. Whatever attempts are made to extinguish those who work for the common good, there will always be voices to break the truth. In this, I share the optimism of François Ruffin. Of course, we will always be at the side of those who work for the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u294	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u295	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if freedom of competition is a necessary and fundamental principle of economic and commercial relations, then it is still necessary for companies and individuals involved in it to use loyal processes in this context. Companies invest, devote significant research and development efforts, and develop their own business strategies, which must undoubtedly be protected. This is true of our country's economic development in an increasingly tense international context, as evidenced by the latest protectionist decisions on steel. It is about maintaining employment, competitiveness in our territory and reviving a true spirit of entrepreneurship, which has been neglected for too long, including in our country. The transposition of the European Directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure, the so-called 'business secrecy' directive, is of particular interest in this respect. The text of the bill before us is not intended to over-transpose the directive, as is too often the case in this area, but rather to incorporate it, at a minimum, into our law, except for a few high points, such as the extension of the protection of secrecy in all judicial and administrative bodies, as the Minister rightly pointed out. The most important point, on the merits, is the consecration of two principles: clarity and protection. The text brings clarity, because our national law did not previously have a definition of business secrecy, limiting itself to a jurisprudential construction based on civil liability, even if common criminal law can be applied and specific provisions exist, such as the protection of factory secrets. In addition, the organisation of measures of protection and reparation which may be implemented, under the supervision and by the decision of the judge, is clarified. But the most important, and perhaps the most innovative, point that has been most debated at this stage is the protection systems that have been put in place. Two distinct but absolutely linked objectives are pursued. First, the text aims to protect legitimate businesses and holders of business secrecy. The obligations of confidentiality, prohibitions of use or restrictions of access to the documents at issue, civil reparations, including the application of a principle of flat-rate compensation for damage, are just a few examples. But this right cannot exist in our democratic society without its indispensable corollary of protecting journalists, whistleblowers or employees with the right to information and consultation. There would be a real inconsistency with the latter in their intention to place them, in particular under the draft law on the action plan for the growth and transformation of enterprises – PACTE – at the centre of the company's transformation and the expression of its values, without granting them a protected right of reporting. In this case, it is not a question of resuming the foundations of the very recent law on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of economic life, known as the Sapin 2 Act. We have discussed it extensively very recently in the Law Committee. This law has found a recognized balance, which is now intended to apply in practice. But, beyond the protection of the fundamental right to disclosure, information, the disclosure in good faith of a fault, a reprehensible act, an illegal activity, with the aim of protecting the public interest, it is just as much the protection against intimidation which, as we know, journalists or whistleblowers can be subjected to, which motivates this bill. With this in mind, the text is further improved. It is indeed attacking, with increased vigour, the so-called "baby" procedures, of which we all know they exist. These include increasing the number of judicial proceedings against alerts or revelations and increasing threats and claims for damages with the sole aim of inciting them to inaction. This objective is fully in line with the European Directive, which calls on the Member States to ensure that it is achieved. It is subject to an original civil fine system capable of combating dilatory or abusive threats, reaching their perpetrators with full vigour, including in terms of reputation. This same concern to combat misappropriation of procedures will justify an amendment to extend the benefit of the protection of the confidentiality of cases to all judicial and administrative proceedings, so as not to limit its scope to those introduced on that basis alone. Of course, the judge's assessment and control will remain fully operational, including with regard to the organization of the adversarial debate, which remains the absolutely necessary foundation of our law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u296	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u297	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As we see it, it is a necessary and balanced text, dealing with a sensitive area situated at the junction between public interest and private interests, secrecy and revelation, a dull life of business and public thing. For all these reasons, he enjoys the full support of our political group, which will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u298	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u299	Madam President, the keeper of the seals, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting today to discuss the proposal for a law transposing the European directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure, often referred to in a very reductive way in my view as the'secret business directive'. Allow me here to return, after the rapporteur Raphaël Gauvain, who is also the author of the bill, and the rapporteur for an opinion Christine Hennion, whose work I welcome, to the context in which the above-mentioned European directive emerged and the reasons for its elaboration. In November 2013, Michel Barnier, then European Commissioner for the Internal Market, Financial Services and Intellectual Property, presented a draft directive – this will be the last legislative text he will present. In doing so, it acts in the continuity of what it has already achieved in favour of innovation and research and development within European companies, for example by finalizing the implementation of the European unitary patent, proposing anti-counterfeiting measures and presenting a plan for the defence and promotion of intellectual property. Because this European Commissioner knows that, in the processes of research, innovation and creation, a great deal of information emerges and circulates before being compiled and developed, that knowledge must circulate within a framework of confidentiality and trust – which is the key word here – and that introducing a climate of trust between companies, between research centres, between universities and between laboratories requires a comprehensive, common and harmonised legal framework, he proposes a European legislative instrument for the identification and protection of professional know-how. Why protect professional know-how and other undisclosed business information as part of a European plan? Because European legal fragmentation has had perverse effects for European companies, such as distortions of competition and legal instability, which undermines the proper functioning of the internal market and the research, innovation and competitiveness capacity of our companies. The aim is to provide a basis for trust and security in the exchange of confidential information and know-how, in order to improve intra-European cooperation and ensure its proper functioning. The European Union could not remain the only regional economic area for any longer without minimum legal convergence and uniform legal protection. The major competitive players around us, such as China, the United States and Japan, have specific legislative frameworks to address violations of professional know-how and other sensitive information. The text before us clearly defines – I will not go back to it in detail – cases where the obtaining, use and disclosure of such information is considered unlawful. Similarly, it defines conduct that must always be considered lawful. This point has been extensively developed by Mrs Custody of Seals, the rapporteur and the draftswoman for opinion. But let's go back to the essentials. It is a text that aims to protect European companies, our French companies, in particular their intangible heritage, that is to say, what has value, the fruit of their research, innovations, inventions and know-how, in short, everything that enables them to move forward by being innovative and ever more competitive. Some of these know-how, skills and discoveries will be subject to patent filing – certainly a lot. Nevertheless – this is the reality of the business world in our time, we must be aware of it – many of this knowledge, this know-how is not intended to be patented and introduced into the public domain. As you have said, Madam Keeper of the Seals, it is above all our SMEs, our start-ups and our companies which are extraordinarily innovative that the priority must be to preserve the processes of research and creation of any misappropriation, theft, looting and illegal actions, in order to build this foundation of trust which the knowledge economy so much needs. As rapporteur Raphaël Gauvain said, the European Directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure has been very widely approved in the European Parliament, by a majority of more than 80% – which is clearly trans-partisan. You will allow the rapporteur of the draft directive that I was in the European Parliament, which worked on it for more than 18 months, to draw this conclusion from such a broad, and therefore trans-partisan, majority of approval: we have reached a balanced text after substantially working on the draft directive and in some respects have rewritten, modified, enriched and improved it by our collective work. The text in no way threatens – these are very legitimate concerns that have often been heard and relayed to the European Parliament – freedom of expression, freedom of information and freedom of the media. It does not in any way threaten the work of journalists, particularly investigative journalists, nor does it threaten the exercise of the mission – which is so important in our democratic societies – of whistleblowers. Article 1 of the European Directive makes very specific reference, following several recitals, to the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information and to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, thanks to the European Parliament. These clarifications, this clarification in Article 1, therefore from the beginning of the text of the European Directive, seemed to the Members of the European Parliament to be a good response to the concerns expressed, some of which were legitimate and others the result of some incomprehensions or even manipulations. I myself, as rapporteur of the European Parliament, write the new Article 1, which clearly and solemnly enshrines the reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and to the exercise of the right to freedom of information and expression. It is also on the initiative of an Italian parliamentary colleague, a member of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, with whom I have worked very closely, that Article 1 of the directive contains provisions safeguarding workers' rights, for example in terms of mobility, to make use of their experience and skills acquired in the course of their duties. All these very important provisions were, once again, overwhelmingly approved by a large majority of the Members of the Strasbourg Parliament, attesting well, far from all the so-called connivances and complicitys with I do not know which powers of money, that the European co-legislator has been able to find the right balance between the preservation of the economic interests of our companies – which requires that they continue and even expand their research, innovations and creations in a secure and trustworthy framework – and that of fundamental freedoms, first and foremost, freedom of information and expression, so dear to our hearts. The desire to preserve this subtle balance but nevertheless firmly written in the European text has also led to a substantial rewriting of Articles 4 and 5 of the original draft European Directive. MEPs wanted to improve it, particularly for journalists, whistleblowers, but also for workers and their representatives, in order to protect the general interest. The draft law presented by rapporteur Raphaël Gauvain is faithful to the spirit and letter of the European directive. The work of the two committees of the Assembly seized has clarified and improved, in some respects, the proposed mechanism. It seems to us that the text is in the right direction. He's fair and balanced. It reconciles interests and concerns which may seem at first glance contradictory, but which I am sure can be seen in a complementary way, because a society that wants to create and innovate and a knowledge economy that wants to produce ever more creation and innovation, and thus fruits for the benefit of collective well-being, must also ensure the full development of freedom of information and expression. None of this is incompatible. This complementarity can very well be introduced in a European and French legislative text. That is why members of the Republican Group will vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u300	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1168.u301	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the proposal for a law transposing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The meeting is adjourned.
