ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u2	Mr Michel Delpon has the floor to put his question, No 153, on the production of hydrogen in Bergeracois.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u3	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. In Bergerac, unemployment is particularly high and non-relocable jobs are highly sought after. However, innovation associated with a potential growth factor such as hydrogen is a source of jobs. We already have hydroelectric, photovoltaic and biomass resources. Produced locally, hydrogen would be a performance vector for our territory and would strengthen its brand image linked to its recognition as a "biosphere reserve". All H2 applications could be grouped together: hydrogen for industry, for construction, for research and innovation, for the mobility of our citizens, for the conversion of electricity to gas – "Power to Gas". Communities and co-operatives, including farm equipment co-operatives, or CUMA, have mobilized to deploy hydrogen to the heart of the electoral district and meet future energy storage needs, as well as growing industrial demand. For Bergeracois, the storage of electricity will make energy storage the component of a strategy for the development of intermittent energies by developing the direct and indirect industrial fabric linked to these technologies, to secure in the long term the energy supply, to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, to create territorial consensus around a coherent energy policy at the environmental level, to strengthen the struggle undertaken in Dordogne against the production of greenhouse gases due to our farms and our agroforestry waste. The various methods of hydrogen production, including microbial photosynthesis, storage solutions and crystalline structures, will be the subject of applied and comparative research within demonstrators that will group all economically encrypted declinations. Can we consider the establishment of an industrial technical centre for hydrogen in Bergerac, in partnership with the industrialists of the sector, the Institut national de la recherche agronomique and the Université Bordeaux 1? What technical and financial support from the State could we count on?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u5	Member of Parliament, you interviewed Minister of State Nicolas Hulot, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. Unfortunately, he could not be present; That's why I'm answering in his place. You are right, honourable Member: hydrogen has a potential role to play in the energy transition, but that is on condition that we know how to produce it from renewable energies, for example via electrolysis. Several uses can thus be targeted, starting with the decarbonization of the process of production of industrial hydrogen, the industry being today the main user of hydrogen. Hydrogen also offers long-term prospects for massive and above all interseasonal electricity storage. This is already useful in isolated systems and could become valuable for the insertion of a large proportion of variable renewable energies into larger systems, such as in metropolitan France. To best prepare us for the arrival of these technologies, the State finances, through the future investment programme, several projects of "Power to Gas" demonstrators, led by network managers. Finally, hydrogen can provide a solution for clean mobility, complementary to electricity and biogas. In particular, hydrogen has key advantages for intensive uses that require high autonomy and low charging time. Many projects are taking place in the territories around fleets of professional vehicles; Examples include "Hype" taxis in Paris or high-level buses that are soon to be put into service in Pau. In this context, Minister of State Nicolas Hulot entrusted a mission to the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate and the Office of the Commissioner for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy, the CEA, to propose a strategy and accompanying measures to carry out first deployments in France and to strengthen the French industrial sector of hydrogen. The call for projects for pilot "hydrogen territories" launched in 2016 by the ministries of energy and industry had revealed the strong dynamics of French actors, particularly around the communities. It is now necessary to consolidate these projects and their economic model by grouping the uses of hydrogen around sustainable sources of production and moving on to another scale. The desirability of setting up technical centres will have to be assessed on the basis of the services provided to the ecosystem – for example, training, testing, qualification of materials, etc. – and an associated business model to consider the sustainability of the business. This will enable the State to consider possible support in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u6	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor to put his question, No 158, on the financing of the Seine-Nord Europe Canal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u7	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the report just made by the Infrastructure Guidance Board. I can only welcome the fact that it gives priority to everyday transport, while at the same time taking note of the need to carry out major projects, such as the Seine-Nord Europe Canal, which is of particular interest to me. One of the crucial issues remains the way infrastructure is financed. The report calls for an increase in the share of the domestic consumption tax on energy products, the ICTPE, and for the revenue from it to be allocated directly to transport. However, recent and future increases in the CTBTP weigh heavily on our citizens, particularly in rural areas. It is therefore crucial that they be able to see the effect of their efforts on their territory. I would therefore like to know whether the Government will follow the recommendations of the Duron report and allocate a new share of ICTPE to the regions and departments, which will enable them to develop transport, especially those of everyday life. Concerning the Seine-Nord Europe Canal, the Hauts-de-France region and the communities, under the leadership of the president of the region, Xavier Bertrand, took their responsibilities by accepting the regionalization of the project. However, the economic situation in the region prevented the creation of new taxes on its territory. I would therefore like to know whether, in the context of the allocation of the ICTPE to infrastructure financing, the Hauts-de-France region, in view of its commitment, will be entitled to an increase and whether an additional part of the rebalancing of taxation between diesel and petrol can be transferred to it so that it can finance infrastructure such as the Seine-Nord Europe Canal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u8	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u9	On 1 February, the Minister responsible for transport received the report submitted by the Infrastructure Guidance Board – composed of parliamentarians, representatives of major associations, communities and experts – in order to implement the priority given by the President of the Republic to daily transport. I would like to commend the quality of this report and the considerable work that has been done, in a few months, by the members of the Council. The new vision that this report brings, the priorities it sets out – in particular the regeneration of existing transport networks – and the proposals it makes, in particular with regard to the financing of transport infrastructure projects, are essential elements of work to prepare the measures relating to the planning and financing of infrastructure that the Minister of Transport will shortly present in the framework of the mobility policy bill. The report makes proposals on the allocation of ICTPE to transport projects, particularly alternative modes to road transport. All of these recommendations are currently under discussion, led by the Minister responsible for Transport, with a view to the introduction of the mobility guidance bill. As far as the Seine-Nord Canal is concerned, I stress that this is a major project for our country, which will have a very strong impact on the modal shift towards waterways. As you know, as a result of the proposals made by the communities concerned, the Government has proposed that State funding, amounting to about €1 billion, be made through a loan from the project company, whose annuities would be financed by local national taxes, such as for the Société du Grand Paris. In addition, in line with the guidelines set by the Prime Minister last October, if additional regional resources were needed, in line with the logic of modal postponement, the State would assist in the establishment of a relevant legal framework. The Minister of Transport and the Minister of Public Action and Accounts are currently conducting discussions with communities to secure funding for the project. Finally, the regionalisation of the project company will be carried out within the framework of the mobility guidance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u10	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u11	I am pleased to hear that this is a major project for our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u12	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor to put her question, No 154, on air links at Quimper airport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u13	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to one of the axes of the accessibility pact that the Brittany region recently proposed to the Government: the airport terminal. In particular, I would like to mention the case of Quimper Cornouaille airport and the airlines serving it. Quimper Airport hosts a regular link between Orly and Quimper, a vital link for the establishment of companies in the territory of Cornouaillais. Flights operated by Hop Company! are carried out in ATR, propeller aircraft connecting Quimper to Orly in an hour and a half. Due to the lack of trained pilots on this type of aircraft and the fact that these aircraft do not fly in rain and wind, their use regularly causes delays and cancellations that adversely affect the attractiveness of the airport. In 2017, 153 flights departing from Quimper were cancelled, which represents one flight every three days. This week alone, we deplored daily delays and cancellations. In addition, the pricing is very high, which deprives a large number of inhabitants of the Quimpérois territory of the use of the aircraft, an interesting substitute for the train or car for long journeys. You know that, Madam Secretary of State, and I have discussed the matter several times with Mrs Borne, the Finistère, department of the tip of the Breton peninsula, is penalized by its geographical location in the far west of France. It's a fact; But Quimper is, moreover, penalized by a form of enclavement which I will call functional, and which affects many territories: it is a question of distance from the metropolises, which, they, attract and mobilize the means and the main axes of communication. Maintaining quality travel to the rest of the country, and not just to a relay metropolis, is the guarantee of a successful economic development of our medium-sized cities. Cornwall is concerned; it needs all forms of mobility to exist. Can you explain to us what the Government is considering for our territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u14	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u15	Madam Member, air service to the territories is a major issue for French transport policy. The Government is also following with great attention the situation of the connections made by Hop!. The latter, resulting from the merger in 2016 of three regional airlines from the Air France Group, has recently been confronted with a pilot shortage, linked to the evolution of careers within the group, and a series of technical failures on ATR-type aircraft. Some lines have thus experienced an abnormal number of cancellations, notably in the second half of 2017. The delays and cancellations experienced by Hop's network flights! However, they are not acceptable to passengers or to the territories concerned. It is not permissible for such a breakdown of service to, among other things, penalize your territory, Madam Member. Though Hop! By virtue of its status as a private company, it has a wide autonomy of management on the Quimper-Paris route, which operates without public intervention, the Minister responsible for transport has asked the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation – DGAC – to ensure that the company takes measures to ensure that the air service of all the territories concerned recovers as soon as possible a level of quality of service in line with expectations. In particular, the company was asked to submit an action plan allowing for the rapid return to more robust operational conditions. Wishing to remain a major player in the service of the territories, the company has already confirmed that it has put in place preventive maintenance measures in order to limit the technical unavailability of its aircraft, which are still too frequent, and has accelerated its recruitment and pilot training processes to cope with the numerous departures. With regard to the connection between Quimper and Paris, the company states that two of the three daily rotations will be carried out, starting on 27 March, using an EMBRAER-type module – Empresa brasileira de aeronáutica – to replace ATR-type devices. This change will save approximately 15 minutes on the flight. The issue of the release and air services of the territories will be the subject of a debate within the framework of the air transport bases, which will be launched shortly by the Minister responsible for transport, and which I therefore invite you, Madam Member, to follow closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u16	Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor to put his question, No. 134, on the large-scale channel between Bray-sur-Seine and Nogent-sur-Seine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u17	In your policy, Madam Secretary of State, rural areas seem to be particularly ignored. The announcements made, through sponsored studies, about delays or even abandonments of investments in rural transport are worrying and, at the very least, question. A dossier such as that of the Bray-Nogent large-scale link, with a view to ensuring the circulation of barges of more than 2500 tons, is very beneficial in economic terms, but also, and in a very significant way, in environmental terms – it concerns you. However, this issue has been expected for several decades, since it was conceived after the Second World War. The public debate took place in 2015, and the studies were carried out almost to their end by the French inland waterways – VNF. So we are waiting for the timetable. Can you, on this point, Madam Secretary of State, reassure the rural territories concerned, and give us a precise timetable for carrying out the work I referred to?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u18	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u19	Mr President, thank you for your question about this large-scale river link project between Bray-sur-Seine and Nogent-sur-Seine. I am aware that promises that have been made, both on this project and on so many others, by successive governments, raise strong expectations of the people. In this case, it is a matter of extending the navigable network with a large gauge upstream of Paris and up to Nogent-sur-Seine, while reducing journey times. The project therefore responds to a demand for development, particularly from the industrial sectors of the region. This is a major project since the cost is estimated at some €290 million, including the creation of a ten-kilometre-long canal and new dams and locks. It should thus allow, once completed, a doubling of traffic; At least that's the goal. This project was reviewed by the Infrastructure Guidance Board, which submitted its report on 1 February. This body stressed its interest, in particular in the development of alternative modes to the road, the stimulation of the local economy and, more broadly, the widening of the service of the ports of the Seine axis. The Council thus retained a commitment to work at the very beginning of the period 2028-2032, regardless of the financial scenario in question. As you know, it is the purpose of the consultations that Élisabeth Borne is currently conducting, as well as the programmatic part of the mobility policy bill that will be debated here in the spring, to fix, for the next few years, the entire funding path for infrastructure projects for the state, and to do so with sincerity, without false promises – as successive governments have been able to do. As with all projects, the terms of reference for further studies and the timetable for the initiation of the public survey will have to be defined in a manner consistent with the time frame for the initiation of the work selected under the guidance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u20	Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u21	Your answer, Madam Secretary of State, cannot of course satisfy me. A public debate, I repeat, took place in 2015, and the state committed itself to the project. The word given by the State for several years, it seems to me, must be used for the future. I therefore do not understand that you can tell us today that the project will be postponed until the deadline of 2028-2032, particularly in view of the positive consequences it would have for the territories. The transport of one tonne of cereals from Nogent-sur-Seine to Rouen costs, I would remind you, 14 euros by rail, 11 euros by truck and less than 8 euros by water. The benefit is also without common measure in terms of greenhouse gas emissions: there are thousands of tonnes of CO. This should concern you, in view of your role in the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u22	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor to put her question, No. 137, on the Central-Atlantic Europe route.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u23	I would like to associate with my question all the elected representatives of Saône-et-Loire, in particular those whom the Minister responsible for transport met on 11 January during her visit to Bourbon-Lancy, during which I was able to appreciate the quality of her listening and her willingness to finally complete the construction of the Centre-Europe Atlantic (RCEA) road, which began almost fifty years ago. The report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board – IOC – which was submitted to it leads to a finding that we have all made for years: the dangerousness of the axis concerned, which is no longer at all adapted to the size of the traffic, in particular to the lines of trucks. The IOC therefore urges the completion of the two-track roll-out of the RCEA with the necessary appropriations of EUR 435 million as a matter of priority. The sustainability of the financing of this work is a very positive step and I would like, Madam Secretary of State, to welcome this first step. Nevertheless, the crucial issue of the timetable and the imperative acceleration of work remains. The distant horizon of an end of construction set at 2030 is unacceptable in view of the number of lives taken away on one of France's most accidental roads. At a time when we are all trying to combat road insecurity, it is imperative to shorten the deadlines for the construction of this site and to finish it in 2022, as in our neighbours of the Allier. Local authorities have agreed to increase their financial effort. The department of Saône-et-Loire, for example, has already committed itself to doubling the appropriations it allocates to RCEA. But agree, Madam Secretary of State, that without a major effort by the State, it will be impossible to guarantee within a reasonable period of time the safety that users are entitled to demand. So could you inform the national representative of the decisions you will take on this issue, whose urgency no longer suffers from delays?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u24	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u25	Madam Member of Parliament, you have asked me, and Elizabeth Borne through me, about the prospects of continuing the construction work twice two lanes of the RCEA in the crossing of the Saône-et-Loire. In 2013, 84 kilometres remained to be built in two lanes, at an estimated cost of 658 million euros. The system is structured into three phases of work. As regards the first phase, between 2014 and 2019, the agreed programme provided for a package of work worth EUR 184 million, of which EUR 152 million was provided by the State. This programme has been followed, and we can welcome it, since almost 22 kilometres of two-way sections have already been or will be put into operation before the end of the first half of this year. The announced budgetary pace is therefore kept, despite the constraints on road investment, in order to meet the announced timetables. As far as 2018 is concerned, € 24.65 million in commitment authorisations, coming from 82% of the state, are programmed, in an extremely constrained national budgetary context, as you know. This will allow the ongoing work on the Paray-le-Monial-Charolles section to continue and begin the work on the Prisse-Charnay-lès-Mâcon section. The Government's spring bill will include a "infrastructure programming" component that will build on the work of the Infrastructure Policy Council, chaired by Philippe Duron. The Commission delivered its conclusions on 1 February. With regard to the RCEA, it considered the guidelines implemented since 2014 to be relevant. It also recommended continuing the gradual development of public funds, while stressing that "the timetable for implementation could be shortened in the event of an increase in community participation in the financing of the work". We will therefore have the opportunity to discuss, in this House, useful projects to respond to the challenges of mobility in the daily lives of citizens, and compatible with public financial resources. Given the challenges of the RCEA project, particularly in terms of road safety, I am very much in favour, on behalf of Élisabeth Borne, of its continuation or even its acceleration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u26	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u27	I am delighted with this positive progress and hope that a consensus will be reached with the local authorities so that the project can be completed as soon as possible. I would simply remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that 50 people have lost their lives on this axis over the last five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u28	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor to put her question, No. 138, on the integration of Val-d'Oise into the Grand Paris Express project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u29	At the origin of the Grand Paris was the ambition to "build a city world, radiant, attractive, exemplary, not only by its economic performance but also by its quality of life, its urbanism and its architecture". For ten years, since Nicolas Sarkozy has spoken these words, and until now, the creation of the Greater Paris metropolis has struggled to prevail in the daily lives of our fellow citizens. Elected from Val-d'Oise, a department on the margins of the project, I can only regret it. Thanks to the attractiveness of the Paris metropolis, the departments of the great crown, including Val-d'Oise, are experiencing the strongest urban growth in France. However, transport infrastructure has not kept pace with this economic and demographic expansion. Movements, especially from suburb to suburb, are frankly part of the combatant's journey. For this reason, the Grand Paris Express is a source of hope. For Val-d'Oisiens who spend on average almost three hours a day in transport, accessing this network would be a real saving of time in everyday life and an undeniable comfort of life. But to date, only one station is planned, that of Triangle de Gonesse, and no connection is announced between this station and the rest of the territory. The route of the Grand Paris Express unfortunately translates! the caesure that exists between the hypercentre and its peripheries. There will be a total of sixty new stations in Île-de-France, including only one built in Val-d'Oise! The communes in my electoral district are less than five kilometres away from the future Saint-Denis Pleyel knot. No route is planned to allow them easy access. Today, the network is inadequate and saturated, so that 150000 Val-d'Oisiens take their cars every day to get to work, in the heavy traffic jams of the A 15. I therefore wish to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, what the Government intends to do to bring the Val-d'Oisiens of Greater Paris closer to transport, in particular to the future Saint-Denis Pleyel station.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u30	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u31	Madam Member, you are asking me, along with Élisabeth Borne, Minister responsible for transport, about the need for the Val-d'Oisiens to benefit fully from the Grand Paris Express in the coming years, and fear that Val-d'Oise will be left out of this big project. It is true that the Val-d'Oise welcomes only one station of the Grand Paris Express, at the level of the Triangle de Gonesse, on line 17. However, this station will not only develop urbanization in the area but also make it easier to connect the areas of activity close to Roissy airport and open access to the Grand Paris Express network. However, it will not be the only access point to this new network for the Val-d'Oisiens: the Grand Paris Express is largely interconnected with existing networks, including RER. These correspondences make it possible to spread to the great crown the beneficial effects of the Grand Paris Express in terms of service and travel time. In Val-d'Oise, several stations will allow travellers to access the Grand Paris Express under these conditions, including La Défense, Les Grésillons and Bois-Colombes, via the RER A and C and the J line of the Transilien, which serve the southern part of the department. At the level of Saint-Denis Pleyel, which you refer to, a connection will be ensured with the RER D by a bridge which will join the station Stade de France, for the benefit of the inhabitants of the eastern part of the department. Line H of the Transilien, which serves the central part of Val-d'Oise, also passes through this station, without stopping there. The creation of a stop would therefore be interesting for the inhabitants of Val-d'Oise. This technically very complex project is under consideration and the conditions for its feasibility have yet to be confirmed. Finally, the intermodal arrangements that will be carried out at the stations near Val-d'Oise will allow many Val-d'Oisiens to easily access the Grand Paris Express via surface networks. Thus, Val-d'Oise, like all major departments, will benefit from the contributions of the Grand Paris Express, whose aim is to improve the transport network for the benefit of all Francilians and regional development.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u32	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to put his question, No 139, on the toll in the municipality of L'Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u33	Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the situation of the toll located in the commune of L'Union, in my constituency, the second in the Haute-Garonne, and in particular what is called the "small toll". The A 68 motorway connects Albi and the Tarn to the Toulouse ring road. This motorway, free of charge from Albi, becomes pay for its last kilometers, between Montastruc-la-Conseilère and L'Union. The toll is located in the municipality of L'Union, a few kilometers before arrival in Toulouse. Another toll, known as "small toll", allows the inhabitants and employees of the Union to access the last hectometres of this motorway and to take the Toulouse ring road directly. This facility avoids traffic overload in this commune of the first Toulouse crown and its areas of activity. This "small toll" is currently a major blocking point for economic development and mobility in this area. Elected officials and local authorities have long been campaigning for its abolition. In addition to Toulouse Métropole and the Conseil départemental de la Haute-Garonne, a collective of fourteen communes in the Toulouse agglomeration wants to remove this obstacle to the movement of citizens and to the economic development of the Toulouse North-East. Finally, this toll is known to be one of the most expensive in France, since motorists have to pay 50 centimes of euro to make only a few hundred meters on the A 68 from the peripheral, towards the Union. Ideally, the removal of this toll could allow motorists to use this section free of charge, avoid crossing the Balma-Gramont interchange, which is currently saturated, and open up the commercial area of Balma-Gramont, where the seats of many businesses are located, by facilitating access to the ring road and metro station. However, the procedure for abolishing this toll is linked to the acquisition of the concession held by Vinci Autoroutes. Your ministry, Madam Secretary of State, has estimated this buy-back at more than 100 million euros, but the calculations were for the two tolls, while other calculations put forward the sum of 15 million euros for the purchase of the only "small toll" of the Union. What is the reality? What is the Government's position on this issue? Can we at the same time have a solid study on the cost of buying the only "small toll" and an impact study on transit traffic once this toll has been abolished? As the national foundations for mobility have shown, it is essential to pay particular attention to the transport of daily life in the peri-urban areas of metropolitan areas, such as Toulouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u34	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u35	Mr President, the contractual links between the State and Autoroutes du Sud de la France – ASF – provide for the application of a toll for the use of the last three kilometres of the A 68 motorway, between the toll barriers of L'Union and Toulouse East to the access ramps to Toulouse's East Rocade – A 61 or A 62. Free access to this section could only be obtained by compensating the company ASF for the loss of profits corresponding to the toll revenues not collected at the Union barrier as well as that of Toulouse East, until the end of the concession, fixed on 30 April 2036, as well as the additional costs of operating and maintaining the infrastructure linked to the traffic caused by the free entry. According to a study carried out by the collective of the fourteen municipalities responsible for requesting the abolition of the Union toll, the cost of the purchase would be around EUR 15 million. In view of the principle of equal treatment of users in front of the toll, however, it seems difficult to make only the purchase of the toll collected by the concessionaire at the level of the Union's toll barrier without also proceeding with that of the Toulouse East toll barrier. The order of magnitude of this buy-back would rather be between EUR 80 million and EUR 100 million. The implementation of a toll buyback scheme would require an amendment to the concession contract of the company ASF. It would then be up to the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities – ARAFER – and the Council of State to decide on the regularity of the partial or total redemption of the toll collected on the section in question. By these provisions, therefore, the legislator wanted the redemption of tolls to remain an exception. On the other hand, it seems desirable to the Minister responsible for transportation that this complex issue be addressed in a concerted manner. For this reason, it will shortly ask the Prefect of the Occitanie region to organise a round table bringing together in particular the relevant communities and the company ASF, in order to examine the conditions for carrying out a study which would allow to evaluate the full impact of the abolition of the tolls of the Union and Toulouse, whether with regard to the financial balance of the ASF concession or the movements at the level of the Toulouse agglomeration. On this occasion, the introduction of preferential subscriptions targeted at local users, involving the communities concerned and ASF, could be one of the scenarios envisaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u36	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u37	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The organization of a round table seems to be a very interesting suggestion, which will provide many solutions, including the one you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u38	I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to speak on his question, No. 159, on the nuisances linked to the high-speed line – LGV – Bretagne- Pays de la Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u39	Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the sound protection of the residents of the LGV Bretagne-Pays de la Loire which was put into service last July, particularly in Sarthe, Mayenne and Ille-et-Vilaine, and the depreciation of their property. These women and men are subjected to unacceptable noise pollution on a daily basis, which disrupts their sleep and reduces the pleasures of their private and family life, with the additional consequence being the financial depreciation of their property. There is therefore an urgent need for rapid and concrete action, particularly with regard to noise regulations for the protection of residents of such transport infrastructures. To measure the level of the nuisances generated, only one indicator is used, that of the equivalent sound level, the LAeq(T), which corresponds to the average of the noise produced by the LGV over two long periods. However, this indicator is not indicative of the reality of the nuisances suffered, as it dilutes noise considerably. This discrepancy between the sound level actually perceived and the rates chosen with the indicator LAeq(T) appeared in the document of the special committee of the public debate carried out by Réseau ferré de France – RFF – for the project of the LGV Bordeaux-Toulouse. In the present case, the elements taken into account were similar to those of the LGV Bretagne-Pays de la Loire. They revealed that with the LAeq(T) criterion, one hundred TGVs running at 300 kilometres per hour produce 57.4 decibels at 100 metres of instantaneous noise distance, when, in reality, a TGV alone, running at the same speed produces 85 decibels at the same distance. The difference in perception lies in the fact that the residents hear an extremely sharp peak of noise when the TGV passes, whereas the regulation takes into account only an average of smoothed noise, thus a reduced sound level. The residents of the LGV Bretagne-Pays de la Loire suffer this set of noise nuisances, sometimes up to 90 times a day on certain sections. The attractiveness of the departments crossed by the LGV must not be at the expense of the quality of life and the health of the residents. A balance must be struck not only by strengthening the sound, vibration and visual protections, but also by setting up compensation for the loss of value of real estate, without waiting for the results of the new acoustic studies requested by Eiffage Rail Express, since these follow the same criteria as previous studies. So, Madam Secretary of State, can you indicate what the ministry intends to do in order to respond concretely and quickly to the problems of the residents of the LGV Bretagne-Pays de la Loire? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u40	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u41	Mr President, I am replying to you in the place of Elizabeth Borne, who unfortunately could not be present today. The commissioning of the Bretagne-Pays de la Loire high-speed line, which took place on 2 July 2017, has led to a very important improvement in the railway service of the Grand Ouest. But, as you recall, it is also a major concern for the residents of the new line. I want to reassure you from the outset that the Minister responsible for transport is fully aware of the problem. We were seized directly by elected associations and parliamentarians. The noise impacts of the new transport infrastructure are strictly regulated by regulation. I confirm that the private partner Eiffage Rail Express will have to scrupulously respect the maximum permitted levels. In this area, the infrastructure manager has an obligation to achieve results. An extensive campaign of acoustic measurements is under way to ensure compliance with these standards. The results are expected in a few weeks, in the course of April. If deficiencies were to be identified, the private partner will have to put in place, without delay and at its own expense, the necessary corrective measures. The Minister responsible for transport has asked the State authorities to pay close attention to compliance with these provisions. Member of Parliament, you also call the Minister's attention to the relevance of the current regulations. In the rail sector, this is actually based on the measurement of average noise. It is likely that in the future this method of evaluation will need to be supplemented by a verification of the recorded peaks for infrastructure. The Government's objective is to respond quickly to the feelings of local people and elected officials. That is why he asked the prefects concerned to organise follow-up committees, which involve the public, to ensure compliance with the regulations by partner Eiffage Rail Express. The responses that can be made will then need to be discussed with all stakeholders. In particular, the Government supports the mobilization of the Territorial Solidarity Fund for any action aimed at improving the environmental integration of the new infrastructure outside its control and beyond the necessary regulatory obligations. On the basis of the results of these measures, the Minister of Transport will bring together the local and regional authorities concerned to prescribe possible additional work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u42	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u43	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. As long as you do not change the criteria for evaluating sound measurements, you will get exactly the same results. I would therefore like to invite the minister responsible for transport to spend a day, one night among the residents of the LGV Bretagne-Pays de la Loire, so that she can measure their exasperation – the word is weak when some wonder whether they should not hair a red hat or turn the sector into an area to be defended, to be finally heard by the public authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u44	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor to put his question, No. 142, concerning the opening up of the South Ardèche.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u45	Madam Secretary of State, the Ardéchois have reached the limits of their patience. They expressed it yesterday in the street, through a demonstration that brought together elected representatives of a wide variety of origins and denominations. For more than thirty years, they have been waiting for the bypass of the Teil and the development work on the national road 102. The Department of Equipment identified the project in 1986 and declared it in the public interest in 1993. Twenty-five years have passed, during which traffic has doubled: 16,000 vehicles a day, including 2200 heavy vehicles, cross the streets of the town of Teil, which is on the edge of asphyxiation. This situation is no longer tenable, especially since the state has had the audacity – not to say anything else – to come to collect the communities to pay for part of this operation. Indeed, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region and the Ardèche departmental council will put on the table €28 million to modernise a national road, which falls within the competence of the State. In these circumstances, it seems to me that the least of the marks of recognition would be to start the operation. Stop postponing Teil's bypass: we won't accept it anymore! The Ardèche has no rail passenger transport. The Ardèche has no highway. The East-West link is decisive for its economy, for the development of the southern Ardèche, for the Albenassian basin and for the development of the ardèche mountain. As for the circumvention of the Teil, it is absolutely essential to the quality of life of the Teillois, who can no longer have to bear these nuisances. From now on, there is nothing to prevent us from finally implementing this project. Studies were carried out, land acquisitions were made, contracts were even awarded. If I understand that budget arbitrations are sometimes difficult, I would not understand that we are being doubled and that these arbitrations benefit others for no good reason. Minister Élisabeth Borne recently publicly stated her willingness to open up rural areas: whether she proves it, by making RN 102 a priority for 2018 and not for 2019 or 2020. To show you how determined the Ardéchois are, I am making a proposal, Madam Secretary of State. Everyone knows, the department of Ardèche is extremely rich... Therefore, he is willing to make the advance of the State's credits: we are ready to grant you the cash you miss! The Ardèche, a state banker, is a tense hand that you can't refuse. Thank you for taking it today, for taking it now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u46	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u47	Mr President, you have wished to inform the Minister of Transport, Elizabeth Borne, of your attention to the development of National Highway 102 in Ardèche, in particular to the implementation of the project for the north bypass of the Teil agglomeration. The RN 102 is an important axis for connecting the south-east of the Central Massif to the Rhone Valley. It thus effectively serves a vast territory. The State's road investment policy in Ardèche today consists of a combination of actions, including the implementation of the Teil bypass. This project is part of the current Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes State-region plan contract for a significant amount of €63.8 million, of which €35.3 million is provided by the State. This project consists of a new, bi-directional, 4.5-kilometre road infrastructure, bypassing Le Teil through the West and the North. His declaration of public utility was issued at the end of 2011 and extended by a prefectural order of 26 September 2016. This operation is strongly supported at local level, both by the regional council of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes and by the departmental council of Ardèche, which contribute 17 and 10,9 million euros respectively to the financing plan of the operation, finalised by an agreement signed recently on 22 January. Aware of the need to secure the transit and exchange traffic times, as well as the need to secure and improve living conditions for residents of the RN 102, the State services have mobilized themselves to take this operation forward. Detailed design studies of the project have continued and the final file, including an accurate cost estimate, is expected to be approved soon. Archaeological excavations have already been carried out in the first half of 2017. The procedures for the control of the land required to carry out the operation have been completed: the last acquisitions of land and demolitions of houses continued until the end of 2017. The priority given to ongoing operations and the budgetary difficulties of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, AFITF, did not allow to include in the initial programming 2018 the work of the circumvention of Teil. I take note, on behalf of the Minister of Transport, of the proposal made by the Department of Ardèche to make the advance of the State appropriations to allow a rapid start to the work. This proposal reflects the mobilization of local actors around the project, and we hear it. I would add that the financing of the operation is under very careful consideration: we are currently studying the possibility of adding additional funding capacity. Indeed, this project is fully in line with the policy that the Government wishes to pursue for the de-enclavement of the territories – a government priority, Mgr. – since it will significantly improve access to the Rhône valley and, beyond that, to the Drôme for the Ardéchois.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u48	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u49	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. I just want to say, "One more little effort! You are referring to additional appropriations: I would ask you to confirm them very quickly and, of course, to confirm that they will be destined for this ardéchoise operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u50	Mrs Marion Lenne, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 145, concerning the South-Leman RER project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u51	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the need to support German mobility, in particular the South-Leman RER project, an extension of the Geneva Express between Évian-les-Bains and Saint-Gingolph-Switzerland. I associate with my question the deputies La République en marche de Haute-Savoie, Frédérique Lardet, Véronique Riotton, Xavier Roseren, Ain, Olga Givernet, and the French abroad of Switzerland and Liechtenstein, Joachim Son-Forget. At the Council of Ministers on 20 December, the Government identified two priorities for mobility: first, to address the imbalances in current transport; Secondly, think about tomorrow's mobility. The French Chablais, the fifth electoral district of Haute-Savoie, will certainly benefit from the end of the "white zones" in terms of mobility, as well as from the planned plan of de-enclavement. Let me point out that the lines of the brand new Léman Express network will come into being in 2019. The completion of this project, which dates back more than a century, will see the birth of the largest cross-border RER in Europe, which will link Geneva, Thonon and Evian quickly and effectively. The opening up of the French Chablais necessarily implies the development of an offer adapted to this cross-border mobility, of regional interest and which is of vital importance to all of us in terms of the future of our territory and its economic and tourist development. In addition, east of Leman, the opening will be railway and lake. Indeed, while the Duron report recalls that the motorway link between Machilly and Thonon-les-Bains is a local project, its multimodal, rail or lake continuity gives it a fully national and international dimension. Therefore, the resumption of the South-Leman RER line, also known as the Tonkin line, enjoys the strong support of the Swiss authorities and deserves the same support on the French side, so that the tower of Lake Geneva from Geneva-Cointrin International Airport can be connected by rail. Thirty-five years after the Inland Transport Policy Act, I would therefore like to know the Government's intentions with regard to the reopening of the South-Leman RER line for passenger transport, and, more broadly, whether cross-border and multimodal projects will be integrated into the future mobility policy bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u52	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u53	The Évian-Saint-Gingolph section is part of the so-called Tonkin line that connects, south of Lake Geneva, Saint-Maurice, in Switzerland, to Geneva, via Evian-les-Bains and Thonon-les-Bains. The French section between Saint-Gingolph and Évian, 18 kilometres long, has been closed to traffic since 1988. Passenger traffic stopped in 1938, freight stopped in 1988, and the passage of the "Rive-Blue Express" tourist train extended the operation of the line until 1998. A project to put the line back into service is envisaged by local French and Swiss actors, with a view to the creation of a continuous rail service on the south shore of Lake Geneva and the possible integration of the line into the Geneva RER after the creation of the Cornavin-Eaux Vives-Annemasse network, known as CEVA. Existing studies indicate that this line could receive an average of 1,800 travellers per day, assuming about 15 trips per day during the week. The preliminary studies and the first phase of the preliminary studies, funded from the Interreg V programme, have been completed. An application for funding for further studies will be submitted by the region to Interreg V in mid-2018. Studies could be carried out by 2020. The cost of the project, which includes the creation of new stations, is now estimated at 191 million euros under the economic conditions of 2015. The French financing of the reopening of the Evian-Saint-Gingolph line is not included in the plan contract concluded between the State and the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, which constitutes the single framework for the financial intervention of the State in the operations of renewal and modernisation of regional railway lines hosting passenger traffic. Beyond this aspect, the particularly strong constraints on the budget of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, AFITF, as well as the priority given to the operations for the reliability and security of the network raise the question of the means that the State can mobilise for the regeneration of the regional lines of the national rail network. There is a need to prioritize funding to match the needs and resources available, ensuring priority is given to the structuring network. You'll easily understand that, deputy. Therefore, the plan to reopen the line between Évian and Saint-Gingolph requires that the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, the organising authority for regional rail transport, and all the local and regional authorities concerned themselves identify the most relevant answers, in particular from an economic point of view, to the questions of sustainable mobility, according to the characteristics of the territories, in order to find the best compromise for our citizens between the scarcity of resources, on the one hand, and the supply of rail at regional level, on the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u54	Mrs Marion Lenne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u55	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for these points of answer. Let me stress once again the need to support German mobility, in particular through the Leman Express. I am well aware that the project is already formalised and implemented for 2019, but in order to give it overall coherence, the reactivation of the Tonkin line must be supported by the state. I therefore count on you to ensure that this reactivation is put on the agenda of the next meeting of the Directorate-General for Transport Infrastructure and the Sea with its Swiss counterparts, on 24 April in Lausanne – a perfect place, you will agree, to mention the German mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u56	Mrs Severine Gipson has the floor to put her question, No 148, concerning the SNCF lines in Normandy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u57	My question will have a particular resonance for thousands of Normans, because it concerns the difficult situation faced by users of Norman SNCF lines. On 26 December last, traffic at the departure and arrival of Saint-Lazare station was completely interrupted for several hours. Of course, this has made the headlines of the newspapers, but it is every day that the trains are broken, late or deleted, and it is unexplained. While the Normans pay a fare worthy of high-speed lines, travel times have increased for twenty years, making Normandy the only region of France that has moved away from the capital and which, together with Corsica, does not see the TGV passing. The daily lives of users are affected by these abolitions, breakdowns and delays: it is thousands of personal and professional lives that are put in trouble, and it is a whole region that suffers with territories deprived of the hope of economic and tourist development. I am aware of the efforts made by the State, which is committed to financing the renewal of rolling stock under the agreement with the Normandy region, by taking over the acquisition of forty Bombardier Omneo Premium trainsets and by developing the maintenance device. I fear, however, that this will not solve the problems associated with the chronic lack of investment in this once profitable line. This situation can no longer be sustained. Pepy had stated in 2010 that "the SNCF [had] a debt to Normandy." Since then, the situation has deteriorated. At the time of the announced reform of the SNCF, what measures does the Government intend to implement to reduce the number of incidents, so that the Normans do not let the train of modernity pass?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u58	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u59	Madam Member, you call our attention to the situation of the Norman railway lines, on which the service does not appear satisfactory. In particular, you are aiming for a chronic investment deficiency that would cause numerous breakdowns and delays. It must be admitted that you are right: the regularity of the Norman lines was not good in 2017. The Minister of Transport is well aware of this situation, in large part related to the reliability of aging rolling stock. Without waiting for the renewal of this equipment, actions have been taken by the operator to improve the service, in particular by monitoring the train preparation as best as possible. This had a positive impact in the second half of 2017. With regard to this renewal, as you mentioned, the State is taking over the acquisition of 40 Bombardier two-level trainsets for an amount of 720 million euros. This new equipment is destined for the lines Paris-Caen-Cherbourg/ Trouville-Deauville and Paris-Rouen - Le Havre. Commercial releases are planned between 2019 and 2021 and should lead to a significant improvement in both comfort and regularity. The State is also involved in the financing of rail transport infrastructure, alongside the region, in the framework of the State-region plan contracts – CPER – with Normandy and the inter-regional plan contract State-region – CPIER – Seine Valley. Nearly €450 million of investments are planned by 2020 for the modernisation and accessibility of Norman lines. The State will also be careful that, beyond these operations, the necessary investments in infrastructure renewal are made by SNCF Réseau, so that the condition of the tracks, in particular, allows the railway mode to offer a high level of robustness and, of course, safety. Finally, the modernisation of the Serqueux-Gisors axis, whose realization phase is financed to the tune of 90 million euros by the State, will make it possible to offer an alternative route to the classic route Paris-Rouen - Le Havre for freight trains, and thus contribute to the desaturation of the network.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u60	Mrs Severine Gipson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u61	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State, which bears witness to a real awareness of the problems we face on a daily basis. The people who take these transports, as I do myself to come to the National Assembly, do on a daily basis. The population has changed and needs these trains every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u62	I call Mr Saïd Ahamada to speak on his question, No 151, concerning the fight against maritime pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u63	I would like to address the issue of pollution from ships' fuel, which would cause 60,000 deaths every year in Europe – this would be tantamount to removing from the map cities like Chambéry or Valencia. The sulphur content of these vessels, particularly in the Marseilles harbour, is 3500 times higher than that of diesel motor vehicles. Every year, the social cost of this pollution would be 58 billion euros for Europe! I commend the Government for the willingness it expressed at the Interministerial Committee on the Sea – CIMer – last November to combat this type of pollution. Measure 18 provides for the State to support and support port and maritime actors in their transition to liquefied natural gas (LNG) powertrains. On the basis of the economy of the sea, the Prime Minister mentioned two projects: on the normative level, the adaptation of regulations to facilitate the supply of LNG to ships in ports; In financial terms, the study of measures to be taken by the Government to assist stakeholders in the sector in the development of LNG-fuelled vessels and to accompany them. As Special Rapporteur on Maritime Affairs, I would like to know more precisely the action plan that is or will be implemented by the Government after these announcements, as well as its timetable. You have understood, every day lost today, they are human lives lost in France and Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u64	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u65	Mr President, you are asking the Minister of Transport and, more broadly, the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition about the implementation of measure No 18 of the last Interministerial Committee on the Sea, on the public support of maritime and port actors in their energy transition to liquefied natural gases. Reducing air emissions, whether global warming or air pollution, is indeed a major issue that France is vehemently defending with the International Maritime Organisation and the European Union. In this context, the transition from ships to liquefied natural gas is a solution that we strongly wish to encourage. Many French ports are already largely mobilized and a national strategy for the deployment of LNG infrastructure in ports was drawn up in December 2016. The aim is now to deploy fixed and mobile LNG installations, such as storage vessels, to seafront-targeted ports by 2020-2025. This involves regulatory adjustments, including local regulations for the transport and handling of dangerous goods; These are already under way in the various major seaports. In addition, work on the revision of ship depreciation arrangements has been initiated in response to the need to encourage fleet renewal. They are expected to conclude in the coming weeks to find their place in the 2019 Finance Bill. This is a government priority that we will have the opportunity to discuss again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u66	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor to put her question, No 140, on third-party access to natural gas storage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u67	The Energy Regulatory Commission – the CRE – is currently preparing third-party access to natural gas storage. The scheme also provides for the regulation of operators' incomes. In short, storage capacity will be marketed at auction and the differences between revenues and regulated revenues will be compensated. I'll spare you the details, because it's a real gas factory. It wouldn't be a big deal if the company TIGF, one of the two players in gas storage in France, whose headquarters are based in Pau, didn't alarm me to tell me that it will get out of it weakened. The closure of storage in the south-west is even imagined. That's disturbing! Since 2013, TIGF has increased its market share from 20% to 36%, but the value of the assets retained by the regulator would be 30% lower than the company's economic valuation. With this calculation, TIGF predicts revenue losses in the future, in the order of 26% compared to its 2017 turnover. Conversely, the revenues of the other market player, Storengy, a subsidiary of Engie, would increase significantly. Without questioning, of course, the independence of the CRE, I seek to understand whether the competitiveness of offers is properly taken into account. If the existence of a form of imbalance of treatment between operators were to be confirmed, it would be a bad signal to investors. Madam Secretary of State, do you have any elements to reassure the gas industry in my region?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u68	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u69	Madam Member, you are questioning Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. Underground storage of natural gas is an essential logistical link in gas supply in France. The creation of stocks near consumption areas during the summer period reduces the risk of network saturation and responds to heavy consumption during winter periods. They thus contribute to the proper functioning and optimisation of the gas system and avoid the development of additional network infrastructures. Storage in the south-west of France, far from the main natural gas inlet flows to France in the north-east, is fully involved. The legislative framework for underground storage has been thoroughly reformed through Act No. 2017-1839 of 30 December 2017 putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and laying down various provisions on energy and the environment. Thus, the storage infrastructures necessary for the security of natural gas supply are defined within the framework of the multiannual energy programming and operators of these essential infrastructures are obliged to keep them in operation. The reform consists in setting up economic regulation of operators of these essential storage infrastructures, in order to ensure better control of costs for the benefit of the final consumer and their coverage by the tariff for the use of natural gas transmission networks, which ensures that infrastructures remain in good condition regardless of the economic conditions of the market. Moreover, the storage capacity of essential infrastructure is marketed through public auctions, a transparent and non-discriminatory mechanism that ensures the filling of storage. The Energy Regulatory Commission plays a key role in the implementation of this reform. It is responsible for regulating operators of essential storage infrastructure, as it already is for other gas infrastructure. It shall set the rates for the use of the transmission network in order to cover the costs of the infrastructure for the provision of the transport service. Finally, it lays down the modalities for the auctioning of essential storage infrastructure capacity. As an independent administrative authority, the CRE has extensive experience in regulating energy markets, and its decisions are being developed. With regard to taking account of the economic performance of storage infrastructure, I would like to point out, on behalf of the Minister of State, that the law authorizes the implementation of incentive regulation mechanisms, which the Government is in favour of.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u70	Mr Gilles Le Gendre, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 156, concerning the fight against trademark piracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u71	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, brandjacking – brand looting, in good French – consists, for online hotel booking platforms, of diverting customers from the establishments with which they are or are not in commercial relationship and thus forcing hoteliers to pay commissions that undermine their profitability. Let us look a little more at the details of this complex mechanism. When an Internet user seizes on a search engine, especially on the most famous of them, whose name begins with a "g" and ends with a "e", a request for a specific hotel, the first links that appear are, not that of the hotel's site sought, but those of the booking centres, which we will not advertise here, because all those who have experienced them know them perfectly. These sponsored links have as their main title the names of the institutions sought, but they redirect users to these booking platforms, which benefit from the best places on the search page. This is the result of a well-known auction system of all advertisers on the Internet, which reserves the best locations for the most bidders. This phenomenon has been even more harmful since February 2016. On that date, the same search engine has made advertisements less and less recognizable, so that they appear as classic and objective information. The yellow graphic chart that characterized the sponsored links was replaced by a simple "advertisement", graphically embedded in the text, in such a way that it was least identifiable. On the other hand, the search engine gives more and more space to commercial links, while non-commercial referencing is relegated to the bottom of the search page. The result is obvious: the consumer is deceived. According to a study by the UK Telecommunications Regulatory Authority in spring 2016, one in two adults does not differentiate between advertising content on a search engine and a non-commercial search result. This practice is extremely penalizing for hotel operators, and even more so for small establishments, such as the Latin district, of which I am the elected one, many of which are doing a great job for the attractiveness of this high place of the capital popular with foreign tourists. It also undermines the transparency of consumer information and therefore constitutes a serious infringement of the proper functioning of competition. Secretary of State, in welcoming the tireless fight that your ministry, under the leadership of Bruno Le Maire, is leading, on other fronts, to force the world's major players on the Internet to respect the economic and fiscal rules of the game that they free themselves too easily, I ask for your help. What actions could you take to effectively combat this unacceptable practice of brand looting?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u72	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u73	Mr. Member of Parliament, like you, the Government is committed to ensuring that consumers have transparent and fair information, which is a prerequisite not only for them to defend their interests and make the best choices, but also for competition between companies to be effective and to ensure the optimal functioning of markets. In this regard, the Government is mindful of the fact that the major platforms are not free from the rules of consumer protection and competition. While the development of the digital economy is a source of many opportunities, it must be regulated to ensure transparency, loyalty and trust, serving both consumers and businesses. The regulation of platforms is thus a fundamental focus of the Government and the Ministry. On 29 September 2017, the Government signed three decrees to strengthen the loyalty and transparency of platforms. Search engines, but also sites that offer hotel rankings or referencing, must, since 1 January 2018, specify the criteria for classification. Moreover, for each ranking result, in the vicinity of the offer or classified content, any online platform operator shall disclose, by any means clearly distinguishing that result, the information according to which its ranking was influenced by the existence of a contractual relationship, a capitalistic link or a remuneration, including for advertising, between it and the supplier referenced. These provisions are crucial because the ranking of websites by search engines or that of offers by comparator sites have a major impact on the behaviour of consumers and therefore on the lives of businesses; This is particularly the case in the tourism and accommodation sector. These decrees have also reinforced the obligations of platforms in other areas, in particular with regard to false online notices – which, again, distort competition – as well as consumer information on market places or collaborative economy sites. You're asking me what the Government is planning for 2018. In its 2018 investigation programming, DGCCRF, the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention, has planned to conduct inspections of these sites in order to verify compliance with their obligations and to ensure that stakeholders have clear and fair information, in accordance with the decrees I have cited. If, as a first step, it is a priority to raise awareness among professionals, particularly small businesses, of the new provisions, sanctions will be applied quickly. As a reminder, in 2016, the DGCCRF had controlled nearly 11,000 websites. I would add that if the purchase of keywords allowed by the platform is not in itself a default, the hotelier who would see his trademark used without authorization can implement the complaint procedure organised by the platform, or even act in civil liability against the author of the damage. We stand by your side to accompany these professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u74	Mr Gilles Le Gendre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u75	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the highly reasoned, precise and convincing nature of his response, which would bring appeasement to a profession that called him his wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u76	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor to put his question, No 133, on remuneration within the financial ministries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u77	Mr Secretary of State, the first President of the Court of Auditors has addressed to the Ministers Le Maire and Darmanin, recommendations inherent in the remunerations of the senior management of the economic and financial ministries. Before I get to the heart of the matter, honesty leads me to say that the note points out that in some areas improvements have been observed. Having said that, we are faced with some old practices that continue. The time given to me does not allow me to go into the details; I will also read two headings of the report. The title of paragraph 2.1 reads: "The high level of remuneration of deputy heads of public finances is difficult to justify". We are talking about an average wage of 202000 euros, up to 256000 euros. If, in my personal capacity, I am not shocked to see talent properly paid, I would stress that the professional risk of these senior officials is close to zero.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u78	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u79	The second element is much more serious, and I quote the title of paragraph 1: "The persistence of irregular practices in compensation matters". Some bonuses would be paid without a legal basis, while others would be paid through the irregular use of the supplementary function allowance. Bercy is a quality administration, but sincerely, this is all messy. This is a mess, for these very high-ranking officials with gold salaries are the very ones who apply rigour to our whole society; They should be blameless. This is messy, because it gives the feeling of a caste that allows itself a lot. This is a mess at a time when our prisons, our nursing homes, our army are sorely underfunded. Finally, I would say that it is in the interest of the President, former Minister of Economy, and the Prime Minister, both from the senior public service, to ensure that this issue is resolved without delay. Mr Secretary of State, I have no doubt that the Government's response is reassuring for the future, although the general level of remuneration will remain extravagant for a few hundred senior officials. My question concerns the following points: when premiums are paid without a legal basis, are they intended to be reimbursed? Should not the legal liability of the authorising officer and the accounting officer be incurred? Was there not, in this case, a breach of the basic rules of public accounting?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u80	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u81	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u82	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u83	Mr President, in its report of last October on the remuneration of senior management of economic and financial ministries, the Court of Auditors recommends that the remaining irregularities in the payment of certain allowances and the overpayment of the deputy heads of public finances, AGFIP, be stopped. With regard to irregularities, it should be recalled that since the beginning of the 2000s the economic and financial ministries have been involved in a general movement to restore the premiums to legal order, which is now almost complete. The last remaining difficulties, which are rightly pointed out by the Court of Auditors, are linked either to transitional arrangements in the process of extinction or to measures designed to continue. In the first case, the Minister of Action and Public Accounts decided to move forward with the termination of these arrangements, which were born during major reorganizations and concern less than ten executives – seven, more specifically – on 1 January 2019 instead of 2023, as originally planned. In the second case, the compensation concerned will all be given a legal basis. This is a file currently being worked on by the Director of FIPB. With regard to the remuneration of AGFIPs, it should be recalled that it corresponds to a very strong managerial responsibility, with local directorates having several thousand agents. Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors is right to call for greater consistency in the remuneration of senior management, which requires a reduction in the highest remuneration. These reductions in remuneration have already begun to be applied, even before the publication of the Court of Auditors' report. Thus, between 2013 – the first full year of implementation of AGFIP remuneration – and 2017, the gross remuneration allocated to AGFIP fell by EUR 10 million, a decrease of 19.4%, while at the same time the number of staff decreased by 14%. New measures will enable the Court to respond to its observations: the abolition of the highest rank of AGFIP, the exceptional class, will lead in particular to the abolition of thirty-three of the forty-two highest salaries of the Ministry. Finally, let us not forget that the questions put by the Court of Auditors on remuneration policy are part of a more general reflection aimed at increasing the variable share according to the merit and performance of the executive heads of the State. These developments will be built in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u84	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u85	Secretary of State, I am not blaming the ministerial team that is currently leading Bercy. Having said that, I was afraid of that answer. You yourself mentioned the irregularities; My question was not about the progressive regularization policy you are following, but about the control of past irregularities. When particularly large premiums are paid without being based on a text, should there be sanction, yes or no?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u86	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u87	Admittedly, the issue is difficult and complex; It calls into question the highest officials of the State, in any case the best paid. Unfortunately, as I feared, you did not answer this question that the French are entitled to ask themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u89	When's the penalty?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u90	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u91	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u92	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to raise her question, No 152, concerning the staffing of the Court of Appeal of Aix-en-Provence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u93	Madam Keeper of the Seals, my question concerns the human resources available to the courts under the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal of Aix-en-Provence, and in particular the Court of Grand Instance of Aix-en-Provence. To date, eight high-level and eighteen high-level courts are under the jurisdiction of the Aix-en-Provence Court of Appeal. They are divided into four departments: Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, Alpes-Maritimes, Bouches-du-Rhône and Var. The 600 magistrates and 1500 civil servants assigned to these courts, including 134 magistrates and 200 civil servants at the Aix Court of Appeal alone, make it possible to render more than 25,000 judgments per year in the civil chambers, 5000 in the correctional chambers and more than 150 in the assize courts. Every year, the Ministry of Justice publishes a job location circular detailing the number of judicial posts to be created, calculated on the basis of the volume of activity. However, there is sometimes a gap between these new posts and the number of actual appointments: many posts are not filled due to the lack of available magistrates. The case of the Court of Appeal in Aix-en-Provence is particularly eloquent: 41 judicial posts are vacant to date, plus 104 vacancies for clerks and civil servants. The Court of Grand Instance of Aix-en-Provence, in particular, finds itself in great difficulty. The situation is all the more worrying as the new prison in Aix-Luynes 2 is expected to be overcrowded very quickly. The theoretical number of prisoners is 640, but 930 prisoners are already planned, bringing the total number of prisoners in the prisons of Aix-Luynes 1 and Aix-Luynes 2 to nearly 2000. This will inevitably lead to more activity for the courts of jurisdiction, which will be difficult if not impossible to absorb in the current state of human resources. Aix-en-Provence has been a historic city of law for five centuries. Its Court of Appeal and the courts under its jurisdiction account for just over 10% of judicial activity in France. The problems of understaffing are a reflection of a tense national situation, but I believe that his case deserves special attention. I would therefore like to know what are the causes of this shortage of judges and how you intend to remedy this, Madam Keeper of the Seals, both in Aix-en-Provence and at national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u94	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u95	Madam Member, you have drawn my attention to the situation of the judiciary of the Court of Appeal in Aix-en-Provence. First of all, I would like to point out that, for more than five years, resources have been mobilised at national level to support the implementation of the various reforms undertaken. Particular attention was paid to recruitment, by a very significant increase in the number of posts offered in the competitions and by the organization of complementary competitions, despite a constrained budgetary context. As I have had the opportunity to tell you on several occasions, the 2018 Justice Budget, an increase of 3.9%, is the first step in a five-year programming law that will improve the day-to-day functioning of jurisdictions. In 2018, 148 new posts in the judicial services, including 100 judicial posts, will fill vacancies in court and develop teams around magistrates. As you have pointed out, the job location circular sets the number of positions per jurisdiction, by function and by grade in the courts of appeal, the courts of main instance and the courts of appeal each year in order to ensure the normal functioning of the courts. In particular, with regard to the Court of Appeal in Aix-en-Provence, the current job location circular provides for 651 judges over the entire jurisdiction, including 491 at the headquarters and 160 at the public prosecutor's office. I am not unaware of the vacancies you have highlighted, but the Ministry of Justice is seeking to fill them. The situation is expected to improve significantly this year, due to the proposed appointments released yesterday, February 19, and the development of the list of positions for the 2016 promotion auditors, who will take up their first judicial duties on September 1st. This will reduce the number of vacancies for two prosecutors and at least seven judges at the seat, subject to the advice of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. I can assure you, honourable Member, that my services pay great attention to the situation of each jurisdiction, and in particular that of the Court of Appeal in Aix-en-Provence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u96	Mr Gilles Lurton, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 136, on judicial reform and interdepartmentalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u97	Madam Keeper of the Seals, the year 2018 will see the installation of the court of Saint-Malo-Dinan in a new judicial city, in Saint-Malo, which will bring together the court of great instance, the court of instance, the council of prud'hommes and the court of commerce, thus equipping the magistrates with a formidable tool that should allow them to project themselves towards the future. This achievement is rare enough to be emphasized, and I will be very happy to welcome you to Saint-Malo for its inauguration. This new judicial city would not have been possible without the mobilization of local elected officials, magistrates and lawyers who, following the 2007 judicial reform, accepted the merger of the courts of Saint-Malo and Dinan, two courts located in different departments. This merger is now working very well; with the magistrates, the bar of Saint-Malo-Dinan, the prud'homaux advisers and the judges of the commercial court, we wish to preserve it for the future. I do not hide from you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that the report by our former colleagues Dominique Raimbourg and Philippe Houillon on the organisation of our judicial system, which was handed over to you on 15 January, worries us. First of all, it worries us about its opposition to interdepartmentalisation, even though it was it in Saint-Malo that allowed us to preserve the indispensable proximity between justice and citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u99	The Committee is also concerned that it proposes to re-establish a local court next to a court with re-defined jurisdiction, with a reorganization of the jurisdiction of the courts of high instance at the level of the departments, in order to re-establish in each of them a single court of first instance. In our view, such a proposal runs counter to easy access to justice for our fellow citizens. Therefore, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to know your intentions with regard to the proposals of this report, and to remind you once again that, as far as we are concerned, we want to make the Court of Saint-Malo-Dinan a court of full exercise, whose prerogatives extend to a territory covering part of the Ille-et-Vilaine and part of the Côtes-d'Armor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u101	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u102	As you know, Mr. Member of Parliament, and as I have already had the opportunity to say on several occasions before you, the Government launched, last October, the "projects of justice", which cover five themes, one of which concerns the adaptation of the territorial organisation of justice. The reports on these five projects were submitted to me on 15 January. On that date, I initiated a two-phase dialogue with all stakeholders, with the first phase almost completed. As I have already had the opportunity to say, the reform of the territorial organisation of justice aims to satisfy the essential interests of the litigants – it is my first prism and it is in line with your concern, Mr Lurton. We must ensure that people have access to justice that is simple, direct, transparent and, I hope, prompt. On the basis of these principles, developments have been envisaged by Mr Raimbourg and Mr Houillon. Subsequently, we will make concrete and operational decisions, which will find their translation in the 2018-2022 law of programming for justice and will have to reconcile the requirements of proximity, specialization and efficiency of the courts. As far as the courts of Saint-Malo and Dinan are concerned, I would be happy to accept your invitation, Mr. Lurton.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u103	[[Smile]] Good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u104	I say again before your assembly what I have already had the opportunity to say: of course, no judicial site will be closed. On the other hand, we imagine that a reform of the network can be thought of as an opportunity to modernise our judicial organisation for the benefit of the citizen. The reform, as envisaged at this stage by the rapporteurs of the "fields of justice", is based on the desire to strengthen the proximity with the litigants by keeping as closely as possible all the cases of the day-to-day, tried by the trial courts. More specialized or complex litigation will need to be decided by more efficient collegial teams. It would also be desirable to ensure a strengthened criminal chain at the departmental level in order to build more effective criminal policies. In my view, this will ensure real proximity and greater efficiency. At the end of the first phase of consultation, which has already taken place, as I have told you, I will propose principles for judicial organisation. However, these principles will not apply immediately on the territory, because I do not want to decide everything about Paris. I hope that there will be a process of consultation at local level, which will allow us to assess in practical terms how the organizational principles we have set out can be applied in practice and thus differentiated across each of the territories. This is what will happen for Saint-Malo and Dinan: I will have the opportunity to refer to a consultation, carried out at local level, the modalities for applying the principles that we have set out. I assure you that the reform that we want will not be at the expense of the service rendered to the litigants, nor to the detriment of the proximity that we must guarantee to the people who are dealing with our public service of justice. I am sure that we share these objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u105	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u106	Madam Keeper of the Seals, thank you for your answer. Like you, I believe that initiatives should start at the local level. I will, of course, convey your answer to the magistrates and the bar of Saint-Malo, who has asked to meet with you to discuss these matters with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u107	The next item is the question by Mrs Annie Chapelier, No 146, concerning the compensatory benefit on the death of the debenturer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u108	The compensatory benefit, Madam Keeper of the Seals, fixed in the form of a lifetime annuity before the entry into force of the Act of 30 June 2000 on divorce requires a legislative adjustment, in the interests of justice and fairness. In France, in 50,000 old or recomposed families, the husband was sentenced, in a divorce pronounced before the entry into force of the Act of 30 June 2000, to pay his ex-wife a life annuity of compensatory benefit. Both debt and maintenance, this lifetime pension, most often paid in more than 20 years, represents an average amount of just over EUR 150000. As a reminder, since the entry into force of the law of 30 June 2000 on the compensatory benefit in respect of divorce, the sums claimed in the form of capital are generally payable in eight years and represent on average €50000. The legislator has therefore given the laypersons the opportunity to request the revision or abolition of their pension without hiring their children. Today, these spouses divorced before 2000, whose average age is over 80, continue to pay more than 25 per cent of their income to their ex-wife. None of them disputes this payment, made quite naturally. But a thought haunts these demitters: after their death, the capital conversion of this annuity will be taken from the inheritance without the family of the second bed being able to oppose it. For pecuniary reasons or for fear of the negative result of an appeal, these debenturers dare not take legal action; They live in the haunt of leaving their heirs a catastrophic situation. Problems arise at the time of the death of the debtor, when the estate is divided, the assets of which are reduced from the debt represented by this annuity converted into capital under a prohibitive scale. The situation is all the more unfair as this pension becomes superfetiary, with the vast majority of creditors receiving a survivor's pension on the death of the debtor taking over the compensatory benefit. This compensatory benefit therefore creates situations of inequity, since the penalty of the heirs is added a new moral pain and an unbearable financial burden for these recomposed families – I mean the widows and children of the second bed. In the face of this paradoxical situation concerning only a few aging families, would it not be possible to foresee the abolition of the debt on the death of the debtor for divorced persons before the year 2000?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u109	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u110	Madam Member, I am aware that the passive transmissibility of the compensatory benefit, which implies that on the death of the debtor, his heirs continue to pay it, could have had difficult to tolerate consequences when the remarried creditor had higher incomes than the debtor subject to new family responsibilities. But equally difficult situations were to be taken into account, i.e. those of the first wives only having to face their financial survival to their former spouse for making the choice of a family rather than a career. For this reason, the Law of 30 June 2000 retained the principle of the transferability of the compensatory benefit to the heirs, in accordance with the common law of succession. Nevertheless, this transmissibility has been considerably adjusted to alleviate the burden on the debtor's heirs. First of all, the 2000 Act introduced an automatic deduction of the amount of the compensatory survivor's pension benefit paid to the divorced spouse on the death of his former spouse. Second, the Act of 26 May 2004 specified that the payment of the compensatory benefit is levied on the estate and within the limits of the estate: thus, in the event of a lack of assets, the heirs are not liable on their own property. In addition, the same law established the automatic substitution of capital for an annuity, the amount of which will take into account the sums already paid, unless the heirs agree unanimously, the scale of capitalisation referring to the mortality tables of the INSEE and to a capitalization rate of 4%. When the heirs decided to maintain the annuity by personally obliging themselves to pay the benefit, the law opened an action for revision, suspension or abolition of the lifetime annuity in the event of a significant change in the resources or needs of either party, including for the annuities awarded before the law came into force. Finally, for life annuities fixed prior to 1 July 2000, an additional option of revision, suspension or termination has been provided where their continued existence would give the creditor a clearly excessive advantage in relation to his age and state of health. Finally, the Act of 16 February 2015 specified that account was also taken of the duration of the payment of the pension and the amount already paid. The mechanism resulting from these successive laws seems to me to be balanced and, at this stage, their revision is not part of the Government's plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u111	Thank you, Madam Minister, for being here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u112	Welcome, Minister of National Education. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to put her question, No. 130, on the "More teachers than classes".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u113	Minister of National Education, the school card is now known for the next school year. It is, it can be said, a great redeployment. Everywhere, the departmental directorates had to juggle with the posts in order to achieve the class duplication in REP – priority education network – and in REP + – enhanced priority education network. We do not dispute this duplication, and I also know, minister, your allergy to quantity, which you recently recalled. However, many of our institutions need additional resources to catch up with the abolitions of previous governments and to meet the needs on the ground. The accounting logic in fact leads to class closures in schools in neighbourhoods that are recognized as priorities. This is the case, for example, in the Henri-Wallon and Joliot-Curie schools in Gennevilliers, in my constituency, yet located in the only district of the city classified ANRU – the National Agency for Urban Renewal – namely the Agnettes district. These institutions were removed from the priority ranking because the sector college, Pasteur, lost its classification in 2014 for reasons still strictly accounting, which had prompted mobilizations. This decision serves not only pupils but also families and teachers, legitimately waiting for priority education arrangements to accompany them. All indicators show that these schools are classified as REP+. So you will understand that teachers and parents cannot accept for the next year a kindergarten closure and one in elementary school in Wallon, and a kindergarten closure in Joliot-Curie. Minister, I ask you to reconsider the decision to close these classes. I also ask you to examine with the utmost attention the situation of the entire sector of the Pasteur College for the allocation of resources to the next re-entry, as well as the possibility of ranking schools as well as the college in REP. More generally, my question is that of accompaniment to the schools that have recently emerged from the REP+ classification, while they still have very important needs, much more important in any case than those of the beautiful neighborhoods of other cities in my department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u114	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u115	Madam Member, there are several questions in your question. I would like to start with the most general elements that you have mentioned, in order to break up an idea that some are trying to spread right now – because I understand that there was some kind of campaign about it. I would like to remind you of two fundamental figures: 32,650 pupils less next year in primary school, and 3,881 additional teachers. These figures say everything: they show the priority given to primary school, not in quantitative but qualitative terms, since these additional means are allocated to the duplication of classes of CP in REP +, then of CP and CE1 in REP + and in REP the following year. I think you know that. I also think that some people who are involved in the public debate also know that very well. Today, pretending to believe that rural classes or neighbourhood classes are being stripped for the implementation of this measure is wrong. But I can see that, despite my own repetitions, despite my answers, that everyone can verify, and which allow us to know that, at the next start of the school year, the rate of supervision at primary school will improve, as will the situation in REP and REP + and in rural departments. It is open to both to pretend to believe otherwise, but it is not the truth. I come to the specific subject that you are referring to: that of Gennevilliers. Prior to this, it is necessary to determine what a school in priority education is. As you know, it depends on the ranking of the college in REP. This rule can be discussed, and I am quite prepared to do so, but for the time being, it applies. In the case you are interested in, it turns out that the Collège Pasteur in Gennevilliers, to which are attached the schools you mentioned, came out at the start of the 2015 school year of the new priority education map. Since then, the Joliot-Curie School has, however, benefited from a framework to support the educational priorities, known as "CAPE", which includes a job under the "More teachers than classes" scheme in order to maintain a support rate favourable to pupils. This accompanying framework expires in 2018. However, we will maintain it at the next school year, which should help to keep away the fears you might have for this school.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u116	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u117	Just a word about the general elements of the debate. You know, minister, what political confrontation is, it has its exaggerations on either side, I believe. But there are also, and I am sure you are aware of it, realities on the ground that are not misleading. Today, to distinguish the institutions that still have the possibility to be in REP or REP + thanks to the goodwill of the previous government, according to very random and very arbitrary criteria, and to consider everything else as a big lot in which there would be no distinctions, no differences, no specific accompaniment for schools yet located in recognized neighborhoods, they, as priority by the politics of the city, is to give yourself a caricatural character to your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u118	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 143, concerning the closure of classes in the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u119	Mr Minister of National Education, I would like to draw your attention to the conditions under which the number of classes in the Sarthe department will evolve at the next school year, and thus to the quality of the pedagogical supervision of the children and their success. Indeed, the announcement of the absence of new posts for the Sarthe department on the occasion of the 2018-2019 start-up gives rise to a double question. In rural communes, classes may have to close due to a fairly high maintenance threshold, knowing that there are more than 120 four-class schools, 128 exactly in 2017, and that school difficulties exist there as in the city, especially in some working-class neighbourhoods. For example, past assessments have shown school difficulties in some rural areas. In urban municipalities there is also the risk of weakening young people who could be better accompanied, but will not be. Here again, Sarthe is illustrated by success rates at apprenticeships slightly lower than the national and regional averages. In both cases, one of the reasons given is the need to identify the number of teachers needed for the classroom arrangements for 12 pupils in CP and CE1 as a priority education network – REP. Finally, I note that some reflections raise concerns that the nursery school as a whole may be affected in the long term by a movement of savings. In this regard, I pay particular attention to the study conducted by France Strategy: in 2016, only 7% of children under the age of three were enrolled in a specific class, which some will take as an opportunity to discuss the relevance of the proposed schooling. For me, rural schools and schools in priority areas should not be opposed. The risk of a new, slow and therefore invisible fracture exists. I ask you, Minister, if you do not think that educational objectives and learning objectives should be taken into account beyond the simple ratio of pupils to teachers in order to allocate resources and ensure that they are distributed fairly. I would also like to know whether it would be possible to take advantage of the demographic decline announced in order to improve the educational framework, to take account of rural specificities and not to weaken in the city classes which, if they are not in a priority sector, still have to enjoy a sustained and sufficient level of supervision. I hope that you will take all these elements into account in making final decisions that are useful to all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u120	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u121	Madam Member, I can only provide positive answers to your question. I think you're laying it down in good faith, and so you're going to be satisfied: indeed, all you're saying is what we're doing! Thus, in your department, next year's supervision rate will improve. And yes, as you pointed out, there is a demographic decline, which we are taking advantage of to improve this level of supervision. You have expressed your concern for kindergarten: at the end of March, my ministry organizes assizes of kindergarten. The aim is absolutely not to save money on this sector, but to really have a renewed qualitative approach. I have never said that the France Strategy study on the schooling of students under the age of three, to which you referred, should be the point of support for a questioning of schooling at the age of two. I simply referred to this study in order to look at what's best for students under two years of age. I immediately stated that school attendance at the age of two would continue next year. We simply need to do so in full qualitative awareness. As you certainly know, I attach great importance to nursery school as well as to the classes of CP and CE1, those of the first years of life. I therefore attach importance to the rate of supervision, in REP and REP + but also outside. This also allows me to return to Mrs Faucillon's question: yes, we must avoid any binary vision, whether it opposes the REPs and REP + with the rest of France or the rural with the urban! That is precisely what I am trying to do. It must be explained that the new posts are created to allow for duplication and in no way lead to stripping rural areas. But when elected representatives, and especially parliamentarians, pretend to believe in such an intention and publicly say that the rural area is being stripped for the benefit of the urban, it is they, forgive me for saying so, who are harming the REPs and REP+, some of whom are located in rural areas. In doing so, they accredit in the public opinion the idea that rural areas should be opposed to urban areas. The opposite is the case: our budget choices give priority to primary school and thus allow us to finance this double measure, which everyone appreciates and which will benefit the country as a whole. They certainly do not serve us to oppose rural and urban areas, especially since the former benefits from a specific policy. Which brings us back to the Sarthe: you can benefit, Madam, from a departmental contract of rurality. This measure, which I entrusted to Senator Alain Duran with the responsibility of supervising, has already allowed us to sign conventions in forty departments. Of course, I am very vigilant on the issue of school closures. In the Sarthe, fourteen small schools could have closed if we had only a purely accounting view of the subject. However, these fourteen small schools have not closed. It is within the framework of the departmental contract that one must look at their future, so as to revitalize the territories, and certainly not by blindly closing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u122	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u123	Thank you, Minister, for these elements. We will follow the subject carefully. I note that you do not take the French Strategy report as a source of proposals for kindergarten. I hope that more children under the age of three will attend school, because we know the benefits of education at an early age. At the same time, we will remain very attentive to the conventions that will be proposed in the department. I share your view that the campaign should not be opposed to the city. As in the city, there are needs in the countryside, which must be taken into account, and the decline in demographics must be used to improve management. In short, I am against these somewhat caricatural oppositions and I am counting on you, minister, on your commitment, for answers to be given in fact and through action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u124	Mr Fabien Roussel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 131, concerning the overall hourly allocation of vocational schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u125	Minister of National Education, my question concerns secondary education. Today it is difficult to find in Valencien, yet a land of industry, electromechanicalians, welders, boilermakers or even young people trained in maintenance, industrial control or process control. Entrepreneurs alert us to their difficulties in hiring such profiles. In such a context, the reduction of hourly allocations in some vocational lycées is difficult to understand. It penalises our industrial sectors and puts at risk sectors which are nevertheless rich in employment prospects, at home and in the North. This is the case for the Lycée du Pays de Condé, whose vocational education section will be amputated for 114 hours, which will result in the closure of two half divisions of pro-electronic bac and a half-maintenance division. However, these two sectors offer highly sought-after job profiles by companies, as evidenced by recent job advertisements by Toyota, Safran or Sevelnord. These downsizings and closures of divisions are all the more damaging as they affect a district, Valencienois, which in 2017 had more than 38,000 unemployed people, and a region where nearly one in three young people are looking for work. In total, the Lille Academy could lose 110 positions in vocational schools due to a decrease in the number of students expected by the next school year – I know in advance that you will oppose these figures. But what the figures do not know is that these sections often accommodate students who are more fragile, or others who reorient themselves in the course of the year or course while they were in great difficulty in general education. As an indication, the second electronic of the Lycée du Pays de Condé has thus increased from ten to twenty-two pupils between the beginning of September 2017 and the beginning of January 2018. While our companies find it difficult to recruit from the living pools where they are installed, can you, minister, take these remarks into account in order to give the Lycée du Pays de Condé the means to ensure its trainings of electronic pro bac and maintenance?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u127	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u128	Mr President, thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to take stock of the challenges facing vocational education next year and beyond. As you know, I have defined this teaching as my second priority, the first being primary school. There is, of course, no question, in the coming times, of weakening it. Indeed, what you said at the beginning of your speech is quite right: at a time when the economy is restarting and there are needs, many young people are unemployed. This situation is not acceptable. More young people could be trained in occupations leading to jobs. We are well aware of that. That is why we are promoting vocational education and learning in order to provide real answers. In general, vocational education does not have more significant budgetary problems than the rest of the school system. This is even the opposite: the rates of supervision are more favourable. In vocational high school, the average number of pupils per division was 19.1 in the 2017 school year, compared with 19.4 in the previous school year. This is a significant improvement. In addition, 17.7 per cent of teaching hours are provided to students below 10. All the academies are currently preparing for the start of 2018, which, as you said, will be marked by a dynamic demography. However, the demographic context is less constrained in the labour market: it is expected that there will be a decrease of about 0.9%, i.e. 4,500 fewer pupils than in the previous year. We are therefore working on this distribution. I will look at the case of the Lycée du Pays de Condé which you mentioned: we know of course how to adjust the means according to the needs, i.e. according to the number of pupils as well as the nature of the fields and the occupational integration that they allow. I will pay particular attention to this high school in order to help ensure that the Valencian continues to have a bright industrial future, which obviously requires successful vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u129	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u130	Minister, thank you for your answer. I went around the professional high schools in my constituency: in these fields, they do not suffer any reductions in endowments, except this high school in the Land of Condé. That's why I wanted to question you about his situation. In fact, particularly in the automotive sector, we have strong job demands, while the unemployment rate among young people remains very high. It would be a shame to deprive young people of the training provided by our vocational lycées while on the other hand, companies are ready to hire. Thank you, Minister, for examining the situation of this high school with the greatest benevolence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u131	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor to put his question, No 161, concerning the criteria for ranking as a priority education network.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u132	Mr Minister of National Education, I would like to ask you about one important issue: priority education, and more specifically the priority education map. In this regard, you have quickly cleared the necessary resources, doubling the CP classes from the start of 2017 and planning to do so for the CE1 classes as soon as next fall. From a pedagogical point of view, this seems to bear fruit, which I am deeply delighted about. But it is precisely the success of this system that reinforces a feeling of injustice in certain neighbourhoods in difficulty classified by the State as priority areas of city policy. It is on this just feeling of injustice that I wish, Minister, to question you. Indeed, the mapping of priority education networks has been based on the social criteria most statistically correlated with academic success, such as the percentage of students from the most disadvantaged socio-professional categories, the percentage of scholarship students, the percentage of students from the priority neighbourhoods of city policy and the percentage of students who are lagging behind at the time of entry into sixth grade. This classification makes it possible to identify in a rather fine way the networks that require additional means in order to offer their students the same chances of success, and so it is very well. But it would be a measure of full social justice to assess these criteria not on the basis of the school of attachment, but on the basis of the neighbourhood where the students live. In my view, this is a fundamental point that needs to be changed in order to move towards more justice and equal opportunities. In my constituency in La Rochelle, two school groups each located in the heart of a priority district of the city's politics, René Descartes in Port-Neuf and Barthélemy Profit in Villeneuve-Les-Salines, are excluded from the network while all sociological indicators indicate that they should benefit from the accompanying arrangements and therefore from the duplication of classes. So, Minister, since the priority education card must be reviewed for the 2019 school year, and as I know you are committed to the ambition of working for greater social justice, so as to ensure that every student has the means necessary for his or her success, I hope that you will put the book back on the job in order to remedy these unquestionably unjust situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u133	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u134	Mr President, your question is very important because it relates to the very definition of priority education. It is true that there will be a geographical redefinition in 2019, and that it must also be an opportunity to rethink our concepts, whether in school, college or high school. First of all, I want to recall the applicable rules, and therefore the factors that explain the situation that you have described. Between 2013 and 2015, the process of revising the map was based on the following principles. Firstly, a stabilisation of the number of priority education networks – REP – which accounts for 20% of students in France – is in any case the ceiling that has been set, because beyond that, priority would have lost all meaning. Secondly, the maintenance of two differentiated levels of networks, REP and REP+, the choice of clear and transparent indicators, defined at national level, and close collaboration with academies to ensure that local realities are best taken into account. Finally, the establishment of networks of schools based on the data of the college to which the schools of the sector are attached. The new priority education is therefore based on the networking of a college with schools. There is also a social index, based on the share of pupils whose parents have disadvantaged socio-occupational occupations or categories, the share of scholarship students, the share of pupils living in sensitive urban areas and finally the share of pupils arriving in sixth grade with at least one year delay. Schools whose pupils attend these colleges are classified in the priority education networks after checking, in the territory, the following four criteria: the percentage of pupils whose parents have disadvantaged professions or socio-professional categories over the last four school years in CM2, the unemployment rate of the active population between the ages of 16 and 60, the percentage of persons over the age of 15 without a diploma and the tax income per unit of median consumption. For example, 89% of REP+ colleges are located in priority areas of city policy or less than 300 metres from one, and 55% of REP colleges are located in priority areas of the city. If the observed perimeter was 1000 metres around the city's priority neighbourhoods, the correlation between the two maps would be 99% for PER+ and 81% for PERs. Taking into account the only socio-economic criteria of the neighbourhood to determine the priority education networks would not be without problems. In fact, the criteria of the neighbourhood concern the whole population and not just the parents of pupils. However, there may be neighbourhoods where the total population is very economically disadvantaged, but where young couples with children are less disadvantaged. This priority education map is intended to be reviewed every four years. We will therefore rework it for 2019. We will draw the consequences of situations that have been analysed or deficiencies that have been identified, such as the one you are reporting. For my part, I will also be attached to the evolution of concepts. Thus, I will rest on the question of the systematic linking of schools to colleges for the definition of priority education networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u135	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u136	Thank you, Minister. I know you're a Republican reformer. I hope that the 2019 school year will see the concepts evolve so that neighbourhoods that have recently become priority areas of city politics and that – a paradox poorly experienced by teachers and especially the parents of students – have lost means will experience concrete improvements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u137	Thank you for your presence, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u138	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor to put his question, No 129, on the reliability of the Ariane launcher.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u139	Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, on 25 January last, the setting up of two telecommunications satellites by Ariane 5 launcher was put at risk due to a significant deviation from the launcher's trajectory. Since then, it has been learned from ArianeGroup's management that satellites will be able to return to their nominal orbit in a few weeks. The lifespan of satellites is, however, reduced. This half-failure must lead the shareholder state to give serious consideration to the elements that have been able to put an end to the impressive series of Ariane 5's successes. In keeping with the January incident, it should be noted that, beyond the industrial issue, the safety of the inhabitants is at stake, because the launcher flew over Kourou, which is a first. On the other hand, the credibility of the launcher is at stake, and therefore the maintenance in the medium term of a decisive strategic capacity for France. The first internal investigations following this incident evoke the likelihood of a "human error". This expression is unfortunate and conceals the problem rather than identifying it. There is no human error that is worth it regardless of the working conditions that allow them to emerge and the procedures that should prevent them. Specifically, in January, there was only one audit of the shooting program, instead of usually two. The result appears to be a failure. What are the consequences for future launches? It is not for a parliamentarian to audit the large industrial enterprises in which the state participates. However, it is well known that ArianeGroup's reorganization is not painless. In 2017, Arianespace lost several dozen of its employees, almost 10% of its payroll. This restructuring was mainly due to duplicates identified between ArianeGroup and Arianespace. While the state's financial contribution to the sector remains important and legitimate, Madam Minister, what steps have you taken and intend to take to ensure that such an incident does not happen again, and more broadly to ensure the sustainability of a highly strategic, advanced know-how?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u141	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u142	Mr President, you are right to point out that advanced know-how of highly strategic value is one of the French and European prides in the field of satellites. On 25 January, the launch VA241 was carried out from the Guiana Space Centre in order to orbit two satellites, SES-14 for the Luxembourg operator SES and Al Yah 3 for the Emirati operator Yahsat. The launch protocol and procedures were strictly identical to those of previous launches. During the launch, the Ariane 5 launcher followed an incorrect 20-degree southward trajectory from the start of its mission, which led to the injection of the two satellites into a so-called "degraded" orbit. However, contact with the two satellites was restored a few minutes after the end of the mission. They now reach their final position thanks to their own engines. Following flight VA241, the European Space Agency set up an independent commission of inquiry, chaired by the Agency's Inspector General. The Commission is expected to deliver its conclusions by the end of February. At the same time, ArianeGroup, Arianespace's launcher's industrial manager and parent company, has also set up an internal commission. In-depth conclusions on this anomaly will therefore be made by the commissions of inquiry. It is already established that the original cause of the incorrect trajectory is the result of an incorrect specification of one of the parameters of the launcher's mission, which was not detected during the checks carried out in the launch preparation chain. ArianeGroup, Arianespace and their partners will strictly follow the recommendations made by the independent committee of inquiry of the European Space Agency, in order to ensure that Ariane 5's rapid launches are resumed in all the conditions of reliability and security required. With regard to the security of the population in Guyana, it should be stressed that Ariane 5 did not fly over Kourou, even though its trajectory approached it more than at the previous launches, which obviously generated a great deal of emotion. On the other hand, the launcher was working perfectly and was therefore never dangerous for local populations – I repeat that it was a parameter error and not a failure of the launcher. To prevent this from happening again, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation and the National Centre for Space Studies have undertaken joint work to explore the possibilities of further strengthening monitoring processes and security measures at future launches. Despite this anomaly, Ariane 5's reliability remains exceptional, as you recalled. The corrective measures that will be put in place will further enhance its reliability and the safety of future launches. I reaffirm France's commitment to independent access to space, as well as my confidence in all actors in this sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u143	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u144	Thank you, minister, for the clarifications that only half reassure us. How can we guarantee that such an event will not happen again, when the space sector is left to private interests? How can we not see otherwise in this first failure, at least in this first alert at the launch of this rocket, which is the most reliable in the world, the effect of the privatization of Arianespace, the sale of the shares of the Centre national d'études spatiales in Safran and the reduction of personnel, necessarily leading to a decline in the quality of service? We will therefore remain vigilant on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u145	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor to put his question, No. 149, on the fight against saviour sales in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u146	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of the Armed Forces, my question is to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior. Indeed, I would like to draw his attention to the worrying situation created in Paris by sales by saviours. This situation is not new, and you know it well. They are about a thousand to settle as early as the middle of the night in different districts of our capital: gate of Clignancourt, gate of the Chapel or door of Montmartre, in the third constituency of Paris of which I am the deputy. These markets find their roots in poverty, but also produce daily nuisances for the residents: noise, dirt, difficulty to move because of the waste. The situation has "enkysted" in our neighbourhoods, to use an expression used by actors on the ground. However, with this issue, I also want to highlight the initiatives of the police forces to take these issues together. I therefore welcome the initiative of the Divisional Commissioner of the second district of Paris, as well as the Commissioner of the 18th arrondissement. In recent months, brigades specializing in the fight against saviour sales have been set up, in coordination with all law enforcement agencies on the ground, and with a real adjustment of resources. Proven results have been obtained. They made it possible to reduce the number of sellers to the rescue. This type of initiative fully fits into the philosophy of the daily security police that you are putting in place and that I welcome. Does the Government commit itself to continue to support these initiatives by sustaining the resources and staff set up to combat saviour sales, to take into account the specific nature of the territories, including in Paris, and to bring the people living in the area the serenity to which they are entitled?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u147	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u148	Mr President, the fight against saviour sales in Paris is, as you have pointed out, one of the priorities of the police prefecture's services. These sales are concentrated geographically. Everyone knows that the 18th arrondissement of the capital unfortunately occupies a separate place in this field and suffers serious nuisances, especially in terms of public safety. In order to remedy this situation, the police services have continuously adapted. The creation, on 3 November, of the "counterfeiting rescue" brigade made it possible, in particular, to intervene in the sensitive places of the borough. This brigade carries out daily operations of eviction and seizure of goods, in connection with the directorates of the city hall of Paris and the services of the neighbouring communes. These operations can be supplemented by verbalizations and requests for the removal of vehicles used to transport and store products. The results are positive. The number of saviours has been significantly reduced, with no postponing effect on adjacent streets. A few figures show the effectiveness of service action. For example, for the year 2017, in the Château-Rouge sector, there are nearly 3200 simplified minutes drawn up, 46 tons of goods destroyed and 5,900 pieces of counterfeit seized. In the flea market sector, Porte Montmartre, close to 2400 simplified minutes were drawn up, more than 120 tons of goods were destroyed and 5200 counterfeit pieces were seized. This action is similar to the tailor-made police that we wish to promote and generalize within the framework of the daily security police. I know how much you care about this project. These recurring facts are difficult to combat, but, yes, we will continue our action in these neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u149	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u150	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the clarity of your answer. I do believe that these field initiatives prefigure what the security police of tomorrow's daily life should be: good coordination of all actors and specific adaptation of means. Our security forces really need long-term support. The results are beginning to emerge. The number of saviours has fallen from a few thousand to a few hundred, but we need support, especially in order to sustain the numbers that have been displaced in order to create this brigade of about fifteen police officers: these numbers will have to be re-established elsewhere. Your support is essential if we are to succeed in combating this difficulty in our neighbourhoods on a sustainable basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u151	The next speaker is Mr Thomas Rudigoz, to put his question, No 155, on security in the Grand Trou district of Lyon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u152	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, as you know, as we all know, security is one of the main concerns of our citizens. Thanks to a number of measures put in place by the Government and the presidential majority, including the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, the climate of confidence is gradually returning to our country and this is a positive point to stress. However, while this overall sense of security is growing, there are still areas, neighbourhoods where a climate of insecurity of varying degrees of insecurity is still unfortunately a reality. In the first constituency of the Rhône, of which I am elected, this is particularly the case of the areas of Moulin-à-Vent and Grand Trou, in the 8th arrondissement of Lyon. In recent years, the Vienna road, the centre of these contiguous neighbourhoods, has been the scene of incivilities, vandalism, urban rodeos and break-in robberies, against the backdrop of drug trafficking. Residents and traders suffer from this insecurity: they are put to death by threats, burglaries and the deterioration of their commercial buildings and premises. The turnover of the shops suffers and, unfortunately, many doorsteps do not find themselves taking over, or only for ephemeral businesses, with sometimes dubious activities. Despite the particular attention paid by the elected representatives of the town hall of the 8th arrondissement and of the city of Lyon, in close consultation, I would like to stress this, with the municipal and national polices, it must be noted that the public tranquillity struggles to be restored in these neighborhoods. Regrettably, people feel too often deprived in such situations. However, security is one of the Government's priorities; The presentation of the daily security police by the Minister of the Interior at the beginning of February is the best proof of this. Thus, among the thirty "reconquest republican" districts presented by Mr. Gérard Collomb is the 8th arrondissement of Lyon, which gives rise to great hope among local elected officials, traders, associations and residents. In this context, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to clarify how the increase in the resources allocated to the national police in the 8th arrondissement, as well as the role of this new daily security police in the areas of Moulin-à-Vent and Grand Trou, will translate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u153	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u154	As you said, security is a priority of this government, because we know that it is the first freedom and that, when the law of the Republic is not applied, it is the law of the strongest. That is why, as the President of the Republic committed himself to it during the presidential campaign, the Minister of the Interior launched, on 8 February, the security police of the daily that you mentioned. This reform is not just another reform: it is a change of philosophy for the security forces, which everywhere will give the police and gendarmes new means of action. However, the Government wished to make a special effort to help some neighbourhoods, which still suffer from particularly severe incivilities, delinquency and trafficking. In these so-called republican reconquest neighbourhoods, the Republic must be able to regain its rights. The 8th arrondissement of Lyon, which has been selected from among the latter, will benefit from the reinforcement of fifteen to thirty additional staff in the coming months, in order to combat the phenomena of insecurity that you have just described. The forces will be primarily equipped with new generation equipment – cars, pedestrian cameras, tablets and Neo smartphones. As you know, safety is also increasingly being ensured in co-production. That is why, honourable Member, we count on you and all the elected representatives of these territories to participate, together with the Prefect and local police officials, in the development of an effective strategy to combat crime. Indeed, the strategy conducted in one area of Lyon will not be the same as in another. I have no doubt that you will be on the rendezvous, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u155	I have the same problem in my constituency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u156	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u157	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the elements you have brought. You can actually count on us. We will draw on the experience we have gained in Lyon, thanks to the community work that has been carried out jointly by the municipal police and the national police for several years. I myself was mayor of another district of Lyon, which faced other difficulties. Partnership work is indeed essential between the police, the security commissioner and local elected officials in order to carry out this fight against crime.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u158	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to raise her question, No. 128, concerning the situation of migrants and the crime of solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u159	My question is to the Minister of the Interior. The migration crisis has led to the criminalization of refugees and migrants. According to IOM – International Organization for Migration – over the past four years, more than 15,000 human beings have died, turning the Mediterranean Sea into a tomb; and how many will die in 2018? Instead of reaching out to them, we are putting in place an increasingly distrustful policy towards them. But these people have not committed any crime: they are vulnerable, they flee repression, war or misery. They wait for their fate to be judged with humanity, to finally build a life. Yet, between loneliness, indifference and humiliation, their daily lives remain extremely difficult. Some of them suffer the injustice of the Dublin procedure, while others are returned to areas of conflict, such as Afghanistan. In addition to the threat of expulsion, most are under house arrest; the others are in administrative detention, as if they had committed a crime. This criminalization also concerns those who help them. However, the offence of solidarity, although it does not exist legally, is based on the free interpretation by the judges of CESEDA – the code of entry and residence of foreigners and the right of asylum – a text originally intended to combat trafficking in human beings but which, in reality, can apply to all of us. I refer to article L. 622-1 of this Code, which provides that any person directly or indirectly assisting the entry, movement and stay of aliens in an irregular situation shall be punished by a maximum of five years' imprisonment and a fine of 30000 euros. Does the Government intend to put an end to the crime of solidarity and to the criminalization of refugees and migrants, including by putting in place alternatives to an absurd and inhumane system of quasi-automatic detention? On the other hand, is he considering establishing a moratorium on returns to Afghanistan, as long as they cannot be carried out in safety and dignity?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u161	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u162	Madam Member, I am of course falsely registering against the accusations that you make. This government has never committed itself to what you call the "criminalization" of migrants. Never. What we are seeking to implement today is a simple, common sense measure: to welcome in good conditions those who flee war and persecution, whether on political, religious or ethnic grounds. As you know, honourable Member, this means that the right to asylum must be promptly investigated, because nothing is worse than to see people sometimes wait more than a year in an in-between legal order, sometimes in very difficult material conditions, before obtaining refugee status. It is to remedy this situation – which your group like this government cannot accept – that tomorrow, in Council of Ministers, the bill "asylum and immigration" will be introduced. Contrary to what I was able to read, this is a very balanced text, which aims, as I said, to speed up the right of asylum, to remove foreigners in an irregular situation – because the laws of the Republic must apply to all – and to better integrate foreigners who are destined to remain in our country for a long time, because it is the honour of France, and its tradition, to receive them properly. In this regard, you know that yesterday, a report was submitted to the Prime Minister, of which I am sure you share the majority of the conclusions. As of tomorrow, you will be aware of the mechanisms that will be proposed, and I imagine that we will then be able to discuss this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u163	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u164	Thank you for your answer, while regretting that the Minister of the Interior is not present. Placing people in detention, i.e. depriving them of their liberty, is the fate of people who have committed crimes: it is therefore a way of criminalizing them! And all the more so when we put the people who helped them in jail. But we will indeed be able to debate these issues when we look at the upcoming bill: I hope we can agree on the important points.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u165	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor to put her question, No. 150, concerning the classification of Thionville as a tense area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u166	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, my question, which is addressed to the Minister of Territorial Cohesion, relates to the housing market in the agglomeration of Thionville. Thionville is a border commune in an agglomeration of 80000 inhabitants and a basin of more than 200000 inhabitants. Its demographic expansion is linked in particular to developments in the labour market in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. To respond, its real estate market is one of the most active in the Grand East region, with a dynamic private property promotion, leading to exit prices of 3000 to 3400 euros per square metre and a median price of the land to be built above 100,000 euros. Four thousand new housing units are planned, including 2100 on the only ban in the commune of Thionville, for the next five years. The derogation under the so-called "Pinel" scheme for that territory expired on 31 December 2017. If it were not renewed, the risk would be great of a significant decrease in new, individual or collective construction. The reduction of the activity of real estate production also has a consequence on social production, for the part carried out in VEFA – sale in the future state of completion – between promoters and donors, important measure within the framework set by the ANRU – National Agency for Urban Renewal. The Government is committed to prioritizing support for new construction in zones A and B1 to limit market imbalances. This is quite the situation in the agglomeration of Thionville, which is facing a major challenge: to stabilise market data in order to avoid the flight of the current inhabitants to the benefit of other people, with a higher income, working in Luxembourg. It is therefore necessary to control part of the accession, with affordable rates and intermediate rent levels for the most attractive typologies, in addition to the ongoing operations on the renovation of the old park. The classification of Thionville as a B1 zone, or any equivalent arrangement, would make it possible to have the full support for new construction, but also the new arrangements under consideration in Bill Élan – housing change and digital development – aimed at energizing development operations to produce more buildable land. In this sense, this approach is consistent with the ranking of other border areas, mainly with Switzerland, which have the same market characteristics as Thionville. Therefore, I would like to know whether, in view of the cross-border situation and the stakes in the territory of the People's Republic of China, the classification in the so-called B1 tense zone or an equivalent arrangement is envisaged, as requested by local actors, but also by the housing professionals and social donors, whose activity is affected by it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u167	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u168	Madam Member, you are requesting the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion on the A/B/C zoning applicable to certain housing assistance schemes, in particular concerning the communes of the agglomeration of Thionville. In particular, you want the zoning to go from B2 to B1. The aim of zoning A/B/C is to establish a geographical classification of municipalities in the national territory based on the imbalance between the supply of and demand for housing, in order to concentrate State aid in the most tense areas. Thus, the last revision of this zoning in 2014 was carried out according to a harmonised methodology and criteria for the whole territory. Adaptation proposals, resulting from local consultations conducted by regional prefects, were also analysed. As zoning A/B/C has been established using a national methodology and approach, it is not possible to make changes on a case-by-case basis: this would be a departure from the principle of equitable treatment of territories and of a nature that would lead to litigation. On the other hand, if, in an effort to improve efficiency and optimize public spending, the Government has wanted to focus on areas A and B1 of the Pinel scheme in favour of intermediate rental investment, you will notice that the Finance Act for 2018 provides that the zero-rate loan – PTZ – in the old one, conditioned by work, is instead targeted on areas B2 and C, to promote the revitalization of cities-centres through the rehabilitation of their housing. The Government had also introduced transitional measures in the draft law. The PTZ in the nine is retained, with a 20% quota in zones B2 and C for 2018 and 2019, and the Pinel scheme is extended in the approved municipalities of zones B2 and C for housing acquisitions made before 31 December 2018, if the building permit was deposited before 31 December 2019. However, we are well aware that these mechanisms, defined at the national level, may prove ill-suited to local policies. That is why we want to examine the possible arrangements for the territorial delegation of aid for accession and rental investment, in order to bring these national arrangements closer to territorial needs. This study will focus in particular on the border sectors, which you mentioned, located in the vicinity of economic hubs generating localized tensions on rents and housing prices due to the recent and significant influx of new households of cross-border workers. For example, in the context of the Alzette-Belval national interest operation, cross-border attractiveness has resulted in an increase in the population of almost 1% per year over the period 2009-2014, and an average rent per square metre of €10.80 in 2015, an increase of 30% since 2012. So we really need to pay particular attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u169	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u170	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answers. I was already aware of certain measures, but I am pleased to note that the Government will carry out this study on border areas. Indeed, as you have pointed out, the population in these areas is increasing. For Thionville, by 2030, projections predict an increase of 50,000 inhabitants, or 235 households per year. It is therefore imperative that the arrangements for the rental market and the construction market be reviewed. We find ourselves in an area of tension, in which middle-income households find it very difficult to live in.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u171	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor to raise her question, No. 144, on the importance of community-based public services in the peripheries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u172	This question is addressed to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, the abolition of local public services, particularly in the periphery of towns and cities, in popular neighbourhoods, is an additional burden on the daily lives of the most vulnerable citizens. This is the case of the post office of the Aydes, which is located in a district common to two communes of the Orléan metropolis in the Loiret. This post office, after a final stay granted by the territorial management, is condemned to disappear in the coming weeks. This disappearance will have a direct impact on the least self-sustaining inhabitants, and postal services are complementary to many businesses that participate in the vitality of a neighbourhood. The President of the Republic recalled, in his speech of 14 November at Tourcoing, the importance of "reviving what Simone Weil called the effectiveness of citizens' rights in neighbourhoods, when there is no longer access to a public library, when there is no post office in his neighbourhood, when the school is no longer on the rendezvous, the Republic cannot be demanding with the children of the neighbourhoods that live there". According to a November 2017 FIFG survey, almost 70% of French respondents say they are committed to community-based public services, and as much are opposed to their transfer to the private sector. The construction of a more inclusive society, which the Government and the majority call for, will require a reinvented concept of public service to the closest to the citizens. This transformation will take time in the territories – time to accompany the farthest citizens of the technologies towards these new practices, time to experiment and then extend the new services to the users, so that the cities become real smart cities, real smart cities. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell us what can be undertaken to accompany and facilitate the daily life of the most fragile, especially in the peripheries, as in the Aydes district of the Orléanian metropolis, and to live up to the promise of the Republic, that of equal access, for all, to the public service?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u173	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u174	Madam Member, you have drawn the attention of Jacques Mézard, Minister for Territorial Cohesion, to the closure of the Aydes post office and more broadly to the abolition of public services on the outskirts of towns and cities. The digital dematerialization of many administrative procedures and mail has led to a decline in physical use and the provision of public services. However, these places are still necessary, you are right to emphasize, to accompany users in what cannot be done online and to accompany fragile audiences, who are increasingly so. The accessibility of services to the public throughout the territory therefore remains a very high expectation of the population, but also a priority and a major challenge for the Government. The challenge is therefore to adapt and pool existing public services, while maintaining physical access points close to citizens throughout the country. This challenge is at the heart of the concerns of the Department of Territorial Cohesion, which intends to rely on public service homes – MSAP – to improve the accessibility of these services for all our citizens. Today, 1200 MSAPs are deployed in France. Covered by communities, associations or simply by the La Poste group, these shared areas of service to the public offer both physical reception with a trained agent and access to digital services. These houses are real common front offices, which offer access to the main steps of a long list of operators: La Poste, Pôle emploi, l'assurance maladie, les allocations familiales, GRDF... We are convinced that this logic is a forward-looking one, as it addresses the triple imperative of community-based public services, digital inclusion and reduced attendance costs. Today, only 50 MSAPs are located in a part of the city's politics, which is too little. The Ministry of Territorial Cohesion undertakes an evaluation mission aimed at proposing ways to sustain the financing of the State of these operators and of the partners of the scheme, in order to prepare a complementary deployment, including in dense territories. The district of the Aydes you mention is one of the densest in the Orlean metropolis: it is therefore particularly targeted by the establishment of an MSAP close to its inhabitants. In the immediate future, we encourage you to head towards the Loiret's departmental plan to improve accessibility to the public, which sets out a strategy to strengthen the supply of services rendered, in order to obtain a solution to the needs of users, affected by the closure of the Aydes post office. We share these concerns with you, and the Government is fully committed to improving the access of all our citizens to essential services throughout the country, in rural and very rural areas, but also in dense areas, in areas where public services are scarce. We must therefore work hard on all these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u175	Mr Michel Zumkeller, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 157, concerning the role of 600,000 nurses in the organisation of vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u176	My question is to the Minister of Solidarity and Health and concerns the role of liberal nurses in our health policy, mainly in the field of immunization. Since 2008, nurses have been vaccinating frail people against influenza without prior medical prescription, with the exception of primary vaccination. This public health measure allows 1 million people to be vaccinated each year. At the time of the passage of the legislation, it was anticipated that nurses would be able to re-invigorate the entire population. Unfortunately, the 2008 decree introduced a twofold restriction: on the one hand by limiting this measure to influenza, while the skills required are the same for all vaccinations, and on the other hand by limiting it to persons over sixty-five years of age and to chronic patients. Entourage is therefore excluded from this vaccination policy. Since then, nurses have been a little forgotten of the various reforms that have enabled other actors in the health sector to intervene in this area. So we find ourselves in a very paradoxical situation, in which nurses, graduates, can vaccinate the most fragile, but not those in good health. Beyond the recognized competence of these professionals, our nurses provide coverage throughout the country, in a period of complaints about medical deserts. In addition, the cost of taking over, which ranges from €4.50 to €6.30, should be stressed. At a time when your Government rightly questions our health care system in general and the care path, I would like to know the Minister's intentions to allow nurses to act on immunization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u177	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u178	Mr President, as you have pointed out, vaccination is a simple and effective preventive measure that helps to prevent serious infectious diseases leading to serious complications and deaths for oneself and others. According to the World Health Organization, vaccination prevents between 2 and 3 million deaths each year in the world, for diseases of diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis and measles alone. As a major actor in prevention and care, nurses can of course, on medical prescription, vaccinate the general population for all vaccines. Since 2008, they can also vaccinate without medical prescription, with the exception of, you have recalled, primary-vaccinated and pregnant women; On the other hand, they can vaccinate people targeted for influenza vaccination, i.e. people over sixty-five years of age and patients with chronic conditions, such as diabetes, obesity or cardiopulmonary conditions. This opportunity for nurses has a positive impact: nurses' share of seasonal influenza vaccinations has been increasing for several years, reaching 23% in 2016. In view of these encouraging results, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Minister wish to reflect on the expansion of nursing's immunization skills, in order to simplify and improve the vaccination journey for more people – I am referring here to the vaccination of first-time influenza vaccinees or to the reminders of early childhood vaccines. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has just sent to the Technical Committee on Immunizations of the High Health Authority a referral concerning the extension of the competence of nurses and pharmacists in vaccination. The professional orders will of course be consulted, with the aim of reaching quick proposals, which seem to be common sense proposals for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u179	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u180	It seems to me a good augury, even though we know that time can pass between referral to a committee and decision-making. However, this is a very good idea, especially in the context of the comments of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Solidarity and Health on reforms and the end of unnecessary acts. It is important to allow everyone to find their place, primarily Liberal nurses. That's very good news the nurses will appreciate. They will be associated with this evolution, which will result in a very interesting result for the health of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u181	Mr Patrick Hetzel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 132, concerning the conditions for obtaining ASPA for non-contributory foreigners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u182	I would like to ask the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, about the conditions for obtaining the solidarity allowance for the elderly – ASPA – which is also still called "minimum old age". This is a conditional monthly benefit for French and foreigners over sixty-five years of age with low resources. Our compatriots today find it very difficult to understand why nationals of foreign nationality, for example persons with refugee status, who have never previously contributed to social security funds in France, also benefit from ASPA. They are well aware that this minimum age allows people who have not contributed enough to benefit from national solidarity. However, the fact that this solidarity works for foreign people as the nation's accounts demand more and more sacrifices from all our fellow citizens is also seen as a real injustice. I have already addressed this issue in this House on 17 January during questions about the Government's policy on migrants, but unfortunately the Minister of State, the Minister of the Interior, has not provided me with a satisfactory answer, which is why I am asking the question again. I would like to see the figures of the beneficiaries of the ASPA of foreign nationality who have never contributed in France. Moreover, since the French pension system is based on a contributory logic, i.e. that each pensioner receives a pension proportional to the contributions paid during his career, it would be appropriate to abolish the allocation of the ASPA to foreign persons who have never contributed in France and, possibly, to re-evaluate with due competition the allocation allocated to French nationals, as well as to foreign nationals who have contributed in France. My question is very specific, and finally, I would like to know the figures on the beneficiaries of the ASPA of foreign nationality and their evolution in recent years. These data seem to be a very well-kept secret, since I cannot obtain this information from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u183	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u184	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u185	Mr President, you are asking me about the conditions for granting the solidarity allowance to elderly persons of foreign nationality residing in France. ASPA is a non-contributory benefit paid from age 65 or from the statutory retirement age for certain individuals such as those unfit for work or veterans. It is paid only at the request of the persons concerned and subject to resources. The monthly ceiling of resources to benefit from the ASPA, as well as its maximum monthly amount, currently amounts to 803,20 euros per month for a single person and 1_246,97 euros for a couple. As ASPA is intended for the most needy, consideration shall be given not only to the real resources of the persons concerned, but also to all the benefits of disability and old age enjoyed by them, and to the professional and other income, including that of real and movable property and property donated by them. In order to reduce the poverty situation of the elderly, and in line with the presidential commitment, a significant upgrading of the ASPA will be implemented. Its amount will be gradually adjusted by decree, reaching a maximum of 903 euros per month in 2020, which is 100 euros more per month than today. Aliens residing in France must first meet the same conditions as those applicable to any ASPA application: minimum age and resources below a certain limit. In addition to these conditions, foreigners must reside regularly in France. In order to fulfil this requirement of regular residence, the alien must either be a national of a Member State of the European Economic Area or Switzerland, or have been in possession for at least 10 years of a residence permit allowing him to work, or be a refugee, stateless person, benefit from subsidiary protection or have fought for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u186	How many are there?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u187	It therefore implies a close link with the French territory, since a non-Community national must have stayed in France for at least ten years in order to be entitled to it, with a residence permit allowing him to work. If previous residence permits have not been retained, the applicant must justify contributions for retirement during these 10 years. Finally, ASPA does not benefit massively from foreigners coming to France to take advantage of the system, as your question implies. Only one figure: out of about 580,000 beneficiaries of the ASPA and the minimum old age, 3% are foreigners who have not or have not worked in France. They are, for the most part, widows whose pension of reversion, modest, is supplemented by the ASPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u188	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u189	Madam Secretary of State, I note that you are making a small semantic shift: I wanted to focus more specifically on refugees, since you know very well that the ten-year period is not applicable to them. You say that 3% of ASPA beneficiaries are foreign nationals, but I still can't get the details. What interests me is the evolution of numbers over time. I still have no answers to these questions, which is very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u190	Mr Frédéric Reiss, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 135, concerning maternity in Wissembourg and cross-border cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u191	Madam Secretary of State, let me begin by expressing regret: among the four priorities of the national health strategy are the issues of old age and dependency. However, this is a real social problem that the Government has to take up with it, as evidenced every day by the growing concerns in the institutions for the care of dependent elderly – EHPAD. My question concerns the maintenance and development of maternity in Wissembourg within the framework of Franco-German cooperation. Among the objectives highlighted on the occasion of the fifty-fifth anniversary of the Elysée Treaty is the desire to allow experiments in Eurodistricts, particularly in the field of health. The Eurodistrict PAMINA offers concrete advances, such as an ASSP training – accompaniment, care and services to the person – in alternation or the installation of a cross-border health home, with challenges of medical demography. The recent Trisan study funded by the Upper Rhine Conference showed the value of further cooperation in the gynaecological field, particularly following the closure of Kandel's maternity in the Palatinate. Like the mobile emergency and resuscitation service – SMUR – which allows for the undifferentiated care of French and German patients, the maternity service in Wissembourg could, tomorrow, represent an offer of comprehensive community service, provided that administrative procedures for care are facilitated. Article 168 of the Lisbon Treaty encourages health cooperation in cross-border regions and provides for the possibility of mobilizing Interreg funds, as confirmed by the European Commission in a communication of 20 September. Local elected representatives want to maintain the maternity ward in Wissembourg, where 304 births took place in 2017. Madam Secretary of State, can we count on the support of the Government to sustain this level 1 maternity which will be able to accommodate parturients from Alsace or the nearby Palatinate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u193	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u194	Mr President, you are asking the Minister of Solidarity and Health about the maintenance of the maternity of the intercommunal hospital of La Lauter – CHIL – Wissembourg. I would like to recall that CHIL is a community-based facility, whose attachment to the hospital is expected to lead to the development of a joint medical-care project at the end of the first half of 2018. With globally committed and recognized medical and health-care teams on the health basin served, this facility has a territorial anchor and undeniable advantages in terms of image, both with the population and with local political actors. However, the CHIL in Wissembourg is exposed to three major challenges, which must now be anticipated, with ambition and pragmatism: a narrow base of activity; a financial situation to be consolidated; a strong dependence on demographic changes. You are addressing the issue of the development of Franco-German collaborations in the field of health: a study commissioned by the Euro-Institut and the results of which were presented on 15 November 2017 shows that there has not been a massive postponement of the German parturientes towards the Wissenburg maternity. The European texts have, of course, made progress, but the situation remains unsatisfactory, with high risks of leftovers for the patient. Until the issue of financial support is resolved, it will not be possible to develop patient mobility, except for frontier workers. To return to maternity and the possibility of transforming its activities through the creation of a perinatal community centre, the reflection will be carried out between the institution, the staff and the regional health agency, within the framework of the regional health plan No. 2. It is important to prepare this project by considering the activities currently carried out, which can be postponed in the context of the missions of a perinatal centre of proximity, but also by reflecting on other activities to be developed. As you can see, honourable Member, the maternity ward in Wissembourg receives special attention from both the Ministry and the Greater East Regional Health Agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u195	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u196	Thank you for this comprehensive answer on the future of Wissembourg's maternity. I have discussed with the Director of the Regional Health Agency, who has proposed progress in this direction. You say that there are no massive postponements today. Of course, only a few parturients come from Germany to give birth at the maternity ward in Wissembourg, but we would like to improve the care, so that the latter is not a major obstacle. This would ensure the development of this motherhood. That was the meaning of my question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u197	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor to put his question, No 147, on sport and health.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u198	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. It focuses on the development of innovative projects aimed at integrating physical activity into the health path, as is the case in my constituency, with the project "Pyrénées-sport-sanitary". While this type of project is part of a favourable public policy framework, no call for projects has yet been launched in this area. Sport is now defined as a public health tool by the Act of 26 January 2016 on the modernization of the health system. In addition, one of the actions of the Cancer Plan is to raise awareness among elected officials of the health benefits of physical activity by encouraging them to take initiatives to increase the physical activity of their population. The overall objective of the project envisaged in the Hautes-Pyrénées is: to propose to people with chronic or high risk pathology, primarily in long-term affection – ALD – to experiment and evaluate an adapted and personalized programme of rehabilitation and prevention through sports activities. The project aims to build on a permanent medical check-up and high-level medical supervision – agreements with universities and medical structures in the region such as Toulouse's Oncopole are sought. It will endeavour to conclude agreements with health insurance and health supplements to facilitate the care of the sick. I would therefore like to know, Madam Secretary of State, the Government's ambitions on this subject, including the extent to which this type of initiative could be supported by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u199	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u200	Mr President, physical and sporting activity can no longer only be seen from the perspective of leisure or competition, but must also be seen as one of the key elements of the constitution or restoration of a "health capital" for all French people. In the National Health Strategy, the Minister of Solidarity and Health reaffirmed her priority of strengthening prevention and, as such, promoting healthy behaviours in the area of nutrition and physical exercise. In order to improve the prescription and dispensation of adequate physical activity, the High Health Authority will, as early as the first quarter of 2018, make recommendations for physicians who prescribe physical activity to patients with chronic diseases. The measure concerning the prescription of adapted physical activity was also proposed as part of the preparation of the Paris bid for the 2024 Olympic Games. The aim is to develop an offer of physical activity accessible to all and to implement the prescription of physical activity for patients with long-term conditions. A gradual increase of the device was envisaged, with a target of at least 5% of the number of patients with long-term conditions in the first year, followed by a target of 15% after three years. At the same time, and within a broader framework, the Sports Directorate wants to propose a national strategy for sport and health, with a view to reshaping the national plan for sport, health and well-being. This recast may include measures to increase the practice of physical activity of the general population, but also of specific audiences – elderly people, people with chronic diseases, LDAs or people suffering from particular diseases. In the context of the mobility bill, we will extend the prescription of physical activity to persons outside of ALD. Through this action, we wish to highlight the public health effects of regular walking and cycling. The involvement of all actors in the world of health and sport is necessary to improve the efficiency of the proposed measures and to increase the number of physical activity practitioners in France. I would add that all territorial initiatives in this area are very interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u201	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 141, concerning the network of CARSATs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u202	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the future of the network of pension and occupational health insurance funds – CARSAT – in our territories. Indeed, on the regional territory of Hauts-de-France, it is the receptions of Armentières, Seclin, Tourcoing, Cambrai, Maubeuge, Boulogne-sur-Mer, Dunkerque, Saint-Omer, Arras, Abbeville, Péronne, Beauvais and Laon that are concerned, which gives rise to concerns which I wish to relay. This decision is the result, among other things, of the continued decline in the operating budget confirmed by the Social Security Financing Act, as well as of the organizational constraints imposed by the State in the negotiations on objective and management contracts. In 2014, the closure of five retirement offices had already been decided, while the flow of files to be dealt with was, in the region, among the most important in France, due to the long career arrangements introduced by François Hollande. Many files, and thus beneficiaries, have remained overdue for too long. At the time, together with other Members of Parliament, I had made a strong effort to demand the maintenance of all the retirement branches, but also the reopening of many retirement reception points – PAR. All these successive reorganisations undermine access to insured persons' rights, at a time when the rate of non-recourse continues to rise. More broadly, it is a certain conception of public services that is under attack, where, in structurally fragile territories, as is the case in my department, they are nevertheless essential to accompany the weakest. While I can hear that technological advances, via access to the Internet, are prompting us to rethink certain ways of accessing services, new technologies can only be complementary. Indeed, how can one imagine that they can replace a human service, in territories where digital coverage is sometimes lacking? Ultimately, your management of this file reflects our difference in conception of what the social security service should be on a daily basis. I would like you to inform me of any measures you intend to take to mitigate the disastrous effects of these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u203	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u204	Mr President, CARSAT is based on a network of seven main agencies, eighteen secondary agencies and thirty retirement reception points. For all sensitive situations and for insured persons in situations of fragility, appointments are privileged. In addition, the CARSAT Nord-Picardie is experimenting with the "careful journeys": to strengthen its proximity offer, the fund mobilizes staff to support the insured in their digital approaches. These new offers complement the range of services offered to insured persons: self-service spaces, virtual agencies, website, retirement and sickness business centres. The fund promotes these services, and the high level of use of online retirement demand is one of the examples of the growing interest of insured persons in these new communication channels. It should also be noted that CARSAT has been involved in the deployment of service houses to the public. In addition, an experiment must be carried out with a vehicle equipped as a retired mobile reception, in order to bring the fund closer to the isolated and vulnerable populations. A cartographic analysis will be carried out, together with the Observatory of Fragility, hosted by the caisse. The National Old Age Insurance Fund – CNAV – wants to strengthen the territorial coherence of its reception network, in connection with the establishment of agencies, PARs and service houses for the public. The aim is to work on the relevance of the settlements in the territory, so that each insured person has, less than 30 minutes from his or her home, a reception point where he or she can be received by appointment. In parallel with the development of CNAV's online service offerings, CNAV is committed to a proactive approach to its users, reinforcing the logic of "client journey", especially for fragile audiences and people with complex files, to the benefit of access to care. This will be a strong orientation, which will be included in the contract between the State and the CNAV for the period beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u205	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u206	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. A itinerant bus travels through the countryside, in my constituency, to welcome insured persons. We also see the development of service houses for the public. Unfortunately, we find that many operators do not play the game and do not provide permanence. But your answer at least reassures us of your good intentions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u207	I call Mr Sebastien Chenu to speak on his question No 160 on working conditions at the public hospital in Denain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u208	[[Smile]] Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, I begin by thanking my colleagues Jean-Bernard Sempastous and Jean-Louis Bricout for their presence on this last question: so we do not stay in person! My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. On December 16, a nurse from Denain Hospital in my constituency tried to put an end to her life by injecting herself with a product that would lead to death. Just saved by her colleagues, she fortunately survived. Unfortunately, on 16 January, a young man in full force of age, also a nurse at the Denain hospital, was less fortunate: he was found hanged at his home, and it was not possible to bring him back to life. The profession of nurse in a public hospital is a demanding and complicated one. Working conditions are difficult and can sometimes undermine the psychological health of hospital staff. These working conditions are deteriorating, and it is possible that this is one of the causes, among others, of these tragic events. The Committee on Health, Safety and Working Conditions – CHSCT – pointed to the explosion in the activity of the hospital in Denain: the annual number of admissions has increased from 27,000 to 30,000 in three years, an increase of 10%, without any increase in resources. Hospital workers regularly exceed their normal working hours, which leads to job exhaustion, which we have mentioned recently in this House, and thus to an increase in sick leave, without the absence of staff being replaced. Beyond overtime, there is also a concern of another order: insecurity has passed the door of the public hospital. All too often, the staff are confronted with it, and new violence is detrimental to the functioning of this public service, which is so important and necessary in our department as elsewhere. Some might be tempted to consider these to be local issues, limited to the Denaisis or the North, but that is not the case. You are aware that this situation is only a reflection of the more global situation of the public hospital in our country – it should also be mentioned the pharmacists. We must seriously ask ourselves, as parliamentarians, the link that might exist between the working conditions I mentioned and the psychological discomfort of hospital staff. We cannot avoid this reflection. In this context, we need to reflect on the impact of the 2009 HPST law – Hospital, patients, health, territories – voted primarily for financial considerations. If the public hospital service is to be modernised, which we are all prepared to believe, financial obsession cannot be the purpose of a public policy. Madam Secretary of State, for this young man from Denaisis, as well as for all the staff of public hospitals to whom we owe so much, will you have the courage to objectively analyse the results of the HPST law so that we can together draw all the consequences and address the reform of the public hospital by placing its agents at the centre of our action, even though their crucial role was not mentioned by the Minister of Health when she presented her first ideas?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u209	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u210	Mr President, you are right, there are not many of us... You address the issue of the quality of life at work and the ill-being of certain professionals, a condition that has led one of them, despite the support of the coaching team, to wait for his days. This incident led the establishment to conduct a systemic analysis of the facts. An action plan will be forwarded to the Regional Health Agency – ARS. We can already note the introduction of video surveillance to improve the security in the service and the additional presence of an officer at night to ensure the 24-hour administrative reception. You also mention the lack of resources. Please be aware that the management of the hospital in Denain is extremely careful to maintain the contracts of professionals, particularly in the psychiatry and pneumonology services as well as in the emergency services, and to take over the overtime of the agents who would assist on a voluntary basis. Many of the difficulties associated with work overload, stress and violence in the emergency department are known to the institutions and they are committed to exploring avenues for improvement. Mr President, the minister does not disapprove of the difficulties faced by hospital professionals. Having been there for twenty-five years, Ms. Buzyn is extremely attentive to the quality of life at work at the hospital, a subject for which she is strongly involved. The Government has confidence in the hospital and all its actors to support the necessary reforms. We know their daily commitment to patients. Along with the Prime Minister, Buzyn has launched a three-month period of reflection and consultation on five major structural projects to improve investment in prevention, access to care in certain territories and the overall functioning of our health system. As you can see, honourable Member, we are present alongside health professionals and patients. In order to improve the provision of care, as well as the working conditions of staff, our health care system needs to be considered in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u211	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u212	I have no doubt about the existence of local improvement paths: I myself have met twice with the director of the hospital in Denain. But I will tell you, like Pierre Reverdy, that there is no love, there is only evidence of love! However, in the reform announced by the minister, I do not see them: no additional resources, no particular consideration for the staff, whose place is central, no emergency reform among the tracks presented... In short, we are attentive, but seriously concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u213	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1145.u214	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and public vote on the draft law on the election of representatives to the European Parliament; Debate on the information report of the Committee on Economic Affairs on digital coverage of the territory. The meeting is adjourned.
