ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u1	Pursuant to Article L.O. 185 of the Electoral Code, the President received from the Constitutional Council communication of a decision cancelling the legislative election of 11 and 18 June 2017 in the first electoral district of Mayotte, following which Mrs Ramlati Ali had been proclaimed elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u2	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u3	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor to put his question, No. 90, concerning the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u4	Minister of Sport, from January 27 to February 3, all students, from kindergarten to high school, will be able to participate in Olympic and Paralympic Week. This operation should encourage the practice of sport and make it live in its diversity as an educational tool. Fair play, equality, health education and inclusion of students with disabilities, the values of sport and Olympism will be in the spotlight. This very beautiful initiative is aimed at the school public. But physical and sports education is also very important outside the school context, for children as well as for all ages of life. With more than 3 million members, present in all territories with their 21,000 associations, the affinitarian and multi-sport federations are today an essential link in the development of sport adapted for all audiences. From leisure to competition, from pleasure to well-being, from education to social inclusion, from solidarity to citizenship, they cooperate with local authorities and neighbourhood associations to welcome all people closer to their needs in diversity, regardless of their expectations, in a dynamic and responsible associative framework. Minister, beyond the upcoming Olympic Week, how do you intend to involve civil society's affinitarian and multi-sport federations in this major event represented by the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024? How do you intend to make these Games Games of all territories, serving as a lever for a significant increase in the sport practice of French and French people?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u5	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u6	Mr President, these Games are an exceptional opportunity for federations, for our clubs and for French sport in general. In the application phase, athletes and the sports movement were placed at the heart of the project and this is probably what made the difference with previous applications. This must continue in the organizational phase: I am counting on it and I will be the guarantor of it. It is no coincidence, moreover, that the sports movement is a majority on the board of directors of the Olympic Games Organizing Committee, which was officially established four days ago. Public service delegated sports federations, whether Olympic or Paralympic, multi-sport or affinity, are key to our French sport model. Indeed, they constitute a stage of proximity, that of the sport of everyday life, which contributes to valuing among all the educational, social and citizen dimension of sport practice. As you mentioned, the Olympic and Paralympic Week will be held next week, thanks to the mobilization of the Ministry of National Education but also of the Uniport Federations, the UNSS – National School Sport Union – the USEP – Sports Union of First Level Education – and the UGSEL – General Sports Union of Free Education – which fosters sport with passion in schools. More broadly, the involvement of the unisport, multisport and affinity federations will be decisive on the side of the state and local authorities for the next six years, to mobilize French and French people around this extraordinary project through numerous events that will put our entire country on the move; to promote this great event, to make it a celebration, to give the desire to invest in this adventure and, who knows, perhaps, to be part of this "Generation 2024". If the State and the sports movement have been involved in this bid and will be fully mobilized to prepare for this great event, it is because we believe in its ability to promote the practice of physical and sporting activity for more French people, to make the values and virtues of sport the essential elements of our living together. It is in this spirit that we designed the CNDS Heritage Plan 2024 – National Centre for Sport Development – for 2018, in order to accompany the momentum generated by the organisation of the Games and to encourage the transformation of sports organisations. To support social innovation through sport, which is provided by sports associations, the CNDS has €20 million for this purpose. Finally, sport, and in particular the development of its practice, is part of the momentum initiated by the President of the Republic. This will involve the mobilization of civil society and the community, which are first-rate relays, by bringing our sports policy to the closest of our fellow citizens on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u7	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor to put her question, No. 71, on the extension and restructuring of the Toulon courthouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u8	I would like to associate my colleague Jean-Louis Masson here with this question. Minister of Justice, planners, investors and even historians are unanimous: the entry of a city is a strategic and emblematic place of the quality of the urban spaces of a territory. However, when you arrive in Toulon from Marseille, you enter the city with on one side the high and austere walls of the arsenal, and on the other side a plot of 6000 square meters gridded where wild herbs grow. This land, which enjoys an exceptional location, has been a wasteland since the demolition of Saint-Roch prison in 2010. Since then, this land has not been valued by the one and only project ever envisaged by all: the extension and restructuring of the Toulon courthouse. Indeed, in 2009, the city of Toulon, the metropolis Toulon Provence Méditerranée, known as TPM, and the Ministry of Justice signed a convention on the demolition of the Saint-Roch arrest house stating that, at the end of the demolition, the perimeter would remain closed until work on the extension and restructuring of the courthouse began. It was in this unique perspective that TPM agreed to give free of charge the land that allowed the new prison in La Farlede to be built and to finance half the cost of the demolition of the old prison. Against all the commitments made, the project of the new courthouse of Toulon has not been included in the investment program of the three-year plan 2011-2013 of your ministry. Worse, in 2016, the city of Toulon received a notification from SOVAPAR for alienation of the parcel. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is imperative that judicial activity can also take place in Toulon under decent conditions. That is why, Madam Minister, I would like to know the timetable envisaged by your department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u9	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u10	Madam Member, you are asking me about the future of the site of the former Saint-Roch prison in Toulon and about the question of the expansion of the courthouse. I know that with your colleague Jean-Louis Masson, you are extremely attentive to this. The real estate operation that you are referring to and that has been planned could not be carried out due to budgetary constraints. As a result, the land was transferred to the State-owned land and real estate valuation company, SOVAFIM, for sale. However, the need to extend the courthouse was defended by all the heads of the courts and supported by the services of my ministry. That is why the Chancellery asked SOVAFIM, in 2017, to suspend its operations in order to allow the Ministry to take over the parcel of land. I am fully aware of the real estate difficulties, in particular the distribution on four sites of the Toulon courts. I am also aware of the need to expand the courthouse. I asked for a clear reflection to be revived on how to optimize this grip. As soon as the results of this reflection are known, I will be able to take decisions on the follow-up to the needs of justice in the Toulouse region. I fully share your willingness to take action on this issue; I know that she is also animating all the elected representatives of the territory. As you pointed out, there have been a lot of twists in this case, and now it has to be completed. I will be particularly vigilant and promise you a solution under the Justice Programming Act in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u11	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart spoke of her question, No. 74, concerning the opposition to the construction of a prison on the right bank of the Var.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u12	Madam Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice, I would like, first of all, to pay tribute to prison staff, whose working conditions are difficult, and to say that I understand their dissatisfaction with the lack of recognition, numbers and resources. Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to know your position on the project to create a new prison centre on the communes of La Gaude and Saint-Laurent-du-Var. The Territory's elected representatives and citizens are opposed to this project. Their letters, motions, petitions and questions, including the written question I tabled on October 10, 2017, as well as the appointment requested by the MP for the second riding, Loïc Dombreval, are still waiting for your answer. This project calls into question the investment and commitment of elected officials who are pursuing a policy of spatial planning in the heart of the Eco-Vallée, in this preserved space, oriented towards sustainable development and the green economy. Two prisons currently exist in the department: Nice and Grasse. The initial project to renovate the centre of Nice and the extension of the centre of Grasse was planned to the satisfaction of the local elected representatives concerned, whether it was the mayor of Grasse, Jérôme Viaud, or the mayor of Nice, Christian Estrosi. In addition, the cities of Nice and Grasse each have a court, unlike Gaude and Saint-Laurent-du-Var. This creates problems of transfer, both in terms of costs and security. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to reaffirm our hostility to this project. Can you finally give us some answers?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u13	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u14	Madam Member, the land on the right bank of the Var, on the site of La Baronne, in the communes of Saint-Laurent-du-Var and La Gaude, is to date the only land proposal made for the construction of a new prison in the agglomeration of Nice. This new facility is essential in a context of very high overcrowding in prisons. The need, in the Alpes-Maritimes department, is estimated at 1210 places by 2026, while the current Nice prison, which is more than 173% occupied, is already overcrowded. It is therefore two establishments, as well as a neighbourhood of preparation for exit, that it is necessary to build in the department. Studies are currently being conducted by the services of the Department of Justice to assess the feasibility of an operation on the Nice site, taking fully into account the elements which the municipal councils of Saint-Laurent-du-Var and Vence have debated and which you reaffirm today in front of me. The same work is under way on the proposals submitted for the construction of a second establishment in the agglomeration of Fréjus. The Ministry is very attentive to the arguments put forward against the choice of a site on the grounds of La Baronne, but it will nevertheless be necessary to take into account the urgent need for the rapid selection of a site for the establishment of prisons in the metropolis of Nice. Again, the decisions will be finally taken for the 2018 programming law and the prison plan announced by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u15	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that you will come to participate in a consultation with all the local elected representatives to exchange with them: they will explain the value of preserving this site and may make other proposals to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u17	I'm in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u18	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor to raise her question, No. 79, concerning the centres of material and moral interests of ultramarine civil servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u19	My question concerns the consideration by the Ministry of the Interior of the centers of material and moral interests – CIMM – as the legal priority of assignment for the transfers of ultramarine officials. In order to facilitate the return of ultramarine civil servants to their communities of origin, article 85 of the Act on Real Equality Overseas, adopted unanimously in both the National Assembly and the Senate, adds to the statutory priorities a priority to civil servants who justify CIMM in one of the communities governed by articles 73 and 74 of the Constitution. This measure was confirmed by the March 1, 2017 circular on the ICES criterion. Your colleague Minister of National Education, Jean-Michel Blanquer, recognizing situations "more painful for the ultramarine than for the inhabitants of the hexagon", guaranteed on 17 January that the CIMMs were taken into account by the national education concerning the mutations and even promised future improvements and closer management of the terrain for a current system that was too blind. Today, however, we are regularly alerted to problems in the implementation of these various measures by the Ministry of the Interior, and more particularly for national police officers. The department has not yet made the expected mark-up. There is therefore an urgent need for the technical committee to meet on this matter. Indeed, because of the retirements and the construction of the Saint-André police station on Réunion Island, many posts will be filled. The situation of many families is painful. Some Reunions I met have been working in the hexagon for ten, fifteen, seventeen years and still cannot return despite an exemplary file and despite open posts. Some couples have been living at a distance for too long years. Some do not live with their father, their mother because of these absurd rules. A civil servant with a soothing family life will be more successful in the performance of the public service. It is therefore in the service's interest that ultramarine public servants be able to return to their home communities. There is an urgent need for the Ministry of the Interior to take full account of ICMs in its mobility policy. I would like your views on this, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u20	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u21	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u22	Madam Member, the Ministry of the Interior has taken fully into account in the management of the mobility of its staff the provisions of Article 85 of the Act Real Equality Overseas of 28 February 2017 which you yourself had worn. Thus, the mobility circulars of the second half of 2017 invite the services to pay particular attention to the location of the centre of the moral and material interests of the agents who submit requests for transfer for the ultramarine territories. The mobility of administrative and technical staff is governed not by a point system but by a qualitative review of the files, which takes into account both the suitability of the profile and the position but also the personal situation of each officer. Where individual situations are brought to our knowledge or mobility is requested on the basis of one of the priorities set out in the current regulations, of which ICES is a full member, the request of the officers shall be granted as such. However, it should be pointed out that certain destinations are the subject of a number of applications which far exceed the number of posts opened at each Joint Administrative Committee – CAP – and that each application is therefore examined with the utmost attention with the trade union partners. In the case of staff of the management and enforcement corps of the National Police, it would be necessary to reserve, as in the case of the reconciliation of spouses, a number of posts open in an ultramarine department or territory to officials justifying a CIMM, on the basis of objective criteria previously defined. Other posts would be allocated to staff members without CIMM in the department or territory concerned. The way in which this new system is implemented will naturally need to be discussed with trade union organisations and will require important IT developments taking into account the concept of CIMM. Nevertheless, these provisions will be put in place as of the 2019 movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u23	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We will be very attentive to requests for deployments for the 2019 commissions, but I think we are ready for this year's commissions. IMMCs are known due to travel by officials of the ultramarine territories. I think that this definition is known, I think that practice is known, and I think that these requests for ultramarine officials must be met. Thank you for paying particular attention to this issue for the next committee to be held in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u25	I call Mr Girardin to speak on his question No 85 concerning the construction of a new police station in Épernay.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u26	The Minister to the Minister of the Interior, the Public Security riding of Épernay, in the Marne, has 78 police officers, covers 30,000 inhabitants and deals with 3,500 files per year. The champagne capital also hosts hundreds of thousands of tourists. The police station is very old, set up in a 19th century house. This building is inadequate and accumulates important problems: offices under the roof making working conditions impossible during heat, reception of the public in small premises, auditions in rooms that do not respect confidentiality... Above all, from the point of view of safety, the configuration of spaces does not allow to have a real armory. The weapons are stored in a secure wardrobe of a small congested room, close to the entrance of the police station and the public. Additional rooms have been transformed into storage places where use is mixed: maintenance of weapons and various equipment. The police cells installed on the ground floor are more than 30 metres from the guards, resulting in totally inadequate surveillance of persons. The renovation of the police station has a cost close to that of the reconstruction: 6.1 million euros, compared to 6.4 million for the construction of a new, more functional equipment. This cost could be reduced, on the one hand, by the resale of the land on which the present police station is located, in a sought after area, near the avenue de Champagne, land of interest in particular to the Moët &am p; Chandon, for an estimated cost of at least 900000 euros, and on the other hand by the free provision of land by the city of Epernay, whose mayor, Mr. Franck Leroy, proposed a freehold of more than 4000 square meters in a site very accessible in the heart of the public security constituency. The prefect of the Marne also indicated that our police station was at the top of the files in this area. Your firm has acknowledged that the file is exemplary – but it is already more than ten years old! A major three-year plan for the renovation of the 2018-2020 police stations is planned and its budget is on the rise. Minister, can you confirm the construction of a new police station in Épernay? Is it part of this 2018-2020 programming?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u27	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u28	Mr President, it is the duty of the Minister of the Interior to pay the utmost attention to the working conditions of the police and to guarantee them the means to carry out their indispensable tasks in the most efficient and safe way. The State must offer police stations to meet the requirements of a modern and respectful public service. This concern is also, as you witness today, that of local elected officials throughout our territory. On 18 October, the President of the Republic set the principles and objectives of the security policy for the internal security forces, which is based in particular on increased resources, but also on new methods of action aimed at greater efficiency. For example, the overall budget of the National Police is increasing by 1.9 per cent this year, an increase of €138 million. The investment and operating appropriations, which are so essential for the daily lives of police officers, will thus be on the increase. To answer your question, the envelope devoted to real estate, thus benefiting the working conditions of the police officers, also increases in 2018, by 5%, to reach 196 million euros. In particular, these appropriations will make it possible to launch a major plan for the renovation of the police stations, not only this year but throughout the quinquennium, which the Minister of State will shortly detail in the territories concerned. You'll allow me to leave the ads to him! Added to this is the deconcentration of €45 million towards territorial administration to put the means closer to needs. This will enable local service managers to carry out improvement work where necessary. There is no point in denying that many police stations, such as the one in Epernay, are still in a poor or even worse state. If emergency rehabilitation and renovation, if necessary, are carried out regularly, as you mentioned, they do not constitute a lasting solution. That is why we have decided to act in the long term with solid planning and means to transform this situation, which, in a context of necessary budgetary effort, should not be minimized and demonstrates one thing: the Government intends to act for its police officers and for the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u29	Mr Eric Girardin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u30	Thank you, minister, and I hope that the Epernay case will be a positive one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u31	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde to put forward his question, No. 95, concerning the staff of the anti-criminality brigade in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u32	Minister to the Minister of the Interior, I would like to ask you about the difficulties faced, particularly in Seine-Saint-Denis but not only by the staff of the Anti-Criminality Brigade – LAC. It appears that the number of enabling tests performed to be able to work in LAC does not adequately reinforce the workforce, or even simply maintain it. In the only district on which my constituency depends, three of LAC's five teams are now devoid of resources, so much so that they can no longer provide a daily presence. This is why the police hierarchy clearly envisages in our department to pool the staff of several neighbouring police stations to form a district LAC on this time frame. In plain terms, we do with the means of the edge and, where three were lacking, we will share out of five and there will be fewer personnel to ensure safety. De facto, the presence of LAC on the highway is reduced. Even more serious to me is the risk of failing to achieve the objectives set out in the LACs, since there will be little synergy between officials who do not know each other and do not work in the same police station, and above all because of the lack of awareness of the population: an anti-criminality brigade that does not know the population loses its effectiveness, which increases the danger of the intervention and the risks of slipping, as well as the material and human resources problems inherent in the police function. Therefore I deeply regret this decision of the departmental hierarchy. One wonders what the city police are for if one is forced to undress Peter in order to try to dress Paul – and very badly. This illustrates the renunciation of a minimum police presence to some of the most disadvantaged populations in the Seine-Saint-Denis. I wonder whether, given the number of candidates, it would be appropriate to organize more selection tests for the LAC in order to address these staffing issues. Would it not be better, Madam Minister, to find other solutions that allow each police station in Seine-Saint-Denis, France's most criminogenic department, to have at least one LAC with the necessary staff and not, in addition to the significant crime that it is experiencing, to suffer the quasi-disappearance of the main anti-criminality force made available by the police services?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u33	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u34	Mr Lagarde, first of all, in view of the problems of delinquency faced by the Seine-Saint-Denis department, it is indeed essential to ensure a sufficient number of police officers there. Thus, in 2017, the number of staff assigned to the Seine-Saint-Denis Local Security Territorial Directorate increased from 3299 at the end of 2016 to 3390 at the end of 2017. With regard specifically to anti-criminality brigades, the nature of the tasks assigned to them requires a dedicated authorization. The needs for LAC empowerment tests are now shared across the Paris agglomeration – Paris and the small crown – and centralized within the training sub-directorate. At the same time, the centralization and harmonization of authorizations at the national level provides greater flexibility for LACs since the authority to serve within a LAC is valid for the entire territory. In practice, the practice within a LAC requires specific qualifications from the officers assigned to it and the selection of candidates would be equally rigorous on a larger number of exams. In addition, LAC officials are subject to obligations to strengthen their professional skills. These constraints apply throughout the country and are absolutely necessary in view of the diversity and sensitivity of the missions carried out by these units. I would add that the LACs were integrated in 2016 into the national counter-terrorism intervention scheme, as intermediate intervention units, which sets them out in particular. Finally, the mutualisation of certain LACs within the Paris agglomeration does not in any way constitute a renunciation of the State, but rather attests to the desire to ensure an increased deployment of patrols on the public road, through the search for synergies. The reflections launched on this occasion are part of the ongoing work and are carried out in close consultation with local elected representatives, and I hope with you, Mr President, on the implementation of the daily security police, which is aimed precisely at providing staff with a better understanding of their environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u35	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u36	Thank you, Minister. If oral questions without debate, to speak clearly, are to be used for something, perhaps it is to bring information back to the Ministry of the Interior when your administrations do little. In this case, the answer that has been prepared for you is the opposite of what the Territorial Security Directorate has explained to us. Where we had five full-staffed LACs, three of them are missing now. Two complete LACs and three incomplete LACs are working. This mutualization actually leads to the disappearance of the police presence on the public highway. I take the example of the city that I know well and of which I have long been mayor: while a LAC was circulating there every night, it is no longer possible since it has to travel to Noisy-le-Sec, Bondy and other areas of the district, cities that officials do not know, of which they do not know citizens or delinquency. Their effectiveness is diminished, and I believe it is urgent to remedy this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u37	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor to put his question, No. 68, on the atoll of Moruroa and the consequences of nuclear tests.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u38	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, on 2 July 1966 Aldébaran exploded, the first French nuclear test in Polynesia; 192 other tests spread over 30 years will follow in Fangataufa but, above all, Moruroa until 1996. After 42 years of state lie about the famous "clean tests", common sense finally led in 2010 to the creation of the Committee for the Compensation of Victims of Nuclear Tests. Its budget must be put in perspective because, on the one hand, it is also used to compensate victims of the Sahara and, on the other hand, it does not cover damage to the environment. Of the 275,000 Polynesians, 9705 are now suffering from one of the diseases that the French state admits as radiation-induced. In addition, there are 919 persons suffering from other diseases known to be radio-induced by the other nuclear powers. A few years after Aldébaran, the state granted Polynesia the status of autonomy and competence in the field of health – a poisoned gift since it resulted in the coverage of radio-induced diseases by the social and health system of the community and no longer by the state. Irony of fate or planned cynicism? Here, until today, it is the victims themselves who pay. But let's go back to common sense... Some preliminary reminders are necessary: 147 underground tests were carried out from 1975 to 1996, 62 were carried out under the lagoon but 78 were carried out under the fragile coral crown of the Moruroa atoll. Fifteen kilos of plutonium and a large amount of radioactive waste remain buried in the heart of Morurua and remain dangerous for 500,000 years. As early as 1979, a block of several million cubic metres emerged from the coral cliff. In 1980, 1987 and 1995, several reports revealed cracks over kilometres and the existence of risks of radioactivity leakage. In 2006, the book published by the Ministry of Defence, The Radiological Dimension of French Nuclear Tests in Polynesia, attests that at least 41 out of 147 underground tests produced radioactive leaks, i.e. one in three trials. Finally, in 2011, the nuclear safety delegate himself cited a possible slide of 670 million cubic metres, causing a wave of twenty metres high. Common sense has therefore led to the implementation since 2015 of the project TELSITE 2 to update the geomechanical monitoring facilities of Morurua, operational for twenty years. Sismometers, geophones, GPS beacons, lifebase... TELSITE 2 should be able to predict the collapse of Moruroa with 90 seconds ahead! Perhaps I will be told today that all this is conjecture and that, as it was said at the time of the clean trials, there is nothing to say or to think that Moruroa could one day collapse. Fukushima was not supposed to happen either... But then why create such a device? Yes, why invest more than 100 million euros in a thermometer if you're sure the disease will never happen? This is the question that arises when we see that there is no state plan to save the inhabitants of Tureia, the closest atoll to Moruroa. This is the question that arises after COP 23 and its marine protected or managed areas, when it is known that no regular survey presents the state of the coral crown and the radioactivity it contains, which will be released into the Pacific Ocean at the time of the collapse. The Polynesians, the Pacific nations are entitled to wait for an investigation on this subject, which will reveal the real environmental and health impact of the Moruroa collapse, but above all the measures of anticipation, beyond the mere prediction at 90 seconds. In a recently popular box office cartoon, a farcer god steals the heart of a Pacific island, Te Fiti, leading to a disaster in neighbouring islands that spreads without limits. In 1977, with the first underground nuclear test, the state stole the heart of the two atolls of Moruroa and Fangataufa. In the cartoon, Maui brings back Te Fiti's heart and disaster is avoided. In the post-world - One planet summit, will the French state know if not bring back at least the heart of Moruroa and Fangataufa before it is too late? Mäuruuru e Te Aroha l'a rahi.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u39	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Brotherson, since the cessation of the tests in January 1996, France has carried out and continues to carry out concrete actions to ensure the protection of the population of French Polynesia through geomechanical and radiological monitoring of the testing sites in the Pacific. This is one of the priority tasks of the Ministry of Armed Forces. First of all, with regard to geomechanical aspects, France decided, in 1980, to set up the TELSITE monitoring system, as you pointed out. Supported by the conclusions of the 1998 report of the International Geomechanics Commission (IGC) this system allows continuous monitoring of changes in the structure of the atoll and makes it possible to disseminate a possible warning to the populations with sufficient notice. It should be noted that there has been a marked slowdown in the geomechanical movement of the atoll since the end of the tests. However, France decided to continue this monitoring by modernising its system, you also recalled, for an amount of EUR 100 million, thus going beyond the recommendations of the IGC, which called for its judgment in 2018. Nevertheless, the risk of a partial or greater collapse in Moruroa is unlikely to be ruled out, and France has taken concrete steps to deal with this possibility, particularly in terms of infrastructure and organisation in the event of a major risk. Finally, the International Atomic Energy Agency believes that the radiological consequences of a hypothetical and pessimistic scenario of collapse of a part of the atoll would be extremely limited. It is also worth recalling the continuous radiological monitoring of the atolls throughout the year through an annual campaign of terrestrial, lagoon and ocean sampling. The analyses are carried out by an CEA-DAM laboratory – the CEA's Directorate of Military Applications – accredited by the French Accreditation Committee and attest to the stability or even decrease in radioactivity, which shows that there is currently no radioactive release into the environment. These results are available in full transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u41	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to put her question, No 66, on the pollution of the Fort de Vaujours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u42	My question was initially addressed to the Prime Minister. Occupied by the Office of the Atomic Energy Commissioner – CEA – between 1955 and 1997, fort de Vaujours was the scene of numerous experiments, including uranium fire in the open air and in casemates. These trials are now classified as "defence secrecy". In 2010, the State sold 30 hectares of fort de Vaujours to Saint-Gobain, through its subsidiary BP Placo, to exploit the soil and extract the gypsum reserve, which is essential for its industrial production. The transformation into a gypsum quarry involves the destruction of buildings and the displacement of dozens of hectares of land. However, neither a genuine clean-up of the site nor the transparency that its management implies are ensured. Evidence, if necessary: radioactive waste was discovered there this summer. In addition, the inhabitants of Courtry, close to the fort, are still being questioned about a huge proportion of deaths due to cancerous tumours: 52 per cent for men, compared with 35 per cent on average in Île-de-France, and 49 per cent for women, compared with 28 per cent. Today I join many citizens, the collective "Sauvons la Dhuis" as well as several local elected representatives who call for the immediate cessation of the exploitation of the soil by Placoplatre society and officially call for the lifting of the defence secret concerning the trials held there. Since 2005, France has included in the environmental code the polluter pays principle according to which the costs resulting from measures to prevent, reduce and combat pollution must be borne by the polluter. How was the French Republic, which in 2004 constitutionalized the right of everyone to live in a balanced and healthy environment, able to sell to a lucrative actor a polluted site whose commercial interest is to exploit as quickly as possible the gypsum present underground and whose job is not to clean up the site of diffuse radioactivity? Why is it that we find ourselves today in a situation where associations, elected representatives and citizens must mobilize to obtain a clean-up and answers on the experiences achieved? Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, will you be able to live up to the situation and assume the responsibility of the State? Are you committed to making all the light on these trials, to stop the work of Saint-Gobain and to pay for the actual remediation of the site? You are not responsible for past actions, but you have the power to bring about the conditions of truth and to ensure a healthy environment and decent living conditions for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u43	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u44	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u45	Madam Member, as soon as its use was completed, the State carried out precise actions with the local and independent authorities to ensure the remediation of the fort of Vaujours, operated by the CEA from 1955 to 1997. They were made within the framework of the principles of transparency and precaution. Thus, an interdepartmental monitoring commission was set up in January 2001, chaired by the Prefects of the Seine-Saint-Denis and Seine-et-Marne, in order to assess the progress of the operations, to examine the data and, where appropriate, to recommend additional measures. All measurements have shown that there is no risk of chemical, radiological or pyrotechnic toxicity. Remediation of the site was carried out for soils and structures according to the objectives set by the Directorate-General for Health. As a precautionary principle, public utility easements were introduced in September 2005 by the prefectural authorities to prevent residual pyrotechnic and radiological risks in the event of earth-moving work. The discovery of certain objects in 2017 was treated in this context. I would point out that these materials had an extremely low level of pollution. I also indicate that the regional health agency – ARS – of Île-de-France conducted a study in 2012 whose findings on cancer rates in the vicinity of the site were, according to the agency itself, distorted. This led the SRA to state that the figures that circulated in the media and the Internet "have come out of context and are being misinterpreted" and that they "do not take into account the age structure of the compared populations". As with international agencies, RSA recalls that thyroid cancer, in particular, cannot develop during uranium exposure. Finally, the work currently carried out by Saint-Gobain Placoplatre is carried out in strict liaison with the Nuclear Safety Authority – ASN – and the Institute of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety in order to guarantee the radiological safety of workers and the absence of environmental and health impact for the population. The discovery of the objects in 2017 led to a stop to this work pending the conclusions of the ASN on this subject. Finally, the declassification of the archives would not provide any additional information on the subject, but would pose risks to the disclosure of potentially harmful information under nuclear proliferation, which is also a topical issue, as you know.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u46	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u47	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State, but it is not satisfactory for several reasons. First, the site monitoring commission did not invite the CRIIRAD – Commission for Independent Research and Information on Radioactivity – or the collective "Sauvons la Dhuis", composed of citizens and elected representatives, to participate in its work. Secondly, CRIIRAD showed in 2011 that the radioactivity rate was at some sites at thirty-three times the tolerable threshold, which is a real problem. Finally, the prefects of Seine-Saint-Denis and Seine-et-Marne indicated that Placoplatre had failed to comply with a request made by the State on 4 October 2016, to which they had six months to reply. So there is still a problem of respect for law and transparency about what really happened and what steps should be taken to obtain the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u48	Mr David Lorion has the floor to put his question, No. 72, on the development of the University Institute of Technology – IUT – of La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u49	I would like to ask the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation about the problems relating to university degrees in technology – DUT – particularly in La Réunion, which seems particularly timely since students are present this morning in the stands. DUTs and professional licenses are particularly well adapted to the needs and fabric of La Réunion's economic activity. Indeed, our companies increasingly have a regional vision in the context of a decarbonised economy. They operate in various sectors such as import substitution, sustainable development, energy and tourism. We need special technical skills, which can be acquired within the IUTs. For a population of 850,000, in Réunion there are only five university degrees in technology, offering only 320 places in the first year, and six professional licenses in alternation. We know that the Minister of Higher Education – she said during the review of the reform aimed at replacing the Post-Bac Admission procedure with the Parcoursup platform – wants to offer the most suitable university training offer possible at the request of students. In Réunion, DUT offers account for only 3.5% of training offers, compared with 7.3% in a comparable region in metropolitan France. The supply of training in IUT is therefore twice as low as in metropolitan France. Why couldn't the students of Réunion benefit from higher technical training in the same proportions? This situation upsets the choices of our students. The local UTI is undersized to receive the large number of bachelors who wish to study there – 2500 students make a wish for the UTI each year. It is the holders of a technological baccalaureate who suffer the most from this under-dimension: they find themselves in general fields which are not adapted to their wishes. Gandhi said, "Real education is about getting the best out of yourself." Yet it is necessary to be able to do so in an appropriate setting, with teachings and teachers. Education is the only real wealth of the poor. More than 40 per cent of families live below the poverty line in the department. What does the minister think she is doing to accompany the opening of the new DUTs in La Réunion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u51	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u52	Mr President, first of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Mrs Frédérique Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, who is currently travelling abroad for the opening of the year of innovation in Singapore. However, I would like to say that she is very sensitive to your question, and asked me to give you the following answer. By order of 12 December 2017, the Minister decided to respond favourably to the request made by the University of La Réunion to open a department "Techniques de commercialisation" within the IUT of Saint-Pierre. This project to diversify the training offer of the IUT meets the expectations expressed both by high school students and by the players in the economic life of Réunion: the establishment of a short and professional sector in the commercial and service sectors. This new department will bring the Réunion training offer closer to the initial vocation of the IUT: to welcome, train and accompany the technological and professional bachelors towards success. This positioning ensured the support of the university community and the support of local professional circles to this opening project, which was taken into account by the Ministry when investigating the file requesting the opening of the training. To answer your question about the means to accompany this opening, four posts will be assigned to this department within the IUT, two through mutualization from next start and two from the start of 2019. In addition, a BIATSS officer – these agents who meet the administrative, financial, technical and social needs of higher education – will be assigned to this new department as soon as it is opened. Finally, the IUT will draw on local professionals and economic actors to participate in the educational animation of this training. With regard to the question of professional and technological bachelors, the approximation of the IUT and the BTS courses – a higher technician's certificate – to their original vocation, namely to train students from these baccalaureates, is one of the priorities of the draft law on the guidance and success of students, which was discussed by the National Assembly on 12, 13 and 14 December. This bill will allow the academic authority to determine a minimum percentage of places reserved for these bachelors. In addition, overall reception capacity will be revised upwards, with 22000 places open in all voltage sectors throughout the country. Finally, for students who wish to do so, several professional licenses will be open in the medium term to holders of the DUT "Commercialization Techniques". Please be aware that Ms. Frédérique Vidal attaches particular importance to these crucial subjects for the training of our young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u53	I call Mrs Stéphanie Rist to speak on her question, No 83, on access to care in the Centre-Val de Loire region.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u54	Access to care is an increasingly shared concern in France – we have had the opportunity to mention it recently in this Assembly. Although landlocked rural areas suffer particularly from the shortage of doctors, they are no longer the only ones concerned: cities and metropolises are now affected; territories that were still largely spared there face increasing difficulties. Some territories are particularly vulnerable. Thus, the situation in the Centre-Val de Loire region is worrying. Electors and citizens see this every day: access to care remains one of the main concerns on the ground. Beyond the feelings of the inhabitants, the figures are telling: this region has the lowest medical density in France, with less than 235 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to a national average of more than 280. In addition to the considerable public health stake this poses, this situation weighs on the attractiveness of the territory. More than 20 measures have been proposed by the Minister of Solidarity and Health to improve the situation. They are necessary and will make it possible to modernise and improve access to care. However, the medical density, i.e. the number of doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, is 18% lower in France than in Germany and the euro area countries. The question therefore arises as to the overall number of doctors in France. It depends on the number of students accepted in the second year, the famous numerus clausus, but also on the number of European students whose diploma is recognized in France and the number of foreign doctors who can practise in France under certain conditions. In order to improve the medical density in the region Centre-Val de Loire, do you think it possible to increase the number of places for graduate students, i.e. the number of interns assigned to our territory? On the other hand, since yesterday and before March 13th, high school students must express their wishes on the new platform "Parcoursup". As the health research sector has been in tension in recent years, will you open up more places in the common first year of health studies – PACES?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u55	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u56	Mrs Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, who is currently travelling abroad. The issues that you address, particularly access to care, are important. Your region faces significant challenges in terms of medical demography. The medical density of all types of exercise is 330 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, compared with 421 nationally. There are also very strong sub-regional inequalities: if the Indre-et-Loire is better equipped, with 471 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, the Loiret has only 309, the Loir-et-Cher, 304, the Cher, 281, the Eure-et-Loir, 264 and the Indre, 253. Several factors make it possible to link place of training and place of work: pool of employment for spouses, general attractiveness of the territory, transport, family ties, among others. There is no simple and obvious solution to address these critical national issues for our citizens. However, several mechanisms are in place to answer your questions about the end of the CAPES and the number of interns. The numberrus clausus of the University of Tours is 255 places for medicine and 420 for the total of the four medical fields; it increased by 20 places between 2015 and 2016. The University of Tours has also opened admission through the "AlterPACES" channel to students enrolled in a bachelor's degree at the University of Orléans, who do not have equivalent training. This admission route opens the way for medical studies to a wider audience without forcing them to repeat the CAPES. Finally, several initiatives are taken by the University of Tours, in conjunction with the Rectorate, to foster vocations among high school students in the departments of Indre and Cher; This is the Ambition PACES program. As far as boarding is concerned, there is clearly a deficit in the allocation of the interns to the subdivision of Tours, which is one of the only ones where the number of students is less than the numerus clausus that applied to it five years ago – it is a real difficulty. The increase in the number of interns is therefore a legitimate demand, especially of elected officials. A movement in this direction could be initiated and other arrangements could be put in place, but this must be the subject of upstream consultation with local elected representatives. The Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation is ready to work with you and the Territory's elected representatives. Improving access to care for our citizens is a real challenge, especially in your region. We are all committed to this, in particular the Minister of Health and the Minister of Higher Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u57	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u58	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u59	Mr Alexis Corbière, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised his question, No 67, on the question of the preservation of net neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u60	Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, I am very flattered that you answered my question yourself, in this particular exercise. I would like to draw your attention to the issue of preserving the principle of net neutrality in France. On December 16, 2017, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission abrogated net neutrality in the United States. U.S. Internet service providers, private commercial companies, can now introduce bandwidth access priorities according to customer pricing formulas or even the source of content. This evolution runs counter to the spirit in which the internet was created: net neutrality enables the network to be regulated as a public good, in which everyone can produce content freely and free of charge. It raises concerns about the commercialization of cyberspace: access that has become discriminatory between different content, depending on its market value. Commercial actors able to pay for their access to the network to internet operators would be privileged against non-commercial actors, users: blogs, anodized videos, websites of professionals would then become difficult to access. At the end of 2015, Regulation No 2015/2120 of the European Parliament and Council, extended by the publication by the body of European electronic communications regulators of the guidelines on the implementation by national authorities of rules on net neutrality, reaffirmed this fundamental principle. Nevertheless, the evolution of the Internet landscape – the Internet of Things, the preponderance of social media platforms... – suggests that it is being challenged, under pressure from the telecom industry. Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, I would therefore ask you to clarify your position on net neutrality. I would also like you to refer to the Government's political vision in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u61	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Corbière, thank you for this question on this major subject which unfortunately went unnoticed in the European and French debate. You are asking me for the Government's position on net neutrality. You will see, in my answer, that once again we share the same opinion. As you pointed out, the United States has put this neutrality in jeopardy. They went far. Supported by their president, the economic community, the various actors, they decided to put an end to net neutrality, to which the US regulator wanted to make many exceptions by justifying them in various ways. These American actions will not have immediate consequences for French and European companies, and we will be very vigilant in this area, but the Government as a whole shares your concern. Net neutrality, in simple terms, guarantees everyone the ability to access the sites they want, with equal speed, regardless of the price they have paid for their subscription. In the United States, in the coming months, depending on the price they will have paid, Internet users will not all have the same access... In my opinion, an Internet that would not give access to all the sites is not the Internet: it is a CD-ROM, a CD-ROM connected – in short, the past! We built the internet together. It is not an idealistic concept, but a real project, an economic project, a human project, where we share ideas, where we free our minds because we are able to search for information, wherever it is. It is a project through which one can rise intellectually, in that it allows access to all this information. Today, in France, the Internet is the place for the liberation of many minorities, many people, who finally find the place of the most absolute expression. It is also a place of economic emergence in that it allows start-ups to be born, because if their offer is the best, it is they who will be chosen rather than older companies. A closed internet, on the contrary, favours monopolies, constriction. It is essential that the Government today do pedagogy by explaining why this rule of neutrality is so important. We did so at European level, with Jean-Yves Le Drian, by presenting France's international digital strategy last month. Net neutrality is at the heart of our digital diplomatic strategy. We defend it and we, together with the European regulator and the French telecoms regulator, are committed to regularly reminding us of its importance for the democratic issue. We are often opposed to the argument of innovation. But the neutrality of the net encourages innovation! It will allow you to innovate in connected objects, 5G, connected cars... The current rules allow for these developments. France is clearly in favour of neutrality today. It is not alone: the majority idea is that of neutrality. And in France, for good reason, the subject makes consensus: no one defends the end of neutrality. Be aware that the Government is your partner in this area. We know, for our part, we can count on you. Together, we can tell the world that we want the net to remain neutral, because it is better for society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u63	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u64	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the clarity of your answer. France must now make its voice heard to the United States, to make them understand that we do not agree with the measures they have taken. I will remain vigilant, but I am pleased to see, at least in your reply, the Government's willingness to refuse the commodification of this particular and indispensable space of the net.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u65	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor to put his question, No. 69, on the new national programme for urban renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u66	My question is for the Minister for Territorial Cohesion. The programming law of 21 February 2014 entrusted the National Agency for Urban Renewal – ANRU – with the implementation of the new national urban renewal programme – NPNRU. A single city contract has been put in place to address the challenges of social cohesion, urban renewal, economic development and to mobilise public policies on education, employment, justice, security, transport and health. €5 billion was included in the law, which was intended to raise €15 billion in investment, the main objective being to improve the living conditions of the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods. In my riding, the cities of Martigues and Port-de-Bouc record the largest share of the RSA's beneficiary households in the region. As many as 47 per cent of the population receive CIF benefits, and as many as 61 per cent in the city of Port-de-Bouc. One in two households earns incomes below the low-income threshold and 13 per cent of households are considered fragile. These municipalities have five priority neighbourhoods, i.e. nearly 12,000 inhabitants, three of whom are affected by the NPNRU, representing nearly 5,000 inhabitants. In 2015, they signed the city contract and the pre-figuration protocol. In 2016, 399 conventions were signed at national level, 27 of which concern the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region and 17 the Bouches-du-Rhône region. Since then, the continuation of the NPNRU has come up against the austerity measures announced in the summer of 2017. It seems that the brake is tight and that things are not moving much, if not at all. The budgets of the municipalities, social donors and privileged partners of the process are severely affected. The municipalities have, moreover, fired the alarm bell. The decline in personalized housing subsidies announced this summer will have a negative impact on the policies of HLM organizations. A Bouches-du-Rhône organization specified some time ago that it would lose 10% of its revenues and could vote an imbalanced budget within two years. In order to survive, he will have to either reduce his payroll, which he refuses for the moment, or withdraw from all the arrangements, including those provided for by the ALUR Act and the NPNRU. To this is added the decision of the regional council of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, which, as part of its budget for 2018, makes a dark cut in the budget devoted to housing, increasing it from 29,5 to 16 million euros. The weakening of municipalities, local authorities and social donors has led to the high risk of urban renewal projects, which are so much needed by the inhabitants. For many years, the mayors of these communes have been acting on the external spaces of the priority neighbourhoods and putting in place public policies, which you know. This situation is unbearable, because it is unfair. Yet it prevails in many parts of our country. They are territories that suffer and fall out of the Republic. These fractures are not worthy of a society of the twenty-first century. It is unbearable above all for those who live in these neighbourhoods and are relegated. Living with dignity is a right to which all inhabitants must have access, regardless of their place of life and economic situation. The State must guarantee that. Mr Secretary of State, what do you intend to do to ensure that the NPNRU will be carried out to its end, especially with regard to the two cities I mentioned, Martigues and Port-de-Bouc? What do you intend to do to ensure that the State's commitments are respected?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u67	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u68	Mr President, you have asked Mr Jacques Mézard this question, who cannot be present and asked me to answer you. Your very precise question concerns such a precise area: I will therefore be very precise and ask you to forgive me for reading the elements that have been gathered by our services to bring you the best of the answers. In the thirteenth riding of Bouches-du-Rhône, the action of the ANRU, through the new national programme of urban renewal, focuses on the territory of the country of Martigues, which comprises three entities: Martigues and Port-de-Bouc, of which you have spoken, and Saint-Mitre-les-Remparts. Three districts of this territory have been selected to be the subject of an urban renewal programme: Aigues Douces - La Léque, in Port-de-Bouc, held in a district of national interest; The Counts, in Port-de-Bouc, held in a district of regional interest; Finally, the Mas de Pouane, in Martigues, also held in a district of regional interest. No district in the electoral district had been treated under the first urban renewal programme 2004-2020. Thus, the deployment of the new national urban renewal programme will be structured into two phases: first, a project design phase, within the framework of a pre-figuration protocol; Secondly, a phase of project implementation, within the operational framework of a multiannual urban renewal agreement. The pre-figuration protocol was signed for these three neighbourhoods on 25 November 2016. This first phase of the program already allows the deployment and financing of a curriculum, two local engineering positions, an investment operation – the creation of the House of the Port-de-Bouc project – and an early start authorization. The first exchanges already make it possible to identify several axes of work on the district of Aigues Douces in Port-de-Bouc. In particular, it is a matter of amplifying the vocation of this district located as an extension of the city center by offering possibilities of residential routes for households – you have recalled the local social stakes – and by constituting a site of family tourist attraction and proximity by the reconquest of the coast. With regard to La Lèque, breakthroughs of the bar are already envisaged, in order to allow a circulation between the seafront and the market place. An action of resorption of the unworthy habitat will be carried out on the unsanitary islets between the Lèque and the market place. In terms of community habitat, the entire park will be rehabilitated. Crossings to open the coastal area and the development of collective areas on the coast are planned and will be put in place. Moreover, it can be pointed out that Port-de-Bouc is the only one of these three projects to be accompanied by the ANRU under the "Sustainable and Solidarity City" future investment programme, in order to implement innovative projects, particularly in terms of environmental excellence. The first evidence shows that projects will be presented in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u69	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor to put his question, No. 70, on the work on the RN4 Nancy-Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u70	Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, I would like to draw your attention to the need to finally complete the two-track roll-out of the national RN4 road between Nancy and Strasbourg. I would like to associate my colleague and constituency neighbour, Fabien Di Filippo, with this question. Indeed, while the development between Saint-Georges and Héming is under way, a final section between Saint-Georges and Gogney, which is 8.2 kilometres long, remains to be completed. To date, no budget has been included in the State-Region Plan – CPER contract. This last section, borrowed by 10,000 vehicles each day, of which 30% are heavy goods vehicles, is the most accident-prone in Lorraine. Thirty-three accidents have occurred since 2010, including eleven fatalities. The Moselle Prefecture and the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing have undertaken initial studies and consultation meetings with the elected representatives, in order to find the best solution in terms of mapping, from a functional, technical and financial point of view, to promote the continuation of this project. The Greater East region made a significant effort by adopting a budget of 225,000 euros for the operational studies to be carried out. These could be carried out in the coming months and completed by the end of 2019. The work could then begin as early as 2020, in the continuity of the work in progress. But now we have to budget for the work. Mr Secretary of State, is it envisaged to include this work in the future contract for a State-region plan, in order to finally meet the expectations of all Lorrains, in terms of security and economic development of their region?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u72	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u73	Mr President, you asked this question to Elizabeth Borne, who asked you to excuse her for not being able to be present and asked me to answer you. I take the precaution of repeating that I will remain specifically in the words which Mrs Borne has kindly prepared. You draw his attention to the two-way development project of the RN4 between Gogney and Saint-Georges. In 2015, the multiplicity of regional priorities and budgetary constraints allowed only the work of the Saint-Georges-Héming section to be included in the current CPER, amounting to 34 million euros, of which 17 million were taken over by the State. Ms. Borne is fully aware of the security issues that arise on the adjacent section, between Gogney and Saint-Georges. The State and local authorities are very active in advancing the project, which has been the subject of many discussions. Occasional studies were commissioned in November 2015 and are currently being carried out by the State authorities, in consultation with local elected officials. Following the first visit, that of 2016, these studies are now included in the CPER, amounting to €750,000, of which 50% are financed by the State. In particular, they analyse the possibilities of optimising the project, with the aim of adjusting its route as close as possible to the current RN4 and thereby reducing its cost and environmental impacts. These studies are conducted in consultation with local elected officials, and a presentation meeting of the first results was held in October 2017. The State will choose the preferred option by the end of the first quarter, i.e. in the coming weeks. The next step will be to carry out the project studies, the aim of which is to establish the precise characteristics of the chosen option and to be able to apply for work permits, including the water law authorization and the "protected species" derogation. The work can then only be undertaken if the project is registered with a CPER: either the current one, under the re-visit clause, or the next programming exercise. As part of these procedures, the registration of the RN4 development works between Gogney and Saint-Georges will be carefully examined in light of the issues that you have highlighted. Given the cost of the operation, a significant mobilization of communities alongside the government to close the funding plan will be a key asset. In short, enrolment in the SPC remains an absolute necessity for the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u74	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u75	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that answer. The Territory's elected representatives remain mobilized. We see that these studies are essential, but that the real question is that of the budgeting of the work, which is not yet included in the CPER. We do not want to lose a single month, a single year: in the chain of the first quarter, the shutdown of a section and studies on the water law must allow us to consider budgeting in the next State-region plan contract. It is a matter of safety, because this work will help to avoid accidents and save lives, but it is also an economic necessity to support this landlocked territory. Fabien Di Filippo and I are counting on you and will remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u77	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to put his question, No 75, on infrastructure projects in the Alpes-Maritimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u78	I wanted to draw the attention of the minister responsible for transport to the difficulties encountered by many employees of the Alpes-Maritimes department in making the daily journey between their home and their work. In fact, two poles are currently facing major difficulties: the Sophia-Antipolis technopole and the Principality of Monaco, where 36000 and 33000 employees work respectively. In total, nearly 70000 employees face major difficulties related to the very poor functioning of rail transport and the saturation of roads. Faced with this situation, the local authorities, including the departmental council that I chaired and which is now chaired by Charles-Ange Ginesy, as well as the region, the metropolis Nice-Côte d'Azur and the intercommunalities, have proposed several ambitious solutions. Long-term solutions require the implementation, too long-awaited, of a new high-speed line: the new Provence-Côte d'Azur line. Mr. Secretary of State, will this long-awaited bill be included in the mobility policy bill? It provides for the opening up of the Alpes-Maritimes by rail, but also for the service, by regional express transport, of the technopole of Sophia-Antipolis. Two more modest short-term solutions are now being considered. First, the introduction of a specific track on the A8 motorway would provide a high-service bus service. This unprecedented solution would allow, through the enlargement of the A8, much faster access to public transport, which would be gained on the emergency stop band and on the central ground. What's the status of this project? Second, the Beausoleil motorway ramp could be reopened. Thanks to the financial commitment of the department in particular, the budget is not excessive and the project could be implemented very quickly. On these two practical, pragmatic and useful issues, we look forward to a response from the Government. Will these projects be included in the motorway investment plan? They are expected by 70000 employees and visitors to a department that is, in many respects, an international showcase of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u80	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u81	Mr. Member, you wanted to question Elizabeth Borne, who apologizes for not being present and asked me to represent her on behalf of the Government. The creation of a quarter-distributor in Beausoleil and the completion of a detailed technical feasibility study, known as the "application in principle file", relating to the development of a high-service bus route between Villeneuve-Loubet Plage and Antibes Est, on the A8, are among the operations which the previous government had wished to carry out as part of the motorway investment plan. The plan provides for the two operations to be partly financed by the local authorities concerned and partly by increases in toll rates applied on the network granted to ESCOTA. Its implementation requires the issuing of amendments to concession agreements approved by decree in the Council of State, after advice from the Authority for the regulation of railway and road activities – ARAFER. In its opinion of 14 June 2017, the Commission considers that the interest of the proposed high-service bus route on the A8 is not sufficiently proven at this stage to justify the financing of a request for principle file by motorway users. In view of these criticisms, and given the relatively low cost of this study, it is not envisaged that it will continue to be included in the motorway investment plan. In view of the challenge posed by this development for the department of Alpes-Maritimes, however, the State will give its consent to the company ESCOTA to undertake, in spite of everything, the necessary studies, once the co-financing has been gathered. This detailed study should confirm the technical feasibility of the proposed developments, demonstrate that the safety and traffic conditions of motorway users will not be degraded and make the cost of the operation reliable. On the other hand, I would like to inform you that it is envisaged to keep Beausoleil's quarter-distributor project within the scope of the motorway investment plan. Following their ongoing finalization, the draft decrees approving the draft amendments to the concession agreements will be considered by the Council of State in the coming weeks. With regard to the proposed new Provence-Côte d'Azur line, which you mentioned, it is a matter of responding to the saturation of the Marseille, Toulouse and Nice railway nodes and of connecting regional capitals more quickly while providing users with more regular and reliable regional connections. The only priority sections of this project represent an investment of almost €7 billion. Project definition studies were conducted to determine the lines. This project is currently under review by the Infrastructure Guidance Board. The Government hopes that, as part of this process, all the optimisations of existing networks will be sought – this is essential – to enable us to quickly restore regularity and capacity to our transport services. It is not a question of calling into question the major projects for the territories but of placing them in a realistic and sustainable timetable and of undertaking their realization only once all the possible optimisations of the conventional lines have been mobilised. This is why the new Provence-Côte-d'Azur line is currently under review with the aim of optimising the consistency and phase of the project in order to integrate the priority given to everyday transport and allow rapid improvements in the service rendered to users every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u82	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor to put his question, No 84, on the transport infrastructure between Saint-Étienne and Lyon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u83	My question, which is addressed to the Minister of Transport, concerns mobility between the agglomerations of Saint-Étienne and Lyon. Mobility is indeed an essential element of the quality of life and citizens have requirements in this regard. After the foundation of mobility, the policy bill we will be looking at this spring must move us from an equipment policy to a strategy of mobility for all, which is both realistic and innovative and pragmatic. Many citizens want the situation to progress in order to improve daily travel and to better accompany the economic development of the territories in all sectors, not to mention, for example, the question of proximity agriculture, which is a major subject for the territory both rural and peri-urban that I represent and which is located in the south of the Rhône department. The construction of new infrastructure with a high environmental, agricultural and financial impact, such as the A45 motorway project supposed to link La Fouillouse to Brignais, two towns in the towns of Stéphanois and Lyon, does not seem relevant. This project of the past – more than thirty years! – is outdated and provides a bad answer to the problem that is posed. On the other hand, it seems necessary for the State to help local authorities to improve existing infrastructure, whether it is the TER line linking Saint-Étienne to Lyon, a line which lacks ambition, the current A47 or the Givors bridge, which is particularly undersized and poorly integrated in its environment. At the same time, it seems interesting to work on innovative solutions, to reduce the use of daily travel in individual vehicles. The Government's willingness to develop the right to telework and access to broadband throughout the country is in line with this. Can we consider basing ourselves on territories such as the one I represent to think differently of the mobility of everyday life, and to experiment with and encourage incentives for the development of telework and the establishment of coworking centres in rural and peri-urban areas, with the aim of limiting the movement of daily life towards metropolitan areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u84	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u85	Mr Borne, who regrets being unable to attend this morning, asked me to represent her. You asked her about the answers to the challenges of mobility between the Stéphanois and Lyon agglomerations, whether they are infrastructure or innovation in mobility, which you know I am very sensitive to. A motorway project between these two agglomerations, the A45, which was declared of public utility by a 2008 decree, was the subject of a call for tenders for the realization in the form of a concession in April 2012. This 48-kilometre project, which is estimated at a total of €1.2 billion, will require a public grant of €790 million in concession balance, which is now extremely high in terms of amount and amount for a licensed project, which is normally financed from private funds. This is one of the projects examined in the framework of the Infrastructure Guidance Council, which responds to the wishes of the President of the Republic to analyse projects with a view to the sustainability and sincerity of the budget. It is expected to deliver its conclusions shortly. In addition, between September and December 2017, we led the participative approach to the foundations of mobility, in order to identify the priority needs and expectations of all those involved in mobility who, to this end, were invited to express themselves in order to create new solutions. This will lead to a mobility policy bill, which will be presented to Parliament in the first half of 2018. If the continuation of the A45 concession procedure was not decided, it would then be appropriate to look for multiple alternatives for improvement, including the development of the A47 and the strengthening of existing rail links. In addition, as you pointed out, in order to improve daily mobility, we want to encourage the territories to innovate. As a result, Ms. Borne will very soon launch a call for expressions of interest to identify communities that are candidates for testing in this area. The innovative practices that you refer to are particularly suitable for rural and peri-urban areas: they seem to me to be appropriate for the purposes of this call.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u86	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u87	Thank you, Secretary of State, for this answer, which I call encouraging. Perhaps it would be appropriate to correct one of your rising figures: if the current motorway project is estimated at 1.2 billion, the actual cost will be much higher because several sections are not planned, including the arrival on the Lyon agglomeration. The project is therefore approaching more than 2 billion: that is why we are many, elected local and citizens, to think that it is better, as you have also suggested, to take an interest in existing infrastructure and in new forms of travel and work aimed at reducing mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u88	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor to put her question, No. 87, on the opening up of the Haute-Vienne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u89	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. Today, the Haute-Vienne suffers from a real enclave, whether it is rail, air or road. It is up to the State to set a course for a forgotten territory of means of high-speed locomotion. That is why I would like to draw your attention today to the specific development project of the RN147, which connects Limoges to Poitiers via Bellac. Secretary of State, I was not born that my predecessors were already questioning yours, on the benches of this assembly, to ask for an arrangement of the RN147 in two two ways. This is evidence of both a constant concern on the part of local elected officials and a clear inefficiency in the progress of this issue. But the expectation of my fellow citizens is strong and legitimate: it is a matter of securing a road that kills; It is a matter of linking two former regional capitals to create a pole of balance in a new large administrative region such as Austria; Finally, it is a question of allowing our territory to be accessible and to pursue its development ambitions. The State-Region Plan Contract – CPER – 2015-2020 provides for a two-way development of the RN147 over 6.5 kilometres, between Limoges and Nieul, and an overtaking niche. This first section is encouraging: can you confirm that the 2015-2020 SPC will be respected by the state? In addition, a 6.5-kilometre stretch on a 120-kilometre road appears modest. Can you assure me of the state's ambition to continue its commitments, either through the next CPERs or by supporting a licensed motorway project? And at what rate? Finally, we know that financing is the problem: is it possible to put in place an alternative solution to the eco-tax, which is capable of providing financing for this type of road investment projects?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u90	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u91	Madam Member, Mrs Borne would like to apologize for her absence and asked me to provide you with her answer. You draw his attention to the opening up of the Haute-Vienne, which includes the improvement of its road and rail services. I wish to provide on behalf of the Government the answers to the legitimate accessibility needs of this territory, which you have recalled. The improvement of the Limoges road service from Poitiers by the RN147 is a priority for the State. As you point out, Limoges' goal of unhindering must be given an appropriate and realistic response. However, the moderate traffic on the central part of the axis, which is representative of the trade between Poitiers and Limoges, does not justify a continuous two-way arrangement between these two agglomerations, let alone a concession of motorways, the amount of which would hardly be acceptable to users. The level of service offered on this axis should therefore be significantly improved. To this end, on September 20, 2017, the Minister commissioned a route study from the prefect of the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region to address the issues of safety, reliability of journey times for users and reduction of nuisances for all residents. These studies will identify operations that could make up an RN147 development scenario adapted to traffic levels and bring real gain to users. They will also make it possible to prioritise the development within a financially sustainable framework for the State and local authorities concerned. The need for improvement will include the portions that now support the most important traffics, i.e., in Haute-Vienne, between Bellac and Limoges. Improvements have already been made in previous contracts: this is the case for Bellac's deviation. Others are in progress. In Upper Vienna, an envelope of €67 million, including €46.5 million from the State, has been included in the current State-region plan contract for the realization of a first section twice two lanes of 5 kilometres north of Limoges and a niche of overtaking between this section and Bellac. Studies and procedures on these developments are under way and are expected to allow work to begin by the end of 2020. The development of the RN147 axis between Poitiers and Limoges will naturally find its place in the future programme in favour of the opening up which the Minister wishes to implement in the case of the mobility guidance law. With regard to the rail component, the Paris-Limoges-Toulouse line will benefit in the coming decade from very heavy investments to regenerate infrastructure and renew rolling stock, particularly old. The priority given by the Government to upgrading the structural network after decades of underinvestment is reflected in a genuine effort to upgrade the axis in order to ensure the reliability of the service rendered. Nearly 1 billion euros will be invested by SNCF Réseau in the regeneration of the Paris-Orléans-Limoges-Toulouse axis between 2015 and 2025. All these investments must make it possible to offer by 2025 a quality service to all travellers on the axis, in terms of regularity and travel time offered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u92	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u93	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that answer. Allow me, however, to stress the need to bring to the Haute-Vienne, particularly in the north of the département, a solution of de-enclavement within a reasonable time, as advocated in the report on the de-enclavement of the Limousin and neighbouring territories submitted by Mr Delebarre to the Government in 2017. I invite you, as well as the minister, to come to Upper Vienna to see the state of enclaving our territory with a view to defining together the solutions to be implemented. I'd love to welcome you. We will then have the opportunity to talk about digital accessibility in the north of Haute-Vienne!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u94	Mrs Aude Luquet, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 76, concerning the prohibition of heavy goods vehicles in transit in the forest of Fontainebleau.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u95	I would like to draw the attention of Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, to the crossing of heavy goods vehicles in the city of Melun and the forest of Fontainebleau. Every day, more than 90,000 vehicles, including 4000 heavy goods vehicles, travel on this road from the north of the agglomeration to the south and vice versa. With regard to transit traffic, it has been shown that heavy goods vehicles choose this route to avoid the toll of the nearby A5 motorway, which would allow them to recover the A6. To meet a purely financial logic, heavy goods vehicles cross these urban and forestry areas, which has a substantial impact on the quality of air and on the quality of life of the inhabitants of Melun and its agglomeration. In addition, this traffic poses a threat to the biodiversity of the unique area of Fontainebleau Forest. Indeed, it, which covers more than 25,000 hectares, enjoys an international reputation because of its history, its natural characteristics and its tourist attraction, with more than 17 million visitors per year. This forest, home to a particularly rich and diverse fauna and flora, was classified as a biosphere reserve in 1998 and joined the European Natura 2000 network in 2004. With its biodiversity, the forest of Fontainebleau is a precious space that we must preserve. It seems, therefore, that the crossing of the city of Melun and the forest of Fontainebleau by the heavy goods vehicles in transit goes against the preservation of the natural spaces and the quality of life of the inhabitants who reside there. Therefore, in order to protect ecosystems and populations, I ask the Minister of State to prohibit heavy goods vehicles in transit from crossing the Fontainebleau forest, as there are routes and bypass infrastructures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u96	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u97	Madam Member, you wanted to question Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. As he could not be present, he apologized to you and instructed me to answer you. I apologise for sticking to the letter of the message he has kindly sent to you. You have drawn the Minister's attention to the impact of crossing the wooded massif of Fontainebleau by the heavy goods vehicles in transit on this massif and on the quality of life of the inhabitants of the city of Melun, and you are calling for a ban on this transit traffic. Almost all of the departmental roads crossing the forest of Fontainebleau and Melun – RD 138, 606, 142, 607, 636, 408 and 409 – play an important economic role for the territory at the departmental, regional and national levels, and thus have the status of high-traffic roads. The routes which these routes constitute must, according to Article L. 110-3 of the Road Code, "ensure the continuity of the main routes and, in particular, the clearance of traffic, the movement of exceptional transports, convoys and military transports and the economic service of the territory, and, as such, justify special rules in the field of traffic police. » The ban on the traffic of heavy goods vehicles on these routes, which could be proposed by the managing authorities of the latter, should be assessed by the representative of the State, given their status as high-traffic roads and, in any event, the prefect should be able to guarantee that the economic and logistical hubs of the Fontainebleau-Melun-Sénart sector can always be served. This could also be considered in terms of their downgrading of the large circulation network. The re-examination of the status of these roads requires an amendment to the decree establishing the list of high-speed roads. This amendment may be proposed by the Prefect of the Seine-et-Marne department after consultation with the communities concerned. Its justification requires an analysis of the flows of heavy goods vehicles and the possibilities of alternative routes, in order to assess the impacts and to identify the most favourable route in view of all the issues raised, in particular economic, environmental and road safety issues. This study could be conducted under the authority of the Prefect with all stakeholders. The importance of the logistics hubs of the large sector which extends around the A5, Fontainebleau, Melun and Sénart certainly makes these two hypotheses delicate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u98	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u99	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for transmitting Mr Hulot's reply. Although I know that you will not be able to answer me, I would like to stress that my question concerns transit traffic, not the heavy goods vehicles that go specifically to Fontainebleau, Melun and Sénart. Heavy goods vehicles in transit use this route in order not to pay 4 or 5 euros of toll: this is a different problem than that of economic attractiveness or logistics in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u100	The next speaker is Mr Anthony Cellier, to put his question, No. 93, concerning the ASTRID reactor of the Office of the Atomic Energy Commissioner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u101	My question, which is addressed to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, concerns the fourth generation reactor technological demonstrator project, called ASTRID, of the Office of the Commissioner for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energies. According to the report on the implementation and monitoring of future investments, annexed to the draft finance law for 2018, the ASTRID programme aims to enable France to gain faster access to fourth-generation nuclear technology with the aim of continuing the progress in competitiveness and safety achieved on third-generation reactors, a strong uranium resource economy, minimising the production of radioactive waste and increasing resistance to nuclear proliferation. In 2006, France, with the voice of its President, announced its intention to launch the design of a fourth generation prototype within the Office of the Atomic Energy Commissioner, which was scheduled to enter service in 2020. The legislator had confirmed this commitment in Act No. 2006-739 of 28 June 2006. ASTRID has benefited from a commitment of €627 million in consumables under the investment programme for the future – PIA – accompanied by other financing from industrial or international partners. The annex to the finance bill referred to above further states that "2018 will be [...] a particularly important pivotal year for the continuation, or otherwise, of this transaction. » My question, which goes beyond the divides between pro- and anti-nuclear, highlights the excellence of French research, which is at the forefront on these subjects, and the choice that proposes to us: to preserve our international adership by pursuing this program, while following the course set by the law of energy transition for green growth, or to put an end to research. This crucial decision will, you know, influence our energy policy for decades to come. If the option of continuing the project is preferred, and knowing that France alone will not have the necessary funding, can you tell me what degree of industrial or international partnerships we have achieved and what new partnerships could be concluded?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u102	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u103	Mr President, you have asked Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. He cannot be present, apologizes to you and asked me to answer for him. I apologise for attaching to the letter of his reply in order to answer you as precisely as possible. As you recalled, ASTRID is an industrial fourth-generation, fast-neutron, sodium-cooled reactor demonstrator. The objective of this project is to demonstrate the industrial feasibility of multi-recycling plutonium contained in spent fuels from the pressurized water reactors of the current French nuclear park and the separation -transmutation of ultimate waste. Started in 2010, this project is currently in a detailed preliminary project phase since January 2016, until 2019. It will be funded over this period, including through the Future Investment Program – PIA. If the project continues beyond 2023, a consolidation phase, for the period 2020-2023, will precede a construction decision which will take place from 2023 and will be followed by a development phase, from 2024 to 2028, before the construction phase, from 2029 to 2039, for a first criticality – or first reaction in the reactor – in 2039. The young public present this morning in the Chamber will understand that all our debates today concern them: it is for your generation that we hold all these debates. As far as the deadline for the detailed preliminary draft is concerned, the State will have to decide during 2018 whether or not to continue the project, and, if so, what changes should be taken into account in our research and development programme dedicated to the closure of the cycle. It is anticipated that this decision will address several issues. First of all, it concerns the long-term management of radioactive materials and waste, then the economic relevance and possible horizon of the deployment of a fast neutron reactor line in the French, European and global space, and finally the possibilities of financing ASTRID by industrial and foreign partners – EDF, Framatome and, in particular, our Japanese partners. The State associates all the actors involved in the programme with its current thinking. At the same time, ECA was asked to actively explore ways of deepening existing cooperation with Japan, aiming for a significant Japanese financial contribution, commensurate with the involvement of this actor, who is now the project's first technical partner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u104	Mr Anthony Cellier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u105	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this clarification. Like all my colleagues, I can only offer to visit my constituency to see the CEA's industrial sites in Marcoule, in the Gard, and to talk with local economic actors, who are waiting for the decisions and progress of this ASTRID preliminary project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u106	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Demilly, to put his question, No 96, on the development of biogas in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u107	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. The challenge of developing biogas production is both ecological, energy and economic. The aim is to continue to diversify our renewable energy mix, while providing innovative opportunities for French agriculture. Several areas of work seem to me to have to be developed. First of all, it is the acceptability of production plant projects. Indeed, despite technological advances and the strengthening of standards, too many cases are threatened or have been stopped due to concerns of the inhabitants, linked to a lack of information. Without increasing administrative procedures, it is therefore necessary to set up a consultation component in advance of any new project in order to involve the inhabitants. Explain, concert and reassure: these must be the key words behind any initiative. Secondly, if the Government's reflections on the revision of the classification of installations classified for the protection of the environment – ICPE – go in the right direction, we need to go further. Three regimes exist today: controlled declaration, registration and authorization. A list identifies the wastes that can be used for the methanization of facilities subject to the reporting regime, which is the most common. Apart from this list, the installation will automatically be included in the authorisation regime, which is much more binding – one could give a upuesque example: a slice of bread, perfectly harmless, will automatically be subject to the authorisation regime, because it is not included in the list of waste covered by the declaratory regime! In addition, a change in the administrative status of the digestat from methanizers operating solely from plant materials should be considered. It is in fact considered administratively as waste, called negatively connoted when it actually applies to a plant product. The consequences are severe regulatory, time and financial constraints. An intermediate status between sewage sludge and standard compost should therefore be found. Finally, the cost of connecting biogas production plants to the grid weighs heavily on the project financing plan and explains some failures. If a 40% reduction in the cost is effective for the distribution network, nothing seems to be envisaged for the transmission network. In order to encourage an increasing number of farmers to become involved in the energy transition, it is therefore imperative to reduce these costs and to consider at least equivalent refaction. I would therefore like to know what action the Government is planning to take to address these questions and to actively support the biogas sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u108	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u109	Mr President, you wanted to question Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. As he could not be present, he apologized and invited me to represent him on behalf of the Government. I apologise for attaching to the letter of his reply in order to provide the most accurate answers to your question. You draw the Government's attention to the actions it envisages to develop the production of biogas, in particular through methanization. We fully share your concern. Methanisation is indeed a promising sector, with multiple benefits both in environmental terms and in terms of job creation. Biogas production must play an important role in achieving the objectives set out in the Energy Transition Law for Green Growth, building on, inter alia, the deployment and widespread sorting at source and organic recovery of biowaste. As a result, the sector already has both strong support for public policies and a regulatory framework adapted and proportionate to these challenges. In the ongoing review of the multi-annual energy programming – PPE – we will examine both the possibility of increasing biogas production targets in the short term, i.e. by 2023, and in the longer term, by 2028-2030, and ways of facilitating the development of this sector, in particular the injection of biomethane into networks. As regards the acceptability of the projects and the consultation on these projects, in addition to a building permit which is the subject of a mandatory display, the methanisation installations are subject to the regulations of the installations classified for the protection of the environment – ICPE. This consultation allows each citizen and the local authorities concerned to be informed and to make their views known. In addition, the evolution of the ICPE nomenclature, which you are quoting, is under way and is intended to create an intermediate registration regime for all forms of methanisation and to raise the threshold of authorisation, with a view to reducing procedures and simplifying the launch of new projects. In addition, the facilitation of the organic valuation of the digestates, which you mentioned, is an important avenue for the development of methanization in France. The administrative status of the digestates, however, today has no impact on the regulatory possibilities for agronomic valuation. Land uses are regulated by the provisions of the Rural Code, but regardless of the status of the material applied, whether or not it is classified as waste. Nevertheless, we continue to reflect, in conjunction with the departments of the Ministry of Agriculture, on the possible ways to extend the possibilities of extracting digestates from the status of waste. As regards the potential intermediate status between sewage sludge and standard compost, the Waste Framework Directive requires us to assign, or not, waste status and does not provide for intermediate status. Standardised composts, including from sludge, will soon be able to be removed from waste status under the conditions laid down in the Environmental Code, and a European regulation will also allow most of them to be removed from waste status. Finally, I confirm that it is well planned to reduce the cost of connecting biomethane production facilities to the natural gas transmission system. This will promote a more balanced deployment of biomethane production in the Territory, including in rural areas furthest from existing natural gas networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u110	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 86, concerning the situation of residential establishments for dependent elderly persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u111	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Madam Minister, I would like to share with you my very great concern about the situation of housing establishments for dependent elderly people, the EHPADs, throughout the national territory, and in the Dordogne department in particular. Families of residents, staff and trade union organizations have alerted me to the significant difficulties that many of these institutions face, which I myself have seen in the recent visit to fifteen public and private EHPADs in my constituency. It is often a lack of staff that affects its functioning. This calls into question the quality of addiction support, as well as the guarantee that our seniors will receive appropriate care at the right time. The "Large Age Solidarity" plan of June 2006 and the Act of December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing set as an objective a ratio of 0.65 caregivers per resident, which should be increased to 1 professional per resident for the sickest and most dependent elderly. The data collected in recent weeks by the trade unions, and more particularly by the Labour Force, show that at present in the Dordogne, this ratio is only 0.2 caregivers per resident, much lower than the national targets shown. As our society is aging, the care of our elders cannot fail. This is a challenge that we must face now. This requires re-examination of the remainder's problem for residents and an increase in the number of permanent and temporary reception places. Minister, we are facing a crisis, which will only worsen if nothing is done to change the situation. What levers of action do you envisage to act so that our parents and grandparents who are deprived because of their great fragility can benefit from the worthy accompaniment they deserve, and thus restore a little serenity?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u112	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u113	Madam Member, you are right, we must adapt our EHPADs to changes in society, particularly demographic changes: 1.5 million people over the age of 85 today; They will be 5 million by 2050 – which means more and more complex care, especially as a result of the increase in age. In order to respond, appropriate training must be provided for staff. As you can see, the aging of the population and the status of EHPADs are priorities for my department. I will not list again all the measures of the Social Security Financing Law for 2018 that concern EHPAD – you know them: creation of 4500 places in EHPAD, opening of 1500 temporary beds, allocation of 100 million euros to the care package, creation of tens or even hundreds of night nurse posts. The reform of EHPAD funding initiated in 2017 will also be continued; It provides more than €430 million in investment over seven years. I would like to review the working conditions of EHPAD staff. These are often difficult. That's why I have launched a mission on quality of life at work and training so that these staff can best ensure their mission at the bedside of our seniors. I would also like to take advantage of your question, Madam Member, to reassure all staff, users and families. In the next few days I will present an action plan, which has been coordinated with all the actors, in order to better accompany the EHPADs. My will is to put in place a sustainable organizational model to ensure a quality offer throughout the country, tailored to the needs of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u114	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u115	Minister, thank you for your encouraging response. The human quality of management also plays an important role in team support and relationships with residents and their families. I'd be happy to show you if you came to visit us in our department. In discussing with the directors of the EHPADs in my constituency, I detected some sort of anomaly. EHPADs in the private sector have better room for manoeuvre than those in the public sector: on the one hand, their adjustable tariff allows them to supplement, if necessary, the supervisory rate; On the other hand, because of their status under the general scheme, the rapid replacement of employees does not entail any significant additional costs for the establishment. In order to replace sick staff, public EHPADs are obliged to use a very high amount of private insurance, which covers only part of the cost to the employer. I found that some EHPADs did not replace absent staff, with deficiencies ranging from eight to twenty-eight days. Twenty-eight days without a staff being replaced! Overwork for others leads to more injuries to work and exhaustion. The rate of absenteeism appears to be proportional to the time of non-replacement. When the replacement is fast, there is a low rate of absenteeism; This is the case in the private sector. When replacements are difficult, as in public EHPADs, there is a significant deficiency, with a higher rate of absenteeism. This question of the assurance that public EHPADs must enter into would merit serious consideration. The coverage of institutions could be improved by considering the pooling of contracts or by negotiating at the national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u116	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs spoke of her question, No 78, concerning the organisation of care within the framework of territorial hospital groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u117	Minister, my question is about the proposed reorganization of the critical care department tabled by the hospital group in the territory of the Northern Yvelines. The Intermunicipal Hospital of Meulan-Les Mureaux has been going through a period of anxiety for several months. Two years ago, the oncology department was closed and transferred to another facility in the territorial hospital group – GHT. The closure of this service has helped to reduce the need for resuscitation. The regional health agency – ARS – has, however, authorised a derogatory operation of this service consisting of six resuscitation beds and four in a continuous monitoring unit. In September 2017, the SRA announced that the resuscitation service is expected to close by the end of October. Since then, an agreement has been reached to maintain the resuscitation service in the current state of operation until 31 January 2018. In order to continue the activities of resuscitation on the site, an application for authorization of resuscitation activity within the framework of the critical care department of the GHT of the Northern Yvelines was requested by the management of the GHT from the ARS. The objective is to rethink the balance of beds between resuscitation service and continuous monitoring unit, opting for a different distribution over the entire GHT. An advisory opinion will be delivered on 25 January 2017 by the specialised committee on the organisation of care. This new organisation would be in line with Article 51 of the Social Security Financing Law for 2018, which aims to foster the emergence of innovative organisations in the health and medical-social sectors. The Intermunicipal Hospital of Meulan-Les Mureaux consists of 495 beds and employs 1200 health personnel. It receives the public residing in the priority district of Les Mureaux, and thus contributes to equal access to care for a public experiencing mobility difficulties. The hospital is also committed to practices or projects that are in full compliance with the objectives set out in Article 51 of the Social Security Financing Act; In particular, he responded to a project on the link between city medicine and hospital. All the elected representatives of the sector have mobilized alongside the healthcare teams to maintain the activity of resuscitation on the site. Madam Minister, would it be possible to authorize an organization at the GHT level, not the hospital? Could you give us your opinion on the project submitted in this direction by the GHT of the Northern Yvelines?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u118	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u119	Madam Member, you are asking me about the future prospects for the organisation of critical care for the Northern Yvelines HHT. First of all, I would like to inform you of my interest in this matter on which you have already alerted me; I'm very vigilant about it. Following a negative vote by the specialised committee on the provision of care, the authorisation of the activity of resuscitation of the intercommunal hospital centre of Meulan - Les Mureaux was not renewed beyond 31 July 2017. Pending a solution to reconcile safety and quality of care, the Regional Health Agency has authorised the continuation of the activity unchanged until 31 January 2018. This transitional period helped to advance the rapprochement between the resuscitation teams of the Meulan - Les Mureaux hospital centre and those of the Centre hospitalier de Poissy-Saint-Germain-en-Laye and that of Mantes-la-Jolie. The new organization sought is the establishment of a territorial team of critical care – resuscitation and continuous monitoring unit – which would be led by the same head of service and would bring together all units at the GHT level. Particular attention has been paid to the organisation of patients' graduated care, in order to achieve a high level of quality and safety of care, identical at all sites. This new organisation, particularly innovative and supported by the regional health agency, will be examined on 25 January by the specialised committee on the organisation of care of the regional conference on health and autonomy. I would like to point out that I have also launched a wide-ranging consultation on the reform of all authorisation processes, including critical care, resuscitation and emergencies, which has just begun at the national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u120	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u121	Madam Minister, thank you for the information you have kindly given me. However, I would also have liked to have received your personal feeling about this proposal – but that does not mean what the advisory opinion of the specialised committee on the organisation of care will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u122	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor to raise her question, No. 77, on the maximum residue limit for chlordecone in the West Indies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u123	My question is to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, chlordecone, a potent pesticide considered a persistent organic pollutant, has been authorised and used for more than 20 years in the West Indies. Today, this real environmental scourge poses a major public health problem. It is found not only in soils, groundwaters and rivers, but also in fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, with serious health consequences: an increase in prostate cancers and a decrease of ten to twenty points in the intellectual quotient of newborns living in contaminated areas, as revealed by the Timoun study. Despite this chilling reality, in 2013 the European Union announced its decision to dramatically increase the maximum residue limits – MRLs – of chlordecone in meat consumed, only in Guadeloupe and Martinique. These MRLs are the maximum doses under which health authorities consider that there is no risk if consumption is normal. They increased from 20 micrograms to 100 micrograms per kilogram for beef, pork, cabrio and even 200 micrograms per kilogram for poultry. This decision runs counter to the conclusions of the latest scientific studies and the precautionary principle. It places Guadeloupe and Martinique in a situation unique to the world, which nothing can justify. Our populations are forced to plant and raise on contaminated soils and to eat contaminated crops themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the urgent need is for people living in the West Indies to stop exposure to Chlordecone so that they can grow and consume healthy local products. The urgency is to ensure food security and the health of our citizens. That is why, Minister, I would like you to reassure us, by setting out the measures that the Government intends to take, as soon as possible, to enforce the precautionary principle under section 5 of the Environment Charter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u124	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u125	Member, chlordecone products were used to combat banana weaning in the West Indies from 1972 to 1993. Despite the ban on its use for more than 20 years, chlordecone is still found in soils and waters due to its high stability. As you recalled, chlordecone still pollutes about 21,000 hectares of land in the West Indies. Because of its magnitude and persistence, this pollution constitutes a major health, environmental, agricultural, economic and social issue in Martinique and Guadeloupe. The State has implemented national action plans since 2009. Maximum residue limits are set by European legislation, on the advice of the European Medicines Agency. The European Commission amended one of the two regulations in 2013 to simplify its reading. Maximum residue limits on animal products are now expressed in units of fresh weight, not fat. This change, in addition to direct application, has, it is true, actually increased the value of the maximum residue limit since, according to the foodstuffs, it amounts to multiplying it by five or ten. On 1 February 2017, the Ministries of Economy, Agriculture and Health seized the National Food, Environment and Labour Safety Agency, ANSES, to assess whether a reduction in these MRLs was necessary in order to safeguard food safety for the population of the West Indies. Today, ANSES is not involved in setting MRLs. His opinion, delivered on 6 December 2017 after a scientific analysis taking into account all the toxicological and dietary exposure data, the presence of chlordecone residues in food and food consumption patterns in Martinique and Guadeloupe, concludes that there is no need to change the maximum residue limit. ANSES notes that most of the population's exposure to chlordecone is related to the consumption of products from informal, informal circuits, such as self-consumption. These circuits, which are not controllable, are by definition not controlled. Therefore, the Agency considers that "individuals with a majority supply of controlled circuits, which ensure compliance with MRLs, are not exposed to exceedances of the reference toxicological value". The Agency concludes that a decrease in the MRL would not have a significant effect on consumer exposure; In her view, the main measure of protection must be to encourage our citizens to consume products from official channels and to act on consumption patterns. Communication actions involving consumers in these official channels are under way and will be deployed rapidly. We have already confirmed our commitment to the Chlordecone III plan, and are conducting regular controls and health studies to verify the quality and safety of foods placed on the market. The opinion of ANSES is being reviewed by the relevant ministries in order to address the totally legitimate concerns of the Antilleans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u126	Mr David Habib has the floor to put his question, No 80, on less favoured agricultural areas in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u127	I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, about the proposal to classify simple disadvantaged areas and to do so, since everyone is interested in the destiny of his department, by evoking mine, the Pyrénées-Atlantiques – which you also know very well. First, it was essential to revise this classification. The previous one dates back to 1965: it is no longer up to the evolution of our agriculture. On the other hand, you, together with your firm and administration, have taken the measure of the file: no one – and in any case not me – will blame you any in this regard. Let us have the political honesty to say that, your predecessor, too, was committed to managing this issue in the best possible way. We have entered the final phase of presenting the map to the European Union. In a department like mine, some territories are classified, and one wonders why: I am thinking of Biarritz, Anglet and Saint-Jean-de-Luz, where the density of farmers is to the least. Other territories are not classified, as in my electoral district, where there are fewer than 50 hectares of small farms. The agricultural income per asset is also one of the lowest in France – the department occupies the 80 erang in this respect – and the landscape is composed of hillsides, with an important presence of livestock, especially the blonde of Aquitaine. This requires, in addition to the farm's income, support from the Community authorities. In these circumstances, we apply for the targeted classification to benefit, among other things, from the maintenance of the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps, the ICHN. You and your firm were at the initiative of a meeting last week. It was of high quality, and the agricultural world of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques measured your commitment to the issue on this occasion. Today I hope that I can be assured of two territories, the so-called "coteaux" – from Jurançon to Salies-de-Béarn, passing through the municipalities of Lasseube and Monein – and the North Béarn, which I have the honour to represent, also presenting a very special relief, which justifies a ranking by the Community authorities. Thank you again, Minister, for your attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u128	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u129	You have drawn my attention, Mr President, to the reform of simple disadvantaged areas outside the mountains. This subject is important for many farmers in our territories, starting with yours. These ZDS, as you pointed out, had been defined in the late 1970s on the basis of socio-economic criteria but also, at times, of opportunity, now obsolete. A 2003 European Court of Auditors report pointed to the use of non-harmonised criteria leading to very disparate situations within the European Union and a questionable ranking in a number of cases. A review was therefore necessary in order to sustain the support provided to farmers in these areas, which we are doing, in particular with regard to the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps. The European Rural Development Regulation has made this review mandatory for all Member States by 2019. As early as 2016, we initiated discussions in which you participated, with agricultural professionals and the regions, in order to establish a new zoning. The zoning envisaged at the end of this first cycle of work resulted in a very wide map compared to the current map, considerably increasing the need for appropriations from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development – EAFRD. This map could therefore not be considered fiscally sustainable. Similarly, the relevance of certain criteria was problematic. In terms of methodology and timing, my services have organized a new round of plenary meetings; they started on November 29, 2017 with representatives of agricultural professionals and regions, and allow to examine different scenarios. At this stage, 90% of the municipalities currently classified are included in these zoning projects, and the quality of the work done and the consultation is welcomed by all the participants: you have just done it yourself, and I thank you for it. Work on zoning is therefore continuing, the Government's objective being to define a fair and fiscally sustainable map, which best preserves livestock areas, according to a timetable compatible with its approval by the European Commission and within time limits allowing for the usual implementation of the CAP – Common Agricultural Policy campaign for 2019. The work is therefore being finalized, in consultation with stakeholders, professional organisations and regions. I will obviously be mobilised at European level to defend the interests of farmers. I have noted your question, which concerns two territories in particular; Please know that I am very attentive to this and that we will coordinate our work in order to define a global mapping. We still need to have some discussions about other territories, but I have taken note of your request and the state of mind in which you put it; We will be able to translate it into action to ensure that the breeders of the Béarn and the Pyrénées-Atlantiques get answers to their questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u130	The next item is the question by Mrs Nathalie Bassire, No. 73, on the impact of paillots on the environment and public order in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u131	My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Overseas Affairs, concerns the situation of beach restaurants, known as "paillotes", in La Réunion. The level of the oceans continues to rise and the beaches are the first victims, with increasing damage, particularly in terms of the decline of the coast line and the erosion of the coastline. On Réunion Island, the lagoon is an essential tourist asset, and the marine reserve has come to sanctify this remarkable biodiversity. According to the law, the public maritime domain is an inalienable and imprescriptible collective heritage. The rules are numerous, whether they are the "coastal law", the fifty geometric steps, the urban planning code, the environmental code or the decree on beach concessions. However, beach restaurants and paillotes have been built and are constantly expanding on the Hermitage beach, in the seaside area of Saint-Gilles, affecting the free passage of the public. I myself have found an insufficient width between the natural shore of the sea and the rocks and embankments. The illegalities are numerous and obvious, but do not seem to be punished, hence a sense of impunity for those responsible, who feel little threatened by a discredited State. Public order is clearly disturbed in its three components. Local residents complain of disturbance to public tranquillity due to nuisances, including noise, and public safety is of concern, with an unacceptable sanitation of restaurants' wastewater. I personally saw dirty water pipes from the sand; I can't imagine what about the fat water from the kitchens. At the very edge of our marine reserve, our lagoon, our coral reef and our biodiversity certainly suffer! Health risks to the population are also sensitive. Electrical cables connected to these paillots are also within the reach of children, and the circulation of delivery vehicles on the back of the beach is a daily threat to public safety. All these points are aggravated by an increasing concentration of people on the lagoon since bathing activities were banned as a result of the shark crisis. The cost of these serious environmental damage is immense for the community, well above the million euros of annual revenue generated by a handful of beach restorers. Yet polluters are not the payers. The risks of coastal erosion and marine submersion are known and scientifically demonstrated: who would dare say that the sea is not in its place? We cannot look elsewhere when our house is burning, President Chirac said at the top of the Earth in Johannesburg in 2002. I therefore ask you, Minister, what is the relevant information you can provide us with regarding the resolution of this sensitive and priority matter. The solution necessarily requires respect for and enforcement of the law, exemplary and rapid sanctions and the restoration of public order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u132	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u133	First of all, Madam Member, I would like to apologise to you for my colleague Annick Girardin, Minister for Overseas Affairs, who, currently detained in Polynesia, has asked me to answer you. You are asking the Government about the solutions envisaged in the face of the nuisances suffered by the residents of the beach restaurants. As you know, the rules specific to the state reserve, known as "the fifty geometric steps", strictly regulate the occupation of the public maritime domain. Beaches forming part of the State's public maritime domain, their tourist exploitation and the installation of paillot-type equipment or beach restaurant are subject to the regulations on beach concessions. I would also remind you that municipal police powers are also exercised in the maritime public domain; in the event of an infringement, the mayor may intervene in the maintenance of public safety, and have the minutes drawn up followed by administrative sanctions, with the obligation to carry out work of upgrading to the standards of a facility. Penalties may also be criminal, be they fines or, in the most serious cases, a court sentence of imprisonment. There are also obligations for the State to combat pollution of seawaters, to remove dangerous objects in the natural maritime public domain or to protect biodiversity. The Littorals of La Réunion are, for some, confronted with conflicts of use and increasing pressure. As regards the public maritime domain of the community of Saint-Paul, the latter has signed with the State a management agreement on almost all of its coastline, from Cape La Houssaye to the communal limit, with three basins, for a period of 18 years, from 1 January 2008 until 31 December 2025. This coastal area, however, requires special attention from the State, in direct connection with the marine national nature reserve, as it borders the most frequented seaside areas, in particular the lagoon on which pressure has increased since the famous shark crisis. On the other hand, natural risks are particularly high throughout the sector. I am thinking in particular of the risks of flooding, therefore the PAPI – flood prevention action programme – and the PPR – risk prevention plan – coastal, defined in consultation with the community; This is why the Prefect of La Réunion and the deconcentrated services of the State accompany it, in particular in the exercise of its police power, to ensure the coherence of public action. Thus, on 1 December 2017, a meeting between the State departments and those of the commune of Saint-Paul allowed the action plan already under way to continue. An administrative closure order was issued against the controlled establishments. Further controls are planned in the coming weeks, according to a coordinated schedule.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u134	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor to put his question, No. 82, on the orientation and security of career paths.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u135	Minister, the Minister of Labour is preparing with all stakeholders a bill to reform the learning that we needed very much. I would like to draw his attention to two major issues – the orientation and security of the courses – that determine the development of learning. Indeed, accompaniment and preparation for entry into learning will help to address these concerns. In the context of the reform which is under way, it is really important to provide for arrangements which will, in particular, prevent the far too many interruptions of apprenticeship contracts. Apprenticeship is a great way of training, offering career and social success paths. In order for apprentices to benefit fully from these trainings and get involved in the best possible conditions, thus confirming the orientation chosen – and I say "selected" – towards a trade, a personalized accompaniment must be offered to them. To this end, an apprenticeship preparation airlock in the apprenticeship training centre – CFA – could be created for any public, not only school pupils, but also job seekers, such as people undergoing retraining, from the age of fifteen. From a few weeks to a maximum of one year depending on the situation, this airlock, which would allow an upgrade of the knowledge as well as a discovery of the companies, will have to be the confirmation of a real professional project. The preparation for learning will also allow for the reception of audiences who have broken contracts or who wish to reorient themselves after a first experience that is more or less successful. This accompanying arrangement will also promote the respectful commitment of companies to the signing of apprenticeship contracts. The Minister welcomed this proposal rather. Will it be included in the reform of learning in preparation and, if so, what dimension will be given to it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u136	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u137	Mr Pénicaud, first of all, I apologize for the absence of the Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, who asked me to answer you in her place this morning. You are asking the Government about two key points in the development of learning, namely the orientation and security of courses, as well as the possibility of creating a pre-learning airlock. Note that there is already a system of initiation to the alternance trades, the DIMA. This training, which takes place in CFA and vocational lycée, for a period of one year, in school status, is accessible to pupils from the age of fifteen. Within DIMA, students continue to acquire the common knowledge base and discover trades, including 18 weeks of internship, including observation sequences, initiation courses and application courses. They may sign an apprenticeship contract at any time, if they have previously completed their schooling at the college, in accordance with the legislation on entry into apprenticeship. However, fewer and fewer young people are entering the scheme: fewer than 5,000 young people have now chosen this route. While actors in the field report positive results, with gains in terms of maturity and self-confidence for young people who are often in difficulty, DIMA suffers from an image associated with difficulty in school. The participants in the ongoing dialogue on learning did indeed question the effectiveness of this mechanism. Beyond that, there was unanimous agreement on the need to better prepare young people for learning. Indeed, lack of maturity and knowledge is a barrier to the signing of an apprenticeship contract. Similarly, a young apprentice, who starts his training in a company without mastering the gestures and professional codes, faces the risk of an early breach of his contract. In this context, a consensus has emerged on the need to organise an airlock, which would allow every young person to benefit from support according to his needs and to confirm his learning project by valuing it. A consultation-based recommendation report is to be submitted to the Minister of Labour in the coming weeks. It will serve as the basis for the bill, which will be tabled next spring in Parliament. The Government will therefore pay attention to the possibility of establishing such a lock, the practical modalities of which remain to be defined, in order to better meet the needs of apprentices and enterprises, and to promote the development of apprenticeship, thus of the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u138	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u139	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for acting through the Minister of Labour. It is true that learning is a very good way to work. Everyone agrees that this is a path that must be developed. Training, a commitment to employment, is real within the CFAs. Also, Minister, I entrust you with conveying to the minister, who is often on the ground, my invitation to visit, in Toulouse, a CFA where I have taught. I would be delighted if she would respond favourably to this invitation, because it is a team of dynamic, forward-looking teachers who teach in the CFAs to apprentices who are genuinely motivated by the desire to have a job and are committed to the digital professions. Indeed, digital has completely transformed the skills of learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u140	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to put her question, No. 92, on the school map in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u141	Minister, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of National Education to the school map of the 2018 school year in rural departments. The President of the Republic announced that there would no longer be school closures in rural areas for the next five years. However, the Jura Academy Inspector has just communicated the list of some 40 schools threatened by job withdrawals. Over the past ten years, Jura has lost many schools. When a school closes down, it is a village that dies, because it loses attractiveness and a tool of social bonding. These are jobs that disappear and young children who, morning and evening, travel by bus the countryside – in the Jura, the mountain – for longer and longer journeys, with the ensuing economic and environmental dangers and consequences. Grouping schools together, this council of the Minister of National Education was widely heard by the elected representatives of Jura, who showed responsibility and anticipation. They have invested significantly in schools, modern and well-equipped school groups. Understand their incomprehension when they are told that a class is closed because there are two or three students missing, while two-year-olds are not taken into account. So what priorities does the Government have in favour of rural schools, in order to maintain a satisfactory network of our territories, so that the average number of children per class is compatible with good educational conditions? What measures does the Ministry intend to take to increase the enrolment of two-year-olds in kindergarten, which too often serves as adjustment variables, while it is an essential tool to combat school inequalities? The means available for education are the keys not only to the success of each of our children, but also to progress and social cohesion for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u142	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u143	Madam Member, first of all I would ask you to accept the apologies of Jean-Michel Blanquer, chosen this morning by the consultation on the professional route, who asked me to answer your question. As you know, honourable Member, the development of a quality and proximity educational offer in rural areas requires a continuous and long-term policy. School is one of the key levers for preparing the future of our rural territories. Devoting all our energy to it is a duty of solidarity with our fellow citizens and with our children. To do this, we must have a more offensive educational policy in rural areas. The richness and quality of the educational offer can become an additional attractiveness factor for our rural areas. Since 2014, rural conventions have been a concrete expression of the collaboration of the Ministry of National Education with all local actors for a policy in favour of rural and mountain schools. These conventions, instruments for the organization of primary education, are aimed at maintaining and improving a quality educational supply in rural areas. They can actually be achieved through communal or inter-communal educational groups of schools. They are based on the identification, thanks to statistical tools developed by INSEE, of territories requiring a reorganization of school networks. These reorganisations are carried out by multi-annual commitments. Without a mandatory format, rural agreements are concluded at the departmental level between local elected representatives and devolved departments, academies and prefectures. The departments which are signatories to these conventions are accompanied in this process by the granting of additional teaching jobs, at an average of five full-time equivalents per department. Since 2014, 40 departments – out of 60 eligible for the scheme – have signed a rural agreement. The Minister of National Education hopes that the process of contracting between the State and local and regional authorities, through the signing of rural agreements, will be continued and consolidated, in order to create the conditions for an amplification of this system to all the territories eligible for it by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u144	Mr Olivier Véran has the floor to put his question, No 81, on the financing of the growth of French small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u145	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, my question follows yesterday's presentation, on the occasion of the Grand Rendez-vous of the productive investment organized by our colleague Amélie de Montchalin, of an original mechanism for financing the growth of our small and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs – especially in the export sector. The challenge of financing SMEs is major, in order to maintain in France know-how and jobs, guaranteeing competitiveness through quality. It is always annoying to see an innovative company, which has developed in part thanks to public funds, through research, technology transfer, incubators, aid in the form of research or innovation tax credits, to experience encouraging beginnings, to be well accompanied by the Public Investment Bank for its first fundraising, but to see its situation become more complicated when it needs to raise no more than a few hundred thousand euros but several million euros to grow and honour its orders. Such companies often seek financing abroad, in Asia, China or the United States, a development often accompanied by job losses. However, the economic recovery is good and good – a rate of over 2% is expected. Order books are full, but without financing, a company, even a performing one, is like a car without gasoline! Banks are increasingly supervised and controlled. In a few years, the cost of risk has dropped from EUR 16 billion to EUR 10 billion. The financing of SMEs, as we know, is still very much linked to bank credit, as capital and market financing is still underdeveloped in our country. The project presented yesterday, which I support, is carried by civil society. In this regard, I welcome in particular the actors from Grenoble – Jean-Michel Gliner, serial entrepreneur, and Jean Vaylet, president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Grenoble. This project aims to develop a local funding offer in the form of a professional crowdfunding. The local nature of such a scheme would give meaning to the savings of the French who, sensitive to the economic situation of the local enterprises, would have a direct effect on the economic fabric of their region. Thanks to regional and European guarantees as well as a diversification of securities, it would be a consumer product targeted at SMEs and with low risk. The form to be studied would be that of a regional SICAV – an investment company with variable capital – which, by pooling both the risks and the benefits of an investment, would limit the risks. These regional SICAVs could be fed in part by wage savings, in part by a new orientation or a reorientation of a fraction of the French heritage capital, which amounts to 4,500 billion euros of financial assets and 7,500 billion euros of real estate assets. A EUR 1 billion SICAV in a large region such as the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region would support more than 1000 SMEs in the region. I would therefore ask you, Madam Secretary of State, to inform me about the possible establishment of such a mechanism and how the State could accompany it. This mechanism, I would remind you, comes from civil society and is accompanied by our majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u146	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u147	Member of Parliament, the 2018 Finance Act implements the largest tax reform in the last 30 years. The abolition of the solidarity tax on capital – the ISF –, replaced by the property tax – the IFI – and the introduction of a flat-rate tax of 30% on capital income are aimed at simplifying and reducing the taxation of capital. This reorientation of savings must benefit all companies, and in the first place our SMEs. That is why the Government is naturally in favour of any private initiative to finance SMEs, particularly those rooted in our regions. These initiatives contribute to the important appropriation work essential to the concrete translation of tax reforms, which must be carried out with all the actors: savers, financial intermediaries and businesses. This was also the impetus sought by the La République group in motion during the great event of productive investment organized yesterday by Mrs Amélie de Montchalin in the National Assembly and in which I had the pleasure of participating. This event gave you the opportunity, Mr. Member, to present this regional SICAV project. I repeat, all the ideas that favour the allocation of French savings to equity financing of productive and innovative projects are welcome. We have been very attentive to the project that you have presented to us, and have mobilized the competent departments of the Ministry of Economy and Finance to discuss it in detail with those who carry it. Some issues remain to be explored, such as the diversification of assets, as well as the careful examination of the technical feasibility of your proposals. But if private actors seize the project to design and commercialize it, the state could support it, and Bpifrance, no doubt, contribute to its dynamics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u148	Mr Olivier Véran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u149	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u150	Mr Denis Masséglia has the floor to put his question, No 88, on business taxation in the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u151	My question is to Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy and Finance. For many years, we have no longer counted the considerable sums that are being subtracted from the French tax administration by large foreign groups. These groups set up their European headquarters in other countries of the Union, which impose extremely attractive taxes on large companies. Consequently, their economic activity, which generates very high incomes on French soil, makes it possible to recover only derisory sums in relation to the amounts involved. This is not a question of fraud or tax evasion as such, but rather a tax optimisation that foreign companies lend themselves to by dealing with legal loopholes and wide disparities in taxation within the European Union itself. How can we allow our businesses and businesses to pay large taxes on their profits, even though foreign companies that compete directly with them would largely fail to do so, sometimes up to billions of euros? This situation is not tolerable. We need to harmonise fiscal policies so that businesses across Europe pay what they owe where they are, where they have business and income. It is also about the financing and sustainability of our social model. Here are several examples. Airbnb paid less than EUR 100000 in taxes in France in 2016 for revenues estimated at more than EUR 150 million across the Union. The shortfall would be €5.4 billion between 2013 and 2015 for Google and Facebook alone. When the former pays less than 1% of its revenue in taxes in Europe, compared with 9% in the rest of the world, the latter would be less than 0.1%, compared with 28-34%. What measures does the Minister intend to implement, together with his European counterparts, to restore consistent harmony and tax justice within the European Union?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u153	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u154	Thank you for your question, honourable Member, because it gives me the opportunity to take stock of the Government's efforts to ensure fair and equitable taxation of large multinational companies, in particular digital giants. This is indeed a priority for France. It is not permissible for companies with the greatest contributory capacity to escape tax in the countries in which they operate. Last September, in line with the commitments of the President of the Republic, Bruno Le Maire, together with nine of his European counterparts, including his German, Italian and Spanish colleagues, launched a European initiative for fair taxation of digital giants. A proposal from the European Commission is expected in the spring; on its basis, we will work very actively to reach an operational solution by the end of this year. Similarly, in order to put an end to tax optimisation and competition practices within the European Union, we are taking an active part in the work on the common corporate tax base. We have started work with Germany on convergence, so that European work can move forward faster. Beyond this, we support the Bulgarian Presidency of the Union with a view to adopting, in the first half of 2018, a proposal for a Commission directive to empower tax advisers who create aggressive tax optimisation schemes. As you can see, corporate taxation remains a priority for the Government, particularly for government action at the European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u155	Mr Denis Masséglia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u156	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. I am of course at your disposal if you want to talk to me or if you need help working on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u157	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor to put his question, No. 89, concerning the situation of Calvados casinos.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u158	Madam Secretary of State, in France there are 200 casinos, which generate 15,000 direct jobs and 30,000 indirect or seasonal jobs, mostly paid at a level just above the social minimums. They contribute €1.2 billion per year, of which 60% is for the State, 21% is for municipalities and 19% is for social affairs. This important sector comes out of a period of regression of more than ten years. Its gross income fell by more than 25 per cent due to the combined effects of the economic crisis, the application of the anti-smoking law, identity checks at entrances and the rise of online games and clandestine gambling. The gross proceeds of games – EUR 2.2 billion, up 2.5% last year – must not hide the fact that more than 100 casinos have a turnover of less than EUR 8 million, with an average of 10 jobs per EUR 1 million. The turnover of the seven casinos in my constituency increased this year, but at the cost of the sacrifice of hires or investments. The increase in the CSG for all, which we voted for, will also have a direct impact on the accounts of these institutions, for more than 20 million euros according to estimates. However, casinos make a major contribution to the tourist activity and attractiveness of the territory, and represent an undeniable budgetary resource for the municipalities where they are located. What measures are being taken to support the strong investment they need, which is also a government priority for tourism financers? Moreover, these economic actors suffer silently in their day-to-day management, because the image of their activity costs clichés from a past era. They have become accustomed to being disconsidered by the general public, by some policies, but also by some administrations. However, the operating conditions of these companies are officially scrutinized and verified by means of procedures which also deserve to be reviewed. A casino operator is primarily a legal person, a declared trader; But he is too often seen as a potential offender and is subject to a presumption of guilt. As part of the protection of the game, players and the fight against money laundering, the authorities and Tracfin are calling on casino operators to exercise more than increased vigilance. Their civic sense naturally pushes them there. But in what context can they do so, and with what support from the State services? Madam Secretary of State, it is a whole profession that hopes for marks of consideration, a profession that constantly gives guarantees of its civicism, of its sense of responsibility, of its concern for the public interest by cooperating with all the services of the State, and which nevertheless struggles to be regarded as a partner. Casinos want to meet these challenges, but with public authorities as partners. How to reconnect?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u159	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u160	Mr President, beyond the context of the Calvados department, which is linked to the presence of a large number of gaming establishments in a restricted geographical area, you must not deny the difficulties you are experiencing, particularly in view of the competition for online games. However, I would like to point out that in three of the eight institutions in Calvados, which are not necessarily the most important, the gross proceeds of the games have increased between 2015 and 2016 – date of the latest known figures of my services. But there is certainly a need to explore ways of remedying these difficulties. In this regard, several recommendations can be supported. First, we must work to strengthen the link between tourism players and casino operators. In fact, all casinos are operated in classified tourist resorts and these establishments are important attractions for certain clienteles: beyond the practice of games, customers also go there to eat and entertain themselves through the performances offered, and the quality of these last services also depends, in particular, on the choice and promotion of the programming, the engineering provided locally by the tourist offices. Secondly, the simplification measures announced at the Interministerial Council on Tourism on 19 January last concerning classified stations will provide the appropriate framework for reflection to encourage the diversification of casino activities and to encourage them to become more involved in local tourism policy. Finally, it seems to me desirable that the Ministry responsible for tourism should be able to return to its seat in the advisory committee on games of circle and casinos, which decides on the openings and renewals of operating permits, so that the arguments in favour of tourism can again be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u161	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u162	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your clear and precise answer. As far as the specific situation in Calvados is concerned, I had already mentioned it in my question. I've been a business manager for twenty-five years. What casinos are asking for is to be able to spend more time with their customers than to carry out administrative procedures. It is also the meaning of our commitment to administrative simplification and the right to error.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u163	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor to put his question, No. 94, on an exclusive permit for mine research.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u164	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to alert you to the concerns of an increasing number of elected officials and inhabitants, including farmers, twenty-five communes in central and western Mayenne, concerned by an application for an exclusive permit to search for mines, known as "Olivet permit". This application, filed in February 2015 by SGZ France, a subsidiary of an Australian multinational, for a search for rare metals – gold, silver, zinc, lead, germanium – has since been under consideration at the Ministry of Economy. The State had two years to respond, but no decision was taken in February 2017. The federation for the environment in Mayenne and the association Pays de Loiron Environnement, which relay the questions of the Mayennais, have never been able to meet any representative of this society and rightly denounce a genuine lack of transparency in the procedure of application for a permit. However, this type of project leaves an extremely marked environmental footprint: pollution, subsoil collapse, threatened drinking water resources. This raises – you will understand, Madam Secretary of State – legitimate apprehensions among the population. Especially since the territory has already undergone mining explorations in the past. The mines in La Lucette produced 100,000 tonnes of tailings with levels of antimony, cadmium, nickel, lead and iron above impact levels. The site is also included in the BASOL database, which lists hazardous sites. This project is of no economic interest to the Mayenne: completely robotic, it will not create any jobs. It is already known, however, that it will cause many nuisances for residents and the environment. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to remind you that my department has paid a heavy price for the construction of the very high-voltage power line and the high-speed railway line. In the very recent past, these two projects have given rise to a great deal of concern, and the wounds of the Mayen population are not yet fully healed. Many mayors and farmers have already signed a mining refusal order on the plots they own. Madam Secretary of State, are you going to give an explicit opinion against this permit application?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u165	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u166	Mr President, thank you for bringing this point to my attention. I understand the legitimate concerns of the population in Mayenne. The procedure for granting exclusive mine-search permits is to identify, after a competitive process, the best candidate for conducting a mining exploration on a given perimeter, given substances and a specified duration of not more than five years. In this case, the application filed by SGZ France was not the subject of filings of competing applications. The procedure provides for a set of steps including local consultations and public participation in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Code. This instruction is still under way. It should be noted that in the event of a favourable outcome, a mining research title does not permit the initiation of mining work. The detailed assessment of environmental issues belongs to the Prefect, in the context of applications for authorization to open works. The work likely to cause significant damage to the environment is also conditional on the prior preparation of an impact assessment subject to the assessment of the environmental authority. In this context, any intervention on the site of the Lucette, which you have quoted, will be the subject of special attention by the Prefect, who may, if he considers it necessary, limit or even prohibit the planned work. Finally, since the substances covered by this permit and the economic benefits of this type of activity are mentioned, I think it is appropriate to stress the importance of metals such as antimony, germanium and indium for ecological transition technologies. Since our industry's supply of these raw materials is totally dependent on imports, mainly from China, any plan to improve this situation, for example by mobilising our own resources with the best environmental and social standards, deserves our attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u167	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u168	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I have complete confidence in the services of the State, and especially in the prefect of Mayenne. I hope that you will be able to share your answer this morning with the national representative and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u169	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-23-O1119.u170	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion of the draft law for a State serving a trust society. The meeting is adjourned.
