ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, on the fight against fraud (No. 1142, 1212, 1188).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u3	Mr President, the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Laws, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again – and hopefully one last – to finish the very important work that we have undertaken with senators and with you, in committee, since the bill called "the right to error", so that fraud is more harshly punished and the error in good faith better recognized. If the mistake is human, persevering is diabolical: the two Government texts complement each other effectively. I would like to welcome the important work carried out by the rapporteur and the members of the Committee on Laws, as well as the fact-finding mission on procedures for the prosecution of tax offences, chaired by Mr Eric Diard, whose consensus I welcome. The Finance Committee adopted eighty-seven amendments from all groups in the National Assembly. In engaging in this debate, the Government is guided by a constructive attitude, which, I hope, could lead it to adopt most of the amendments tabled by parliamentarians, regardless of their political orientation. Madam rapporteur, I believe that your doubts in certain areas have been partly removed in committee. Let us hope that, on a number of subjects other than the one that made the headlines, namely the disappearance of the 'Bercy lock', we can, in the next three days, work to amend the text and thus return it, I hope, almost perfect before it returns to the Joint Joint Committee and, perhaps, an agreement between the two chambers. This bill carries budgetary, philosophical and technical challenges. With regard to budgetary issues, I have had the opportunity very recently, in keeping with the commitment I made during the discussion of the previous finance bill, to work on the objectivation of the amount of tax and social fraud in our country. You probably heard the announcement I made about that at Bercy. Although the estimates vary greatly, we know that this amount is considerable: it would be between $40 billion and $100 billion. In 2017, a union mentioned the figure of $80 billion. It fell well, it was the amount of the public deficit. And this year, while the press was talking about a deficit of 100 billion, the same union was carrying its estimate at the same amount... As if we had not, on the other hand, to achieve savings and transformations, as if fighting fraud was enough for our budgetary happiness. This is obviously not true, even if naivety is also to be excluded: we all have to carry out public policies together to combat any form of fraud, and especially against big fraudsters. This text also raises philosophical issues. In committee as in the Senate, we have worked not on the best fiscal policy for our country – this is not the purpose of this text: it is the finance bill that will be the framework for this political debate – but on how to fight fraud more vigorously, especially tax, but also social. To that end, the Government had made a number of commitments, and amendments had been adopted by senators and, above all, by deputies. The question of Bercy's lock is, so to speak, settled. Madam rapporteur, I will have the opportunity to speak, as I have done in committee, about the issues related to the circular which we will co-sign with Mrs Custody of the Seals, which will in a way be the counterpart, in terms of regulations and administrative policy, of the vote which your House may be voting on the end of Bercy's lock. Important issues are at stake around the tax police. The provisions have been deleted in the Senate, and you are proposing that they be reinstated. I am prepared to make further commitments to complement the mechanism usefully: it is not a question of inciting a kind of police war, but of offering an additional weapon to the magistrates, who will have the opportunity to seize a new body. I would point out that, if these tax officers are placed under the authority of the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, they can only be seized by the magistrates, in the same way that they can currently refer the matter to the customs investigation department, which is under the authority of the Ministry of Public Action and Public Accounts, or the police services, which are under the authority of the Minister of the Interior. It is not a question of undressing Peter to dress Paul, but of completing the panel of legal mechanisms available to our magistrates in the fight against fraud. There are also significant challenges in the area of platforms. We will have an opportunity to discuss the rapporteur's amendment and the one proposed by the Government. Your House is calling for greater coherence in public policies in this area – I am thinking of the famous Cherki amendment under the previous legislature, which, however, was not the subject of an implementing decree when we arrived. Both senators and members of the House of Commons, on every bench, are asking questions about the fact that the physical world is fulfilling its tax obligations, but that in the digital sphere one escapes it. [[Smile]] It should be noted that sharing should not be subject to taxation. I would like to point out, after a few deformity undertakings, that it is not a question of imposing where this is not to be done. It is not a question of taxing the sale of the stroller that Eric Woerth, perhaps, operates on a well-known site, and that Charles de Courson, for example, could buy. I might as well have talked about bilboquets, by the way... The idea is to introduce a little equality between the physical world and the digital world, in order to fight against tax fraud that does not say its name. This is the corollary of Bruno Le Maire's work at European level on the taxation of digital giants, starting with GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon. Fraud of tax is obviously completely unacceptable. It's a prank, maybe a stab at the Republican pact. It is to tackle the very foundations of representative democracy, the advent of which is intimately linked to compulsory levies. Of course, we will have a debate here on the level of taxation – the Government considers that it is still too high: like last year, it will propose, in the finance bill, to further lower the tax – but we have to pay its fair tax. Letting the idea that the contribution to public charges would always be a consideration for personal profit is not in line with the idea of the Republic. Finally, I would like to remind you that the principle of equality – whether it is equality before the tax law, within the meaning of Article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789, or equality before public office, within the meaning of Article 13 – is opposed to a violation of the payment of tax, which makes it possible to make public services work and to ensure the necessary solidarity that I am sure everyone here calls for. Another threat to taxation is that of international fraud. At the end of the text we will mention the question of tax havens, these famous "black holes", and the European list. The dividing line with tax optimisation is not always easy to establish: it is the debate between morality and legality. We hope that we will do more law than morality here, even if, of course, the representatives of the people have every legitimacy to express their views on this distinction. The Government has pledged at least to listen, and perhaps more so, to requests to go further than OECD and European Union countries. We shall come back to this, in particular with regard to amendments which we have accepted from Members of the Republic on the move and from MODEM, but also from the Socialist Group and the Democratic and Republican Left. At the national level, we must ensure that the very good work, not yet fully completed, carried out by Jean-François Parigi, president of the information mission on tax optimisation and tax evasion, and Bénédicte Peyrol, his rapporteur, lead, if not to a concretisation in this bill, at least to an affirmation of the will to fight tax fraud more strongly. The concept of civicism had already been put forward in the law establishing the right to error, and might be further developed in the finance bill, if Mrs Peyrol tabled amendments in accordance with what she had advocated in the fact-finding mission – I once again welcome her work in this area. This particular link must be developed, as it is the best way to combat tax fraud, including morally. Both my services and those of the Ministry of Economy and Finance will pay close attention to the findings of the information report by Mr Parigi and Mrs Peyrol. The bill also strengthens the tools and means for sanctions. In this regard, customs plays a major role in the fight against smuggling, counterfeiting, trafficking and fraud. Today's discussions on tobacco smuggling highlight the need to strengthen the legal capacity of our customs officers. On the other hand, with regard to the tax and social obligations of platforms, and especially of fraud engineers – not to be confused with those who merely advise clients, without participating in the fraudulent organisation – we have a debate with the Law Commission. I am sure that the debate in the Chamber will help to inform the vote of Members on the introduction of a specific sanction against them. Finally, strengthening tools to deter tax evasion is important. Thus, the text introduces exclusive administrative penalties for criminal sanctions, applicable to persons who, I have just mentioned, contribute by their provision of services to fraudulent montages, but also to the use of guilty pleas, a procedure that is sometimes more efficient and faster for justice, with a stronger symbolic dimension. We will have the opportunity to examine the new tools proposed by this text to better understand the fight against fraud. As regards transactional matters, we have had a long debate in committee and are ready to have it again in the House. As far as Parliament's information is concerned, we have accepted, at the request of the rapporteur, amendments concerning the compulsory debate, which has not yet existed, on the action taken by the Government of the Republic with regard to the list of non-cooperative states and territories – ETNC – and, more generally, the fight against fraud. Madam rapporteur, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, the work in committee, preceded by the Government's efforts to deepen the dialogue with Parliament for the past 15 months and by your mission, the rapporteur, Mr Diard, makes that there is only one motion tabled on this text, which shows that the entire National Assembly feels informed. The discussions in committee were lengthy and, although the text was not unanimously voted on, it was not hindered by the words of parliamentarians who considered that the Government had not been pragmatic, protective of freedoms, nor strong in its will – even though we still, of course, have a lot of disagreements. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This very strong will is accompanied, at the request of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, by pedagogy, so that we can fight fraud more effectively, not ideologically, but practically. The example is not the best way to convince, it is the only one. So I will try to bring you many to convince you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u4	Mrs Emilie Cariou, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u5	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, "When we deal with tomorrow's problems with yesterday's organisations, we are reaping today's tragedies. If I quote the great sociologist Michel Crozier, it is to call for the necessary modernization of our action and of all actors to fight fraud: this is the meaning of the bill we are considering today. To increase sanctions against tax fraud is not only a commitment of our presidential programme, it has become a necessity every month more acute, as fraud against public administrations, whether fiscal, social or customs, is an infringement of the republican pact and is increasingly perceived as an unbearable breach of our social pact. Those who claim to be able to exonerate themselves from their obligations must hear our determination to fight fraud. It was therefore essential that, after the law on the right to error, enacted in August, a draft law on the fight against fraud should be introduced. This text, which was discussed at length in the Senate, initially had two headings, one on capacity building and the other on strengthening sanctions. In the course of the parliamentary debate in this House, a third title was added, dealing with the reform of the criminal procedure applicable to tax fraud, i.e. essentially with the overhaul of Bercy's lock. I commend the Government for its extensive work and ultimately for accepting our proposals for reform of the initiation of proceedings against tax evasion. I also thank the parliamentarians of all the groups for their contributions and for supporting this reform. The amendment that we adopted in the Committee on Finance at the end of July comes directly from the parliamentary work of the fact-finding mission of which I was rapporteur and Eric Diard the chairman. Together, we have demonstrated that Parliament can be a force for proposals; We have sought and obtained consensus, and are co-building our reform with the Government. The latter will allow prosecutors to exercise their prerogatives, through the opportunity to prosecute a larger number of cases. As a result, there will now be automatic denunciation of the most serious cases to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Above all, we have laid the modern foundations for better cooperation between the judiciary and the tax administration, as is the practice in many countries. The promising basis for modern, networked action against fraud is, in our view, laid. We will therefore be paying attention to the prompt adoption and content of the legislation, including the circular you have just mentioned, Minister. The parliamentary discussion greatly enriched the text presented by the Government, which contained eleven articles: the Senate added eighteen articles, half of which were deleted by our Finance Committee. In other words, we have retained half of the articles inserted by the Senate, in particular concerning the suppression of the offence of customs laundering, the reporting obligations for accounts held abroad, the extension of the judicial convention of public interest in matters of tax fraud, the fight against tobacco trafficking, or the restoration of the transactional power of the tax administration in the event of criminal proceedings. As I say again, the very important parliamentary time left in the Senate since March has been put to good use, and I welcome the investment of the general rapporteur Alberic de Montgolfier and the senators who voted the law. On the other hand, we have reinstated section 1, deleted by the Senate, creating the new tax police service attached directly to Bercy. This service will complement and not replace the National Brigade for the Suppression of Fiscal Crime – BNRDF. The Government has made and reiterated very clear commitments in this regard, including good coordination, in response to the reservations of the Council of State. I therefore call for the strengthening of our specialized police capacity to combat fraud, and I will therefore support this article. We have also introduced ten new articles. Of these, four are the result of amendments by Bénédicte Peyrol to better combat tax evasion, including the opportune Article 11 bis B, which extends the concept of a country with a privileged tax regime and which allows or facilitates the implementation of a range of anti-abuse tools. We have also included in the text two articles on the initiative of Daniel Labaronne and Members of the La République group on the move, one providing for the alignment of the prerogatives of judicial tax officers with those of judicial customs officers, and the other providing for better control of the life course in the matter of ex officio taxation. Another article was inserted by amendment of the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, Mr Joël Giraud, to modernise the procedure for authorising access to connection data by the Autorité des marchés financiers. Two articles come from amendments by Vincent Ledoux and several members of the IDU group, Agir et Indépendants. The first provides for the adjustment of the tax procedure and the second introduces a national system for the traceability of tobacco products. An article is based on an amendment by Jean-Louis Bourlanges and several members of the MODEM group. It facilitates the complaint procedures of the tax administration. The text that we are going to consider from today therefore now contains thirty articles. I would add that amendments have been passed to the clauses of the original bill or those added by the Senate. I will not go back to my amendment on the reform of Bercy's lock, except to point out that the sub-amendments of Laurence Vichnevsky and Charles de Courson have set the threshold for the transmission of cases to the prosecutor's office at 100,000 euros of cleared rights. I would also point out an amendment by Éric Coquerel and several members of the La France insoumée group, which extended to natural persons the mechanism for publishing administrative sanctions provided for in Article 6. Finally, identical amendments by the GDR, Socialist, MODEM and France groups have provided in Article 11 for the possibility of including States of the European Union in the list of ETNCs. I would like to provide some clarification on three important issues, namely platforms, tax boards, and tax havens. You mentioned, Minister, the subject of platforms, which makes a lot of ink run, often surprisingly misinformed. It is dealt with in clause 4 of this bill. As I said in committee, this is included in the report, but my presence in the gallery obliges me to repeat it: this article does not change the tax treatment of the income our fellow citizens derive from the platforms. Article 4 deals with reporting obligations for platforms, which will allow for better identification of those who seek to avoid tax. Thus, what is now taxable, such as furnished rental, will remain taxable under the same conditions, and what is now exempt, such as income from carpooling or selling second-hand goods between individuals, will remain taxable. At the time of the committee's examination, however, I had wondered whether it would be appropriate to provide the tax administration with information on exempt activities. The Government is putting forward an amendment that takes this into account, but I do not think that it has all the consequences of this problem. I will therefore propose to you an amendment that provides for an exemption from transmission to the administration for exempt revenues, in order to avoid an unjustified burden for platforms and a submersion of administration by millions of data, which would risk drowning in the mass the data useful tax. I come to another delicate subject, which is dealt with in Article 7, that of the services provided by certain counsel which lead to abusive behaviour. I know that this article sparked a lot of excitement among lawyers. I would like to reassure the authors of amendments: the purpose of this article is not to mislead the profession of lawyer; it does not constitute an infringement of professional secrecy, the latter remaining applicable, unless of course, if the customer raises it; Finally, it does not ignore the principle of legality of sentences or seek to circumvent the judge or anything else. So, what's this article doing? A fine is imposed on intermediaries who, by virtue of their services, have made it possible to carry out serious breaches. These violations are not necessarily criminally prosecuted, but remain harmful: occult activities and abuse of law are all acts punishable by law, whose accomplices must also be punished. As I say now, I will be against all the amendments which intend to reserve the sanction of the intermediary to a criminal conviction or to a definitive sanction of the taxpayer abusively advised. This last point, which had been introduced by the Senate, was deleted in committee: it would have deprived the measure of any efficiency and diverted it from its objective. In fact, this article does not apply to lawyers as such, but rather to all officials who, outside any regulated framework, provide turnkey solutions to escape tax. Another important issue is that tax havens are dealt with in Article 11, which transposes into French law the European list of non-cooperative tax courts, which we asked for during the review of the Finance Act for 2018. Many have been moved by the size of this famous blacklist of tax havens. I would remind you that she has a sister, the grey list, and that we will obviously be attentive to it. These countries must be subject to a number of obligations, and we will have the opportunity to examine them. The battle against aggressive tax optimisation also includes the subject of the ETNCs, and we will have an opportunity to discuss it. There are questions about the lists, but I would also like to point out that certain procedures in the General Tax Code for countries with preferential taxation can enable us to achieve the same objectives, without necessarily placing countries on lists. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and UAI groups]] In conclusion, I hope that at the end of the discussion, all the groups will vote on this text. The fight against fraud is an objective that we all share. The task is tough, but this text helps to solve some of the great difficulties we face, by equipping the administration and justice with new tools adapted to the typology of frauds of the twenty-first century. We could not resolve to fight increasingly clever and massive fraudulent behaviour with the tools designed in the previous century. Together, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will have made some progress. The fight against fraud will require further progress, and this bill, which was considered in the first year of the quinquennium, is the compass for the next few years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u6	Mr. Jean Terlier, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u7	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against tax and social fraud, the annual amounts of which, as you have pointed out, Mr Minister, amount to between EUR 60 billion and EUR 80 billion, is not simply a budgetary requirement. It is also, and perhaps in the first place, a genuine democratic imperative. Indeed, tax evasion is a serious detriment to the consent to tax, which remains one of the major principles guaranteed by the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights and which historically constitutes the foundation of our parliamentary democracy. Combating tax fraud effectively requires that the means be put in place. That is precisely the meaning of the bill that we are considering today. This text pursues an objective that we all share: to strengthen the weapons available to the State in order to better detect fraud and, where appropriate, to punish it in a prompt and dissuasive manner. Improving the efficiency of administrative organisation and criminal procedures in the fight against tax and social fraud is of direct interest to the Law Commission, which has therefore taken up nine articles for opinion. I recall that on 11 October 2017, the Committee on Laws, together with the Committee on Finance, set up a joint fact-finding mission on procedures for the prosecution of tax offences, the report of which was delivered on 23 May 2017. Allow me to pay tribute to the trans-party work done by Émilie Cariou and Éric Diard, which sheds useful light on the challenges this bill now faces. Considered in the Senate early in the summer, this text has been substantially amended by our honourable senators, who have deleted and added more than a dozen articles. Within a particularly demanding time frame, the Law Commission and the Finance Committee have carried out a very detailed examination of all the provisions contained in this bill. I would like to warmly thank Émilie Cariou, with whom I have been able to participate in the numerous preparatory hearings she has organised as rapporteur of the Committee on Finance. On the nine articles before it for its opinion, and at the end of my work as draftsman, the Law Committee voted in favour of the re-establishment of section 1, deleted by the Senate. This article allows for the creation of a new department with national jurisdiction to conduct judicial investigations in tax matters. This is a useful and concrete step forward, which strengthens the fight against tax fraud. It will allow the creation of a genuine tax police, under the direction of a magistrate and at the judicial centre formed by the national judicial customs service – SNDJ. Moreover, this future judicial investigation service, whose specialization is made necessary by the complexity of the cases to be dealt with, will work in close cooperation with the latter, which could allow a pooling of the means devolved to the fight against tax fraud. In addition, an amendment tabled by our colleague from MODEM Laurence Vichnievsky was adopted by the Committee on Laws and the Committee on Finance. It is intended to facilitate the filing of complaints of tax evasion, not only by the tax base or collection services, but also by those responsible only for the control of the tax. This simplification is very useful in order to streamline the implementation of public action. Among the amendments made during the consideration of the bill in both committees, I welcome the full redrafting of clause 13 by the Finance Committee with a view to adjusting Bercy's lock, by means of a mechanism that is less restrictive and more secure legally than that adopted by the Senate. The aim is to expand and strengthen the judicial authority's efforts to initiate criminal proceedings in respect of tax evasion. We will have an opportunity to discuss this during the discussion of this article. Finally, I will try to convince you, ladies and gentlemen, of the need to regulate the provisions of Article 7 on administrative sanctions which may be imposed on third parties involved in fraud. It seems to me wise to strengthen the procedural guarantees in order to make the imposition of administrative sanctions conditional on the final criminal conviction of the wrong-doing taxpayer, with a view to ensuring respect for the principle of legal certainty. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you can see, the draft law on the fight against fraud bears witness to an unwavering ambition: to combat a scourge that weakens our public finances and tackles what constitutes the core of national solidarity. This text provides new legal tools that are essential to the effectiveness of administrative and judicial action, given the extent and scope of the offences, the seriousness of which is no longer to be demonstrated. In this regard, inter-State cooperation at the European and international levels needs to be deepened, in which, as I know, the Government has made a clear and determined commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u8	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u9	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, tax fraud is a scourge – on this point, there is unanimity on our benches. First of all, it is a budgetary scourge. The amounts you are quoting, Minister, are turning their heads because they are huge, even if in reality they are not exact: indeed, there is no serious estimate of the amount of tax evasion, and we can shake all the figures we want. It is also a social scourge, as it undermines taxpayers' confidence in the tax system and undermines democratic rules. Moreover, each majority has brought its stone to the fight against tax fraud. As you know, Minister, Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency made major changes to the system during the 2008 crisis, notably by relaunching the work of the OECD, with the BEPS project – Base Erosion and Profit Shifting – and by exploiting the HSBC list, which has enabled other nations to start a fight against bank secrecy. The previous government also brought its stone to the building. But much remains to be done, and the text goes in that direction. I will devote the few minutes that I have to ask you, minister, to clarify certain matters. The first is the taxation of platforms, as the rapporteur pointed out. Clearly, the tax authorities cannot ask them for all kinds of information. On the other hand, we must strive to protect French platforms: there is no reason for them to suffer from a rule that would apply only to them. Of course, it is necessary to properly identify the professionals who use the platforms, who do not pay taxes if they do not report their income. Of course, it is necessary to ensure that the platforms transmit information. Moreover, this is the case for Airbnb and many similar platforms. But in dealing with the subject as a whole, we must not crush any one-time, personal and non-professional use. You don't pay taxes when you use sites like Le Bon Coin or carpooling sites, because there is no income: there is no reason to ask for information, they are useless. It's like the Sunday brocante in your constituency: buying the grandmother's chair or baby seat that has become useless is not a tax – and fortunately! This must be clear in the text. Several amendments have been tabled to this end. We will discuss this, but I think we are aiming for exactly the same objective. The second point is the tax police. We created a tax police ten years ago, composed of tax officers with judicial powers. For reasons of clarity, these were positioned within the Ministry of the Interior, while reporting to Bercy. Minister, you are creating a tax police as such within Bercy, and you are letting the financial brigade employing tax officers in the Ministry of the Interior live. As for judicial customs, it also depends on your ministry. You yourself mentioned a risk of police war, and the press following you. I do not know if it will take place, but obviously the work must be coordinated and the agents must know exactly what makes them different. You'll have to clear things up on this point. The third subject is Bercy's lock. The rapporteur carried out a fact-finding mission on this subject, which was entrusted to her following a debate in the Chamber. I agree with his conclusions. The air of time prompts me to think that this "lock" has probably lived. It is only necessary to keep in mind that the objective is to ensure rapid financial returns, without waiting for two, three or four years, at the pace of legal proceedings. It is obviously necessary to strike at the portfolio those taxpayers who have defrauded, and transparency, which has a limit: the mention of the taxpayers concerned in the local press, at any time and under any conditions. The same applies to the "name and shame" that you have introduced among the administrative sanctions for legal persons. Be careful not to turn France into a vast company of dazibaos, where the photo of anyone who will be considered a bad taxpayer will be displayed at the exit of the tax centres! Beware of public freedoms! The limit of the system is public freedoms, especially as we live in a largely malicious society. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We shall vote on this text, subject to the debate that will follow, because it is in the right direction, according to the agreed formula. Also be careful not to tap on certain professions – lawyers today, auditors yesterday – but the debate will allow to deepen all this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u10	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u11	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, tax fraud is something unbearable. For my part, I add tax evasion, of which it is the whole legal version. I consider those who do this to be thieves and criminals, who plunder the wealth produced by all of us. I use these words voluntarily to highlight their responsibility, but also the evils we are dealing with. According to an Oxfam study, 85% of the world's wealth is owned by the 10 per cent of the richest, and half of the world's population has 0.5 per cent of the wealth. These figures were extensively commented upon when published by Le Monde. Of course, they are not entirely due to tax evasion and evasion. However, they largely take their part in the capture of wealth by some. In France, tax fraud and evasion amount to between €80 billion and €100 billion per year. By comparison, the Government's poverty plan amounts to $2 billion a year. So we could finance only with these sums the equivalent of forty Macron poverty plans per year. Only tax evasion accounts for between 15% and 20% of tax revenues. In short, the people are being asked to tighten their belts more and more, while some of our richest fellow citizens are subscribing to their republican obligations, up to large sums. The fraudster optimizes, but the optimizer is presumed not to be a fraudster. In our view, this logic must be reversed. Fraudsters are offenders, and optimizers of potential offenders. In reality, only the law distinguishes their nature. Moreover, the objective of both is the same: one by illegal means, the other by the margins of legality seeks to avoid redistribution of wealth and taxation. Just by crossing the street, I can find you all the aggressive tax schemes you want. They are now commonly marketed by consulting firms and financial institutions, with a single objective: to reduce their contribution to the collective effort. Mr Minister, you rightly pointed out earlier that there is a problem with representative democracy. We could even talk about a problem for democracy at large and for the Republic. That is why we have tabled a motion to refer to committee, and it is for me to clarify immediately what is missing in the bill before us today. First of all, everyone will have understood this at the end of this introduction, it is a text that only tackles certain aspects of fraud, and in no way tax evasion. I note, moreover, that the majority has just tabled a report on tax evasion, which contains some good ideas. I therefore believe that there is a missed opportunity to legislate globally. Then you're wrong with logic. You are using the old software, as François Hollande did with the corrective claims processing service, which consists of praying the rich individuals and businesses to regularize themselves in exchange for reduced penalties. I'll come back later. Of course, money is brought back quickly – this is often the argument that is put forward to justify these negotiations – but it is of no use if the long-term fight against fraud is weakened. Before I refine the criticism of the bill and the reasons why we are proposing that it be referred to committee, I will refer to what is missing in our view, as well as to the proposals that we are making. First of all, there is a need to improve mechanisms to combat tax fraud and evasion, for example by increasing the penalties for abuse of rights. It is a question of punishing aggressive tax planning, made up of complex arrangements allowing optimizations to the limits of the law. This is what the report on tax evasion, published today, recommends, in particular, to relax the criteria in order to ensure that two exclusive grounds for escaping tax make a main reason. It is then necessary to prevent the manipulation of transfer prices of intra-group transactions, i.e. trade in goods and services between the subsidiaries of the same multinational at prices which are not those of the market, with the intention of transferring profits to low-tax jurisdictions. A real list of tax havens must also be drawn up. We will also defend an amendment aimed at redefining the current criteria in order to introduce tax transparency, compliance with BEPS standards on the erosion of the tax base and transfers of profits, and the absence of a harmful tax regime, in line with the recommendations of the Council of the European Union and the OECD. This would, for example, make it possible to include in the French list a number of States which should be regarded as tax havens, but which are not included in the current list such as Bermuda or the Cayman Islands, where companies do not pay any tax on their profits, as well as Hong Kong, where companies pay taxes on profits, but only on those carried out within the country. Thanks to the adoption in committee of one of our amendments, co-signed by other groups – I would point out to you, Mr Darmanin, that by listing the groups that have tried to enrich the bill you have forgotten that of La France insoumé, but that is not very serious – the countries of the European Union will no longer be automatically excluded from the list of tax havens. This is a step forward, but let us say between us that it is not enough. The criteria we are proposing should now be adopted so that these tax havens within the European Union are actually included in the list. This amendment would also strengthen the weight of Parliament, which detracts from the effective application of the criteria and the list, on the basis of a report submitted by the Government. He would have the last word, deciding whether or not to validate the list. Finally, we are planning a safeguard clause for those countries which are recognised as the least developed by the United Nations and which do not have a financial centre. It is not a question of penalising the most fragile States socially and economically in our fight against the great financial crime, which often uses them only as a support, without any positive impact on their peoples. We also believe that more must be done to combat profit transfers. We therefore propose an amendment aimed at making the brands using tax optimisation mechanisms liable for their tax obligations. I am thinking in particular of McDonald's – hence our proposal's name: 'the McDonald's Amendment' – which organises, through aggressive tax mechanisms, a whole system of weakening the profits of some of its subsidiaries for the benefit of others, with the aim of escaping French corporate tax and not redistributing its profits to employees who work for its business. McDonald's does the same with all their social rights: it uses a system of franchises raised to an extreme level to become, in the end, a mere rental of surfaces, which means that employees find themselves with different rights depending on the subsidiaries. This mechanism prevents the equitable distribution of profits for the benefit of all employees. I would like to greet the employees of Marseilles – the McDo Saint-Barthélemy – and Paris, whose struggle not only helps to protect employment but also to lift the secret about these scandalous practices. There is also a need to renegotiate bilateral conventions and create new mechanisms against tax evasion. For our part, we propose a universal tax mechanism. This makes it possible to distinguish those of our compatriots who leave abroad for the sole purpose of optimising their taxes from those who leave honestly to work elsewhere. The differential taxation, practised by the United States, targets expatriates who pay a low tax in their host country: the expatriate must pay the taxes due to his host country and then pay the difference with France, on the basis of the methods of calculating the French tax. This system would help to combat the tax exile of large fortunes, whose expatriation efforts would become irrelevant. We also want the GAFA to be taxed on their turnover. The GAFAs must return the money! They use aggressive tax mechanisms that, according to the European Commission, allow them to pay less taxes than traditional businesses. The nomadism of companies and the development of the economy of the immaterial for about forty years makes the taxable matter complex to understand and therefore to control. We have therefore tabled an amendment aimed at enabling France to counter the tax evasion schemes practised by these digital multinationals by strengthening the control exercised on non-resident companies with continuous digital economic activity in the national territory. The principle is simple: to impose a tax on the turnover of non-resident enterprises with a marked economic activity in France. Finally, many amendments would be necessary to remedy one of the most glaring shortcomings of this text, in any case if it is to be followed by effects: since 2002, Bercy has lost 40,000 officials! We believe that all these agents should be rehired. How can we act against tax evasion if we weaken the Ministry of Finance? You paid tribute to the Customs, Minister. Is it worth recalling that a customs post is abolished every day, since about 350 disappear each year?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u12	Anything! There's an increase, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u13	You'll answer me later, Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u14	Only Mr Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u15	If it contains positive measures, this text therefore remains insufficient. Thus, he said nothing about tax evasion, whereas the majority had just adopted a report that made several recommendations. Similarly, the creation of a tax police is in fact merely a redeployment of existing services from the Ministry of the Interior to Bercy. No posts are created, while thousands of jobs have been abolished in the tax control department. In addition, the Council of State expressed serious doubts as to the effectiveness of this measure, which could create competition between services. As I said, this text is just taking over the European list of tax havens: it is empty, and so will ours. I have already mentioned the amendment proposed by a number of groups, including ours, which makes it possible to include European Union states – and I thank the rapporteur for having had the elegance to name us among the signatories. But without changing criteria, our list will remain empty, since it will be sufficient for a State to commit itself to improving its transparency in order to remove it from the list, as has been the case with Panama. Several measures of the text are interesting, but deserve to be tightened. Thus, the strengthening of financial sanctions for cases of tax evasion is far from sufficient. In committee, Mr Minister, we proposed that the fine for refusing to communicate or for insulting agents be increased to EUR 5000. You proposed a deal of 3700 euros. I hope that this promise will be fulfilled. The strengthening of sanctions against intermediaries is also a good measure, but insufficient, since the fine could only be raised to 50% of the fees collected. Not more than half of the profits from the organization of a tax fraud: it's curious! As for Bercy's lock, there was a lot of talk about it. The media have been telling us for a few days that he's going to jump. I'll start by reminding you how we got there. A year ago, in July 2017, we fought, against the Government's advice, to blow Bercy's lock, a strange French exception that allows an administration to set up its own court. These cross-party efforts – I am thinking in particular of Charles de Courson – led to the creation of a parliamentary mission, led by Émilie Cariou and Éric Diard, whose work I welcome here. The report of the mission was suitable for us; It was also voted unanimously. But the bill does not exactly reflect its proposals. In particular, it maintains the commission of tax offences – whose report requested the disappearance – and does not take into account in the criteria the 40 per cent increase, so that the number of cases forwarded directly to the court will be divided by two, from 4000 to 2000. In spite of this progress, we will table amendments incorporating the proposals of the report, which I repeat that everyone has adopted it, including the majority and the two chairmen of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I would also point out that all these measures, which are certainly good to take, will only be a pious wish if we do not increase the number of people in the justice system, and therefore the corresponding budget, since there is already a traffic jam in this area. The same is true, as I said earlier, for Bercy's staff. But our main criticism concerns articles 9 and 9 bis, which are contradictory with the lifting of Bercy's lock. Article 9 extends to tax fraud the procedure of appearance on prior recognition of guilt, that is to say, the so-called "advocate-guilty". It is a means of avoiding the criminalization of tax fraud: fraudsters prosecuted in criminal proceedings and willing to acknowledge their wrongs will be able to avoid a trial by accepting the penalty proposed by the public prosecutor, which will in fact be reduced, with the penalty of imprisonment not exceeding one year. This possibility, as we can see, can only favour the most powerful, such as multinationals, who can not only afford legal advisers but also blackmail employment to negotiate a weaker sanction. Escape from trial also allows the fraudster to avoid inflating his case with new documents that could be brought to the case during the course of the judicial proceedings. Article 9 therefore greatly reduces the scope of the Bercy lock measures. We will ask for its deletion. As for Article 9a, it extends to tax fraud and related offences the scope of the judicial convention in the public interest created under François Hollande, which today concerns only the laundering of tax fraud. But it's the opposite of what we're looking for! I recall that the first of these agreements concerned HSBC, which was imposed a penalty of 300 million euros when it owed 1.6 billion euros... In other words, when you take a burglar, you get him a very small part of his loot and you allow him to continue! It's unbearable. This possibility of transaction should not be extended. I note, moreover, that in the United States, for more or less similar facts, HSBC had to repay all the amounts resulting from the fraud, plus one hell of a penalty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u16	Mr President, there is a burning smell in the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u17	[[Smile]] Unsuspecting France sets the fire!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u18	[[Smile]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u19	Work is taking place near the Chamber, perhaps they are the ones involved. You can continue, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. These Articles 9 and 9a are therefore totally contradictory to the objective of combating tax fraud. They weaken the deterrent effect of a trial, and are the main reason why we are asking for this text to be referred back to committee. We will not be able to vote on this text if it contains these two articles. Before concluding, I would like to thank the associations working on tax fraud and evasion, which are quite critical of this bill, including Oxfam, which during several hearings has proposed interesting avenues, and ATTAC, which is currently conducting a campaign entitled "Not with our money! I regret here that non-violent actions have led to arrests of activists this weekend. In conclusion, I would say that this law may prove useful if it is amended in the right direction, but it will not be useful as long as we remain within the framework of the European treaties. While Article 93 of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community provides that unanimity of the Member States is necessary to prevent tax optimisation, Article 114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union allows one of the Member States to disobey and organise tax fraud, while remaining within the Union. We are sending a terrible message to businesses, as well as to the richest of our fellow citizens. With these provisions, the European Union appears to be a Trojan horse, allowing tax optimisation on a very large scale. These treaties, this tax non-harmonisation, this competition between the various taxes also, unfortunately, allow a race at least so-called tax. On average, between 2010 and 2016, European countries decreased their corporate tax rate by more than a quarter, from over 32% to 23%. I would also point out that, in the debate on the last draft of the finance law, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance had explained that one of the reasons why corporate tax in France should be reduced was precisely to be able to continue to compete with other European Union states. There is indeed a race at least so-called, which is a major problem because these taxes do not deplete the entire community, while limiting the sharing of wealth. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Until a global break with this tax dumping has taken place, as long as this policy that has led you to grant €9 billion in tax gifts to the richest will be in force – tax evasion will soon be no longer necessary, because the rich will pay so few taxes that the best way to fraud will simply be to obey the law! –, any bill such as this one, despite some progress, will unfortunately only be a rustin on a flat tire.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u22	Information will reassure all present at this session: it is the stone carving above the salons that is so fragrant. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u23	Mr Coquerel's remarks are for the most part arguments of opinion, political arguments which are respectable in themselves, but which do not seem to me to deserve referral back to committee. As the rapporteur and the Chairman of the Finance Committee will probably have the opportunity to say, we have done a great deal of work on this bill, both in the Committee on Legislation and in the Committee on Finance. The method adopted was the best: more than a year ago, the guard of the seals made a commitment that an information mission would be organized, including, but not limited to, Bercy's lock. She had also promised a second mission, which was the object of Mrs Peyrol's work. And a very constructive work has taken place in committee on this bill. I therefore do not believe that the referral to committee is relevant. We will certainly have the opportunity to come back during the debate on some of the political arguments put forward by Mr Coquerel. But I have noted in his remarks some inaccuracies, which I intend to correct, if he allows me. Perhaps he will be reassured to know – as I have already said several times – that, in the finance bill that I will introduce, at the request of the President of the Republic, it is planned to recruit 700 customs officers in the next two years, including 350 in 2019 alone, in order to address the issues related to Brexit. So there is no question of deleting one customs officer a day, as you said a little bit easily, Mr Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u24	I was talking about the past!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u25	You said, "We remove one customsman a day! " I'm not an accountant for past wanderings. If you have any criticisms to make, do not hesitate to address them to whom according to law. But since Emmanuel Macron was elected President of the Republic, no, we haven't removed one customs officer a day! As far as fiscal control is concerned, – we could talk about it at length, but that is not exactly what is at stake here – Mr Coquerel, you are acting as if it were possible to imagine situations independently of the right to error, which has been adopted here collectively – even if you have fought it, and that is a point that differentiates us. In order to establish this relationship of trust that we want between the tax administration and taxpayers, especially businesses, for whom it is important to have a tax guarantee – a relationship inspired by what exists in England and the Netherlands – the text of an order is being drafted. Of course, the discussions involve parliamentarians, as well as all public finance officers and business representatives. The customs model you mentioned is how to build this relationship of trust, in particular so that tax services can concentrate on the biggest fraudsters, who demand more energy. With all due respect, Mr. Coquerel, I think you have a "paternity" view of fiscal control. It's not just by putting policemen on the street that we stop delinquency! If that were true, the police officers in France would know for a long time! Our country was lagging behind, which the previous government began to fill somewhat. We hope to finish filling it in the coming years, especially because computer credits will no longer be considered as adjustment variables for the Directorate-General for Public Finance and also because the data lakes, algorithms, artificial intelligence will allow us to reach the big fraudsters – even the most combative unions of the DGFIP recognise it – the very ones you and we are trying to fight, even if you do not fully trust the Government on this point, Mr Coquerel. Finally, last inaccuracy: contrary to what I have heard, the tax police will not draw on the staff of the National Brigade for the Suppression of Fiscal Crime. The agents of this brigade will not be redeployed. I will certainly have the opportunity to repeat the figures and the commitments I will make on the bench, probably at the request of the rapporteur. [[Smile]] For all these reasons, both in substance and in form, I encourage the House to refuse referral to committee, to begin the general discussion and, before theatre burns, Mr President, to move on to the discussion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u26	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u27	We are all pursuing the same goal of combating tax optimisation. You say, Mr Coquerel, that Mrs Peyrol's report contains some interesting provisions. The Finance Committee, anticipating the tabling of this report, has already taken up certain measures in this bill. Others may be considered in the finance bill. I regret that a bill that is moving in a step is being refused, on the grounds that it is not going to the end of the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u29	I remind you, Mr Coquerel, that a series of negotiations has been under way since 2012. For example, the OECD, supported by the G20, is carrying out a project on the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, known as BEPS – the base erosion and profit shocking – which has resulted in, among other things, a multilateral tax convention, which we have allowed to be ratified and which overlaps with bilateral tax treaties. This BEPS agreement deals in particular with the transfer pricing issue, which you have raised. The rule of charging goods and services at market prices has existed since the dawn of time. In some situations, however, it is extremely difficult to determine the market price. Thus, when companies, such as Google or IKEA, exercise a monopoly, it is very difficult to find comparable goods and services. Solutions have been proposed at the BEPS site to facilitate the control of transfer prices. The OECD has therefore done important work. We can also thank Pascal Saint-Amans, for the pugnacity he has shown since 2012 on this site. As far as the European Union is concerned, several directives have already been adopted, in particular on bank transparency or data exchange. Others will be in the near future, in particular the one on the transmission of optimisation schemes or the one on VAT, which is being finalized. The symbolic dimension of tax havens should not hide the practical tools of general taxation under common law that must be implemented. We will have the opportunity to talk again about this very interesting VAT directive, especially when we talk about digital platforms. I understand your impatience, Mr. Coquerel, and I can share it. As you know, I have spent my entire career fighting against these optimisation schemes, but I find it strange to wish to refer to the committee a text which marks a step forward. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Each text brings a stone to the building of the fight against optimisation and fraud. These two areas, which are now very complex, require multiple tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u31	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee. Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u32	In the continuity of Émilie Cariou's remarks, I note in my turn that the work in committee and beyond, particularly intense, was largely transversal and allowed to overcome the divisions between our groups. I recognize that he started with the work that Mr Fabien Roussel has done, well upstream, on tax havens. It is because there has been this continuity and the many debates that this text represents a step forward. We need to step by step. But today, these are real steps we are taking. Having welcomed the quality of the work, our group therefore wishes to continue the work in session. We will not vote on this motion for referral back to committee because some matters still need to be discussed. Without developing our themes at this moment, it is in session that we wish to discuss everything that will strengthen sanctions and make them more effective, improve the coherence between anti-fraud mechanisms and increase the number of strike forces. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] That is why we will not vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u33	The next speaker is Mr Charles de Courson, for the IDU Group, Acting and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u34	Our group will vote against the referral back to committee. Mr Coquerel, you have deplored that we are not going far enough from the international point of view. But, Mr Coquerel, you who are for proletarian internationalism, you should be in favour of tax internationalism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u35	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u36	As you can see, the fight against tax fraud within a purely national framework is faced with daunting obstacles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u37	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is why we must be pro-European, otherwise we will never succeed! Working in the European framework would be even better than working in the OECD. This is progressing. It's slow. It's hard. Mr Coquerel, you are surprised by two articles of the European Treaties. But everyone knows that these provisions have been imposed by some states, which everyone knows – Luxembourg, in particular – who especially do not want the rule of unanimity. However, it seems that, under pressure, these states are beginning to evolve. On the day when the other states apply the American methods in the European Union, we will move much faster. By "American methods", I intend to go so far as to break certain links, particularly financial ones, with the recalcitrant states. This is really about getting your feet in the plate! It must be recognised that it is thanks to the Americans, and alas, not to the great countries of the European Union, that we have succeeded in the Swiss affair. As you know, on the second point you raised, that of pleading guilty and of court agreements in the public interest, I too have expressed some reluctance. I'll come back. However, this text is in the right direction, allowing progress to be made. Let us be resolutely reformers, Mr Coquerel, and vote against the referral back to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u39	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u40	The Socialist and Related Group will not vote at the outset on this motion to refer the matter back to committee, even if we are attentive to the relevant comments made by our colleague Éric Coquerel, by the La France insoumée group, and to his argument that we share. Attentive, we were in the debate in the Finance Committee last July. Are we, however, satisfied? Not completely, even though we should pay tribute to the work of our rapporteur, Émilie Cariou, as part of her fact-finding mission. If the work is not done, we are still moving forward. We count on these three days of debate to strengthen the text, in particular through the thirty-two amendments we have tabled, as in Article 7, in order to improve the mechanisms for punishing third-party accomplices of fraud, or in Article 13, in order to effectively and effectively remove Bercy's lock. The Socialist and Related Group considers that Article 13 in its wording, which emerged from the work of the Committee, does not represent a step forward. On the contrary, the text, whose terms are ambiguous, actually leads us, as in trompe l'oeil, to a double lock from Bercy. We shall return to this point in the debates. After these three days of debate, we also hope to be reassured about the link between the new Bercy tax policy and the existing services – this is essential for real efficiency. Let's not go into the police war! Finally, we will be paying attention to the budget debate. We hope for commitments by the Government on means, so as to give concrete expression to its attention. In conclusion, if we consider that a referral to committee is not necessary, we hope, on the other hand, to listen carefully to our proposals and our questions, in order to move forward together. However, we remain attentive to our colleague's proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u41	Mrs Sabine Rubin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u42	Although this bill proposes some progress, which we have recognized, on some fronts – I will have the opportunity to come back to it – it remains very timid in terms of the ambitions that everyone has here. There is indeed a blind spot, tax evasion. Therefore, why not refer this text back to committee – because it is a referral, not a rejection – in order to be able to incorporate the conclusions of the report on tax evasion? We find it unfortunate that we want to adopt a large law on tax fraud, without incorporating the conclusions of such a report. Furthermore, as Éric Coquerel made very clear, the advances on Bercy's lock, which we have recognized, are completely swept away by sections 9 and 9 bis of the bill. Why? Because the biggest fraudsters will be able to negotiate to avoid legal proceedings. If it does more, this bill does not deter large fraudsters from doing so. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It would therefore be welcome to reconsider that question. That is why a referral to committee, not a rejection of the bill, could enable the bill to effectively combat tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u43	Mr Fabien Roussel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u44	[[Smile]] Please excuse my voice, ladies and gentlemen, but I lost it at the Humanity Day. I have lost my voice, but not faith – I assure you, minister. It is clear from these three days of exceptional celebration, certainly the most political and popular in France – 800,000 visitors and almost a hundred debates – that on all the topics discussed – health, public services, transport, housing – the same questions come up: where to find the money? How to finance? Why is it so difficult? Why austerity policies? Inevitably, the question of money diverted through tax evasion and evasion ensues. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I moderated a debate, in which our colleague Émilie Cariou and the president of Oxfam France, friendly, courteous and respectful about the issues at stake in this bill. On that occasion, I argued that we could not agree with the whole text because it does not go far enough. We welcome the progress that it entails – we have something to do with it, such as journalists, whistleblowers and Members of Parliament, on the right and on the left, who led the fighting, especially against Bercy's lock. But tax fraudsters, white-collar offenders have taken such a step forward and are so strong at all levels that we cannot settle for meagre progress. We need to go much further and hit much harder. That is why we support the referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u45	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor for the La République on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u46	Here we have an emblematic text. The draft law on the fight against fraud is one of those few texts that transcend political divisions, as it concerns the core of our system of collective solidarity, namely taxation, in the Chamber and in the territories. Consent to tax, the latter being the ultimate means of achieving the common good, is constantly tested by fraud, which is the very negation of our republican pact. This is the time for all of us to put forward a clear position on the fight against fraud, which, I would remind you, is one of the priorities of this Parliament. This bill focuses as much on strengthening the detection of fraud, through the exchange of information, as on extending the prerogatives of the customs services or defining more appropriate tax sanctions. There may be more to do, including in the European and international context, but the effort made in this bill is unprecedented in its ambition and in the progress made. As the minister and others have done, I will remind Mr.Coquerel that extensive work has been done as part of the fact-finding mission, several of which are included in the bill. The information mission on tax optimisation and avoidance also issued a report, and contrary to what you said, some of its recommendations have also been incorporated into this bill – Benedict Peyrol will be able to refresh your memory. The Committee on Finance, of the two hundred amendments tabled, has adopted eighty amendments from all groups, including France, which is incontrovertible – I am thinking in particular of the article; it unanimously voted the text minus two abstentions – a highlight that we all remember. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In view of this very serious work in which everyone has been able to speak, whether in the committee or in the fact-finding missions, there is no reason to refer the text back to committee, especially since fraud is not waiting and the procedures to combat it must be put in place quickly. We therefore support what the rapporteur has called a step, which I will call a big step, and we will vote against the referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u47	Mrs Brigitte Kuster, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u48	This bill, which provides for various measures to combat fraud and deter potential fraudsters, goes in the right direction – Eric Woerth pointed out. It complements the progress of recent years, which have been initiated under the quinquennium of Nicolas Sarkozy, which, of course, Minister, had not escaped you. You are therefore in line with the decisions to which we adhere. I am thinking mainly of the removal of Bercy's lock, but also of the amendments proposed by our honourable senators – for example, the fight against tobacco trafficking or the extension of the judicial convention in the public interest to tax fraud – as many advances as we hope to see maintained. The Republican Group will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u49	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u50	[[Smile]] Mr. Ciotti heard the word "police," so he came in, but it's a tax police!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u51	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u52	I am very honoured to open this discussion. I will begin, as usual, with thanks. These thanks go first to the rapporteur, who has done a considerable amount of work, first on Bercy's lock in the information mission for which she was rapporteur, and then on the whole of this bill. I would also like to thank the minister. The press echoed fears that the work on Bercy's lock would remain unanswered, but the minister made decisive progress. My thanks also go to the groups, in particular Mr Coquerel's. I am struck to see in this Chamber of the Mister Hyde, who often call – as is not the case with Mr Coquerel today – and propose breaks while in committee they work cooperatively and positively. I must say that on this bill – on Bercy's lock, but not just – cooperation between all groups has been extremely satisfactory. My last thanks will go to the Senate, which has made a fantastic, extremely interesting report. We do not follow their opinion on all the points – the rapporteur recalled that we were taking about half of them. I want to tell our friends in the Senate that we respect them and their work. They are colleagues who deserve to be respected as fundamental actors of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u54	So, how do you get into this huge file? This bill is under the sign of "supervising and punishing". It is about better information and more punishment. We will examine in detail all the provisions aimed at achieving this objective. But the main aim of this text is to improve cooperation: between the institutions, but also between the administrative services, in particular between the judiciary and the tax administration. We must welcome this positive, cooperative approach, which also applies to taxpayers. I do not agree at all with Mr Coquerel's comments on the guilty plea. It is a very good thing to reach an amicable agreement to return to the path of legality. One of the key points that we need to address is the tax policy. In this respect, we are divided between two temptations: on the one hand, the redundancy that has been denounced by the Council of State and by the Senate – two parallel administrations, a risk of police war, a lack of cooperation; of the other, proximity and emulation. We have been very hesitant and we are not sure whether we can reach the goal when we move away from the position of the Senate. But we trust the Government, which has assured us of the lack of competition between the services and of the division of labour among them, as well as of the execution under the authority of the judiciary and not of the services. Minister, this is an issue on which we will be very vigilant, and we know that you will be very vigilant as well. The impact of the provisions that we have voted on will have to be studied in detail. Bercy's lock is still the big piece. The proposed changes are very interesting to us as they are an entirely positive sum game. It is a triple liberation that is proposed to us: a release of the judicial authority that escapes what it could feel since 1920 – it is an old case – as a guardianship even though it is not one. The guarantee is given that the cases of which she would have to know will be transmitted to her without any administrative blockage; release of Parliament, which is fully responsible for defining the criteria for increasing the referral to the judicial authority; and even the release of the tax administration, which, independently of these criteria, may, where it considers it necessary, refer cases to the judicial authority through the commission. On the other hand, we did not follow the Senate on the urgent preliminary hearing by the tax judge in advance of public action. Why? Because, as Bonaparte said, it is better to have a bad general than two good ones: two judges – a judicial judge and a tax judge – who walk on their feet, it is very bad. We also considered that this procedure would not be in favour of proper time management. With regard to VAT fraud, we did not follow the Senate while recognizing the high quality of its proposals for a simple reason: if we had done so, we would have arrived both too early and too late. Too soon, because the directive that was adopted in December 2017 will govern this matter. We would therefore have to come up with solutions which will subsequently be so. Too late, because the provisions that we would have adopted would obviously be contradicted or profoundly modified by the transposition texts of this directive. A word about tax havens. Minister, this is the poor parent of your bill, but you can't help it because tax havens cannot be decided in France – this is an international matter. And I agree with what Mr de Courson said a moment ago when he stigmatised Mr Coquerel's position: how can we be both against tax havens and restrictive when it comes to extending the European Union's powers in tax matters? That is what you have told us, Mr Coquerel, since you have found the principle of unanimity in tax matters "inadmissible". In this case, my dear colleague, please refer to Mr Mélenchon's constant speech on national sovereignty! I ask you only one thing: cease to plead, on equal days, for the complete sovereignty of the French State and the refusal of any transfer of competence and, on odd days, for the contrary! Please put your ulterior thoughts in line with your thoughts! It'll be a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u56	That's not it! Listen to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u57	In conclusion, minister, all of this leaves us with a rather disturbing impression, because we see that whatever your efforts, whatever the merits of your text, as amended by the Senate and this House, are not there. And if that is the case, it is first of all for the following reason: if there are tax havens, it is because France remains, in many respects, a tax hell. It remains the country where too many taxes are paid. What is more, our tax system is completely dismantled: there are no more local taxes: income tax tends to become residual; Some levies that do not even have the name of taxes, such as the CSG, provide a large proportion of public resources. You need to rethink in depth the levying system, combine the proportionality towards which we go with new modes of progressivity, such as, for example, a universal income supplement, which you should look at if you really want to renew the matter. Finally, you must control public spending. But we do not see that you are doing it. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] Finally, there is Europe! Ladies and gentlemen, stop being anti-European one day and pro-European the next day! Everything we are debating can only be solved by a supplement from Europe! Let us know, as we approach the big deadline for the European elections!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u58	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u59	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the UDI Group, I would like first of all to thank the rapporteur, Émilie Cariou, for the quality of her work, as well as all our colleagues from all the groups that have worked in the joint information mission on Bercy's lock, but also in the Committee on Finance in the context of the examination of this text. It is not so common, ladies and gentlemen, for parliamentarians to feel that they have been a little useful! It is true that you have shown openness, Minister. I had a few fears, because all your predecessors I have known over the last 25 years have hung on to Bercy's lock, including your right-wing neighbour, the current Chairman of the Finance Committee. So I want to congratulate him, because it's a sign of intelligence...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u60	He's evolved to my contact!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u61	...to have gradually converted and to have ended up saying that we had to reform Bercy's lock!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u62	A little forced and forced...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u63	A little coerced, perhaps, Mr President, but the minds have evolved as a result of all the very precise work we have carried out, which has shown that the scheme is untenable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u64	[[Smile]] Mr. Woerth is on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u65	I would therefore like to thank all the colleagues, including those from La France insoumée, who participated in this work. In the face of the threat to the Republican Pact and the social contract of fraud, this bill aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of the fight against fraud, whether it be fiscal, customs or even social, goes in the right direction, in particular on Bercy's lock, on the detection of fraud or on the question of the tax police. Nevertheless, we remain reserved with regard to judicial agreements in the public interest and the procedure to plead guilty. On the development of the so-called Bercy lock system, after the mobilisation of Members from all sides a year ago, we are very pleased – I am particularly pleased, because I have been sitting in this House for 25 years and have been fighting for years in total loss to reform or even abolish it – that the rapporteur's amendment has led to a balanced solution that reinforces the prerogatives of the justice system in initiating proceedings against tax fraud offences. Thanks in particular to Laurence Vichnievsky, we have contributed to the improvement of the system by setting, in the law, the threshold of 100,000 euros of penalties for the automatic transmission of files to the prosecutor's office. All the political groups of the National Assembly converged to clean up a system of criminal prosecution of tax fraud dating back to the 1920s, was subject to the requirement of a prior complaint and, since 1977, to the assent of the Commission on Tax Offences. We would like to point out that, on this subject, Parliament, its work and its rights have been respected – it is so rare... Nevertheless, we would have liked the solution to go to the end, that is to say, to the abolition of the Tax Offences Commission. In the current system, I would remind you that it barely blocks 4% of the files entrusted to it. Under the new legislation, it will no longer serve much, as it will block only a few very rare cases. One day, therefore, we will have to consider abolishing this procedure, which I think is very cumbersome. Secondly, this bill will also help to improve the detection of fraud through information exchange, which is excellent news. It will strengthen the prerogatives of the customs services. Sanctions will also be more dissuasive through the new reporting mechanisms for both administrative and criminal sanctions. The penalties for tax infringements linked to different financial arrangements will also be more dissuasive. In addition, the customs authorities will have strengthened capacity to combat tax smuggling, particularly against tobacco smuggling. Provisions have been introduced to this effect in the debates, but we could have gone further, Mr Minister. I would like to point out that there is a real problem of importing tobacco from Algeria. However, in this case, Minister, there is no need for the provisions of this text: the problem is more of a diplomatic action aimed at blocking these imports, which come mainly through the port of Marseille. With regard to the creation of a tax police attached to Bercy, we do not believe that this will lead to a "service war" with the BNRDF, the national brigade for the suppression of fiscal crime, which is attached to the Ministry of the Interior. On the contrary, I think that the judges will know exactly what service to deal with according to the nature of the cases; They are already doing so in other areas. It is the pooling of different competences, between tax and judicial services, that will improve the effectiveness of the fight against tax fraud. Another important topic raised by many colleagues is the platforms and their taxation. As you can see, the current system is not working. There are a wide variety of economic situations, and we need to adapt our taxation to ensure equity between companies, on the one hand, and between citizens, on the other hand, while supporting French start-ups in order to avoid a phenomenon of eviction of users to platforms established abroad, far less respectful of the rule of law. We will therefore carefully consider the solutions to be proposed in article 4 by the Government and the rapporteur in open session. On this broader issue of the digitisation of the economy, we have been advocating for European harmonisation for many years. That is the meaning of the proposals put forward by our colleagues Bénédicte Peyrol and Jean-François Parigi in their report. We support them, in particular with regard to the draft common consolidated corporate tax base, ACCIS, presented by the European Commission, and the concept of virtual permanent establishment. In order to avoid any ambiguity with regard to these platforms, it is necessary to distinguish clearly those which bring together an offer and a demand without giving rise to any enrichment, for example BlaBlaCar, from those which may possibly result in enrichment of one of the parties, for example Airbnb – those who use it to rent their property realize a profit, a fortiori if they do so in a systematic way. We also welcome the adoption of the name andshame procedure, which we had suggested. It was extended to natural persons through an amendment by our colleague Éric Coquerel. In a lighter tone, minister, do you not think that it would be time to put this name and shame in place if ministers did not respond to parliamentarians' written questions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u66	Bravo, Monsieur de Courson!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u67	It'd be fun enough... You are not concerned, minister; I speak of "the" ministers, plural. Having distributed all these good points, if I may say so, I now turn to the two points of divergence that we have on this text: we consider that the extension of judicial agreements in the public interest and the so-called guilty plea procedure in tax fraud pose risks of slipping. The extension to tax fraud of the procedure of appearance on prior recognition of guilt, the CRPC, still known as a guilty plea, may lead to a weakening of the criminal repression of fraud. Contrary to what is provided for in the ordinary law, namely that all offences or crimes are subject to justice, criminal proceedings for tax evasion concern only the most serious acts. However, the CPMR procedure is not seriously conceivable for such facts. In addition, tax evasion is detrimental to the community as a whole, whereas this is not always the case in a conflict between two private individuals. In this respect, I have a point of divergence with Mr Woerth: I do not think that proper tax collection is the number one priority, as he said during his speech. Fiscal productivity is, of course, a criterion in the fight against tax fraud, but it must come second in relation to the duty of exemplaryness. Because, otherwise, what will we say? That there is, once again, justice for the rich or the powerful and justice for the poor – I will not say "the wretched", because they are not involved in these matters – or, let's say, justice for the big fish, on the one hand, and justice for the small and medium fish, on the other, which would not be a good thing for the political balance of our country. The same problem arises with regard to the possibility of resorting to public-interest judicial agreements in the field of tax evasion: there is a high risk of a two-speed justice system. The biggest will plead guilty, because their concern is to avoid not the payment of heavy fines, but the deterioration of their image in a long and detailed public trial. Of course, there are protections – heavy fines, publication of the names of the legal persons involved, tax relief... – but these measures are devoid of the exemplary nature of the criminal sanction. The arguments which we were opposed in the committee's examination of the means of justice, the speeding up of procedures or the revenue generated are hardly acceptable from the point of view of social cohesion. The equality of all citizens before the law must prevail over all other considerations. In conclusion, I would point out that major fraud is international fraud, organised and designed to evade taxes on a large scale. In the face of this scourge, ladies and gentlemen, the solution can only be international and multilateral. We need European coordination, at least, or within the OECD, even though there are currently cases of misapplication of the data exchange system, notably between France and the United States under the FATCA – Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. In that regard, the Government must continue its efforts to achieve further progress in the coming years. As you can see, our points of convergence are far more numerous than our reservations. For all the reasons I have just mentioned and as it stands, we will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u68	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u69	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting to examine the bill to combat fraud, and that is obviously a good thing. In this you continue the work undertaken by previous governments, especially those of François Hollande. Indeed, between 2012 and 2017, two important laws were passed – my colleague Valérie Rabault will go back in detail on the current arrangements. There are two components to this bill. The first is aimed at improving the means to combat fraud, with the strengthening of customs powers, the facilitation of exchanges between administrations or better supervision of platform-related practices. The Socialist and Related Group will propose some amendments to go even further. We will also make proposals on the second part, which aims to strengthen sanctions against fraud. Mr Minister, we will in particular have a debate, as in the Finance Committee, on Article 7, which provides for sanctions against partners and taxpayers' councils, in order to empower them. This provision is necessary, but I regret that the scope of potential third parties is also limited: your provision only applies to the advice of fraudsters who, as a penalty, have received an 80% increase in their tax and therefore exclude tax fraud cases that have been penalized by 40%. We will have the opportunity to defend a new amendment to extend the scheme to include third-party accomplices of fraudsters with a 40% increase for deliberate breach. As far as tax havens are concerned, their list is too narrow, if I may say so. It is time for our country to resume the offensive, because the European Union is, on this and on many others, powerless to take control of things. I had quoted the figures of the sums placed in tax havens. I would like to repeat them from this rostrum. Some economists talk about 350 billion euros of evaporated revenue worldwide. The OECD estimates a range of 100 to 240 billion, when the United Nations estimates the amounts involved at 600 billion. Whatever the figure, the amounts reach hundreds of billions of euros, which is absolutely unacceptable and of course shocking. The existence of these tax havens undermines the confidence of our fellow citizens in their governments and in democracy. In order not to fix anything, many tax havens are housed within the European Union itself: Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands or Malta to name just a few. You have accepted in committee an amendment common to several groups, including the Socialist and Related Group, which aims not to exclude European States from this list as a matter of principle. Madam rapporteur, thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have European elections in nine months' time, and this House would be wrong not to take this problem in arms: we must be uncompromising on this subject, including with our European neighbours. I now come to the point that focuses the attention of the public: Bercy's lock, which is dealt with in Article 13. I begin, as I did in committee, by thanking Émilie Cariou, who, through the fact-finding mission of which she was the rapporteur, put this subject on the table. This Bercy lock was introduced at a time when the administration was considered too intrusive, there were too many prosecutions and there was a need to protect the taxpayer. Since then, the context has changed and the perception of insufficient criminalization of fraud does exist in public opinion. The monopoly of Bercy's lock, the exception to the general rule of law, is no longer justified. The Government and the majority want to relax it, but we are concerned that the article you are proposing will strengthen it in fact. In the debate on Article 13, I will have the opportunity to explain this in more detail. The Socialist and Related Group therefore proposes two amendments aimed at deleting it and, if they are not adopted, several back-up amendments. Finally, our group considers it a good thing to have a new anti-fraud department attached to Bercy, but once again, Minister, I would ask you to confirm that this will not be a redeployment of staff, but a new means dedicated to the fight against fraud. Under this reserve, you will have our full support. The tax is consubstantial to the Republic. It finances quality local or national public services to which the French are very attached: hospitals, security, justice, education or assistance to the poorest. To fight against tax evasion, optimisation and fraud is an imperative and we will accompany you in this fight, even if we regret that this text is still very timid. We also hope that the excellent report by our colleague Bénédicte Peyrol will not remain a dead letter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u71	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u72	Mr President, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee – who has apparently been absent –, ladies and gentlemen, to fight against tax fraud: this is a bill that we can only rejoice at. We agree with what you said on this subject, Minister: "France is not doing enough to recover the money that should be in the state coffers". We also agree with Bruno Le Maire, who says he is "revolted by tax evasion because it ruins consent to tax," although this bill – we will come back – does not deal with tax evasion. Tax evasion represents, according to the commonly accepted range, which we have already mentioned, between 80 and 100 billion shortfalls for the state. It would cost each of our fellow citizens 136 euros a month. When you measure what this represents, you are surprised that you did not submit this bill to national representation as soon as you arrived. In a few weeks, we will be working on the 2019 Finance Bill. In view of the poor performance of the Government's economic policy, recovering even $20 billion would not have been a luxury. This would have allowed, while respecting the divine rule of 3%, to respond to certain emergencies in the fields of public health, the environment, the police, justice and even education. Thus, the anticipated 800 million increase in national education would not be combined with the abolition of 1800 posts. However, it is never too late to act more firmly with white-collar offenders. Like 75% of the French, according to an Odoxa poll in 2017, we believe that tax evasion is not sufficiently punished, despite the measures already taken. There is indeed a gap between the firmness of the principled convictions against fraudsters, which we have mentioned, and the scarcity of sanctions. Is your law going to make real progress on this crucial issue? Unfortunately not enough to soothe the emes of all edges. By probity, however, let us note some progress, what is called the "small steps": the obligation for software publishers to provide source codes to combat the concealment of fraud; measures concerning collaborative platforms; Articles strengthening penalties for fraud or non-cooperation with customs, or those aimed at punishing intermediaries promoting tax fraud. We agree with all these measures, as we agree with the practice of name and shame for criminal or administrative sanctions. But these advances, which are often limited – as we will make known throughout the debate – do not end up with a real anti-fraud policy. Why? First of all, your apparent willingness to fight tax fraud is hampered by the texts you have previously adopted. I want to refer here to the law for a state at the service of a trust company – ESSOC – which limits the duration of intervention of agents of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and the Suppression of Frauds – DGCCRF – or of the Union for the Collection of Social Security Contributions and Family Allowances – USSRAF – in companies, thus the chances of apprehending fraudsters. I also want to talk about the law on the protection of business secrecy, which allows for the condemnation of employees who would alert justice to the fraudulent practices of their company. On the other hand, some of the measures you present as advances are only a vast smoke. Frankly! I am thinking of the one on the so-called tax police, which ultimately consists only of transferring officials and police powers from Beauvau to Bercy. The reality is that tax control services have lost 3100 full-time equivalents since 2010. It is also that digital tools – this is what the unions say – can only complement and not replace human action. I am also thinking of Bercy's lock: if it is not completely open, a first turn of the key was given after the work in committee, to which we have contributed a great deal. We welcome this and I thank those who have mentioned our contribution. But what is the purpose of this work if, at the same time, to take over your consecrated formula, you replace Bercy's lock with another lock, Vendôme's? Indeed, the prior recognition of guilt provided for in article 9, the famous guilty plea, allows the fraudsters prosecuted in criminal proceedings and willing to acknowledge their wrongs to avoid a public trial by accepting the penalty proposed by the public prosecutor. In this way, a multinational company will be able to easily use blackmail to negotiate indirectly – through a battery of legal advisers – a lighter sanction with the Ministry of Justice. Such practices on the part of companies such as Continental, Goodyear, General Motors or Renault have been observed in the past. They prevented the Government from reforming or forced it to accept devastating social plans. In the same vein, what is the point of being able to pass on the most serious mistakes to the prosecutor if you extend at the same time the judicial convention in the public interest to offences of tax evasion? It is well known that banks like HSBC or Société Générale prefer to pay fines – which are provided for in their financial scheme – rather than to go to court. In doing so, you do nothing to deter them from fraud, absolutely nothing. Articles 9 and 9 bis therefore marked the progress of this text. They allow the powerful to escape the justice that applies to other taxpayers. Finally, Mr Minister, I have already mentioned that nothing in this text concerns tax evasion. Why didn't you wait for the very rich conclusions of the commission's report to complete the bill? According to economist Gabriel Zucman, "on a global scale, more than 40% of the profits made by multinationals are artificially relocated to tax havens and 8% of the financial wealth of individuals is hidden there." This tax evasion destroys the environment: 68% of foreign capital invested in deforestation of the Amazonian forest has passed through tax havens; 70% of fishing vessels involved in overfishing are registered in tax havens. You don't seem to have understood the urgency of the situation. With these billions of lost profits for the state, we could – as Members of the La France group often suggest – finance the massive investment plan to deal with social and environmental emergencies. However, the bill's proposals on tax evasion are more than timorous. Of course, you are including the European Union in our list of tax havens, as requested by the Council of the European Union. However, it does not take into account the tax havens that are Ireland, Luxembourg or Malta, which you know well. They are the ones that prevent you from carrying out your tax reform, since the Treaties do not allow this harmonisation. And we repeat that we are not responsible for these treaties, which has nothing to do with I do not know what anti-Europeanism. It is not pessimistic to bet on the failure of the ongoing negotiations to carry out this reform. It's being realistic. We therefore propose by way of amendments that we act unilaterally this week to recover what the multinationals owe to us all. The first is to create a "hidden permanent establishment" concept for non-resident businesses with ongoing digital activity in our territory. If they refuse to pay, we will make a 26% withholding on payments made by domestic customers to this company. Secondly, it is a question of introducing a 10% tax on GAFA turnover, as Italy and Slovakia have already done, in order to show our European partners the way. With these simple measures, which are also included in the report on tax optimisation drawn up by our colleagues in the majority, we will already be able to recover part of this large-scale flight. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, we are very dissatisfied with the measures proposed by the text. That is the meaning of the motion for referral to committee that we have defended. Now our vote will be conditional on the deletion of Articles 9 and 9a, as well as on taking into account our urgent proposals on tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u73	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u74	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 5 August last the Swiss administrative court refused to transmit to the French authorities the data of several thousand French taxpayers of the UBS bank suspected of being tax domiciled in Switzerland. What was the reason put forward by the court? "The mere fact of holding a bank account in Switzerland is not enough. However, the Swiss bank UBS, even if it contests the charges, is still under judicial procedure in France for illegal trading and aggravated money laundering of tax fraud, and this is not a first. A great cheese country, Switzerland remains mainly that of well-kept safes, despite the introduction of automatic exchange of information procedures. The detailed balance sheet of the wealth held today in the Confederation, in the absence of the identity of the beneficiaries, including rich French taxpayers, has enough to give rise to the vertigo: more than 2100 billion euros belong to non-residents, that is almost the GDP of France. Escape, optimisation or tax fraud: the shade nests in the thickness of a prison wall. The fraudsters have to go! Since 2008, banks have paid $321 billion in fines, and you won't find a leader behind bars! In any case, we find this opacity that betrays those who do not have a quiet conscience. What if we were talking about "missing wealth of nations"? The figures can always be discussed, but the accumulation of scandals and revelations help to create a true picture of the global tax cheat. The amount of assets held in tax havens would now reach €7900 billion. This is the reality of the phenomenon, as described by economists, associations and whistleblowers, on the basis of all the existing statistical data and, for some, close cooperation with tax administrations. Multinational corporations are now moving a considerable portion of their profits to Bermuda, Luxembourg and other Cayman Islands. In short, I would say that tax evasion is at the heart of the nuclear reactor of fraud. It is she who siphons our revenues, endangers public policies and destroys the social pact by bypassing the principle of consent to tax. In such a context, your law, despite some interesting advances, holds more from the wet firecracker than from the charge to the promised cannon. Of course, it is at the end of the ball that the musicians are paid, but there is still a lot of work to be able to live up to the stakes. In terms of progress, there is obviously the relaxation of Bercy's lock. Bravo to Émilie Cariou but why not blow him up completely? As it stands, less than half of the 4800 largest tax fraud cases, those that exceed the EUR 100,000 threshold and have received the highest increases, would automatically be referred to the courts. Oh, my God! But the other large files, as well as the so-called "repressive" 10200 files, would remain subject to the assessment of the tax administration and the Tax Offences Commission. We're moving forward, of course, but as a revolution, frankly, we've seen better! Especially since there are no plans to associate the prosecution with the tax administration in the selection of cases. The Communist Members will make proposals to that effect. In fact, your bill, like what you're doing on the exit tax, is a step forward, a step backwards, a waltz-hesitancy. On the one hand, you plan to publish, by default, the names of the fraudsters. This is good, but on the other hand, you are extending to tax fraud the so-called guilty plea procedure, which most often allows the most powerful litigants to free themselves from a public trial. In short, they are still exempt from the prison box.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u75	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u76	Another example: is it logical to want to relax Bercy's lock and at the same time to further expand the judicial convention in the public interest, which was introduced under the Sapin 2 law? My colleague pointed out that it was this measure that allowed HSBC, which was called into question in a case of money laundering of tax fraud, to avoid being convicted and to get away with a simple fine of EUR 300 million, a transaction which accounts for only 20% of the amounts involved. Finally, for us, your tax haven system is the heart of the matter. We are still going from a very far distance, but you simply propose that we add to the current French list the small blacklist of the European Union. With this, the greatest fraudsters on the planet will tremble, for sure! Do you know, minister, what country this flag corresponds to? No? It's Palau's who will be on this list! On the other hand, this one you know: it is that of Switzerland, which will not be included in it! This one is the American Samoa flag, which will be on your list, and this other one is Ireland, which will not be on it! That is the reality of this bill. I do not resist the pleasure of quoting the countries that will be covered by your law tomorrow: the lightning of the French tax and justice will fall on Botswana, Brunei, Guatemala, the Marshall Islands, Nauru, Niue, Panama, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, Namibia, Samoa, American Samoa, Trinidad and Tobago and Palau. Palau, a dangerous haven of financial flibus, rich of some 21,000 inhabitants, five times smaller than your city of Tourcoing, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u77	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u78	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Palau, the only new country to be subject to the full sanctions provided for in your scheme! That's the reality! You're the one who chose to list only those countries! Out of curiosity, I sought to know the record of tax evasion in this so dreaded smuggling territory, as well as in Niue and Nauru. This is what the requested expert, Gabriel Zucman, professor of economics in California, told me: "There is no data because there is nothing significant happening in these territories." To use the formula of a former President of the Republic, "our house finances burns and we look elsewhere". We look elsewhere as the strong points of tax evasion are well identified. They are so well identified that according to many associations, including Oxfam, if the European Union objectively applied its criteria, thirty-five states and territories would deserve to be included on the list, of which of course Switzerland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Malta, or the famous small American state of Delaware, and the town of Wilmington: city of 71000 inhabitants famous for its two-storey building and its 285000 mailboxes, with the names of Apple, Google, American Airlines, Coca-Cola, General Electric, I pass and the best. How could your bill be credible when it goes so far from reality? What signal are you going to send to our fellow citizens about this European Union which asks the states and ourselves to tighten our belt but refuses to attack the well-known tax havens that siphon our budgets? The Member States of the European Union, which do not play the game of tax justice and which shamelessly steal the revenues of their neighbours, ours in this case, must be severely punished. On this point too, we will make proposals, in particular on the graduation of sanctions according to the territories. We will also take up many of the provisions contained in the tax haven bill that I defended in March. The fight against tax evasion and fraud deserves better than reform. It requires human resources in number, for customs, our courts, our tax services. It must be enshrined in the Constitution in the same way as the fight for climate change. It must also be the subject of international mobilization within the United Nations. We have already proposed twice the organisation of a tax COP. What awaits the President of the Republic, who spends a lot of time abroad, to demand such a conference? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] France must ask the United Nations to seize this scourge. To date, there is not a single service, not a single United Nations agent who attacks tax havens. As it stands, the device you are proposing to us is clearly insufficient. We have tabled fifty-one amendments, in line with the work we have been doing on the subject for years: count on us to defend them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u79	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u80	Tax evasion and evasion undermine our Republican pact. The money that eludes thus represents a loss of profits for the State even though it should be used to restore social justice and finance the structural reforms that our country needs. To fight against this fraudulent capture of wealth is to give oneself the means to better distribute them. It is action in favour of social cohesion. I welcome on behalf of the La République en Marche Group a text that makes sense. I want to stress three points. First, this bill is perfectly consistent with the overall coherence of our majority's efforts to free the economy and build confidence while effectively fighting abuse. This text illustrates our determination to remove the obstacles that hinder the action of our businesses and citizens. But this license doesn't mean let it happen. If we have to trust those who play the game of our Republican pact, we have to punish those who betray it by cheating. Secondly, this text is not a text of circumstance. The fight against tax fraud is a genuine political will of France. At the international level, our country has played a leading role in the negotiations of the BEPS multilateral tax convention. By going further than the other countries in ratifying this Convention, France encourages exemplaryness. At European level, France is at the heart of the negotiations, particularly on two issues: the establishment of the European list of tax havens and the taxation of GAFAs. At national level, this text expresses a genuine desire to step up the fight against all forms of tax, customs and social fraud. Parliament plays a major role in this fight. In one year, our colleague Bénédicte Peyrol has conducted a fact-finding mission on tax optimisation and avoidance and our colleague Émilie Cariou has conducted a joint fact-finding mission on procedures for the prosecution of tax offences. The text that is being studied today reflects some of their recommendations and it is wrong to say that it does not include measures to combat tax evasion. Finally, this bill is a fine example of the method that we have been implementing since the beginning of our mandate: co-construction. In addition to the work of the Finance Committee and the Law Committee, I would like to pay special tribute to the work done by Émilie Cariou, who was the rapporteur of the joint fact-finding mission, chaired by our colleague Eric Diard, on Bercy's lock, and who is also the rapporteur of this bill. The work on this text demonstrates high-quality collaboration between the Government and national representation. Minister, you have shown great confidence in the work of Parliament and a remarkable listening capacity. I would like to point out here that during the consideration of this bill in the Finance Committee in July, 200 amendments were examined and 87 amendments were adopted, or 40%, from all political groups, including France. This collective intelligence allowed us to obtain unanimity minus two abstentions. Although we can welcome this work of pragmatic and effective cooperation, we can only be convinced of the effectiveness of the text after an ex post evaluation of its impact. This bill has a clear objective: to combat fraudsters who deliberately violate the fundamental principles of equality before public office and consent to tax. It includes major advances in the prevention and suppression of fraud. It improves the detection of tax fraud, with the creation of a tax policy, the exchange of data between administrations; the transmission of information by taxpayers and collaborative economy platforms. It is not a question of taxing exceptional or occasional income but of detecting professionals who profit from the use of these platforms. It tightens the penalties by introducing the name and shame, revised criminal fines and an administrative sanction against intermediaries. It opens the possibility for the public prosecutor to initiate the so-called guilty plea procedure and to conclude a judicial agreement in the public interest. It is stepping up the fight against tax havens. It creates more transparency and collaboration between tax administration and justice where Bercy's lock was criticized for his opacity since its inception in 1920. I am glad that the majority of us have undertaken this work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This fight against tax fraud must go beyond political divisions. That is why I hope that a large majority will emerge to adopt this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u81	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u82	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, "We are more often deceived by mistrust than by trust," the Cardinal of Retz wrote in his Memoirs. This precept illustrates very well the philosophy behind the action taken by our majority for more than a year now: to create a society of trust. A society of trust – it will remind you of a few memories, minister – in which the administration is at the service of citizens and businesses: that is the meaning of the bill that we passed a few months ago. An additional stone brought to the building: the ESSOC law, for a state at the service of a society of trust, which inaugurated a profound transformation of the relationship between citizens and businesses with the administration. If error is human, error is today a right. We preferred correction and accompaniment to distrust and punishment because we believe in the good faith of users. In addition to the rigidity and complexity of the rules, we preferred simplification of procedures and the fight against regulatory zeal. However, all this, ladies and gentlemen, is only half the way. If we offer all the elements to forge a relationship of trust between the administration and the users, then the reciprocal must be total: a society in which citizens and businesses themselves trust their administration. It is therefore essential to put this bill in this context because it is the corollary of the principle of good faith: right to error for taxpayers, yes, but zero tolerance for tax fraudsters! Citizens and businesses must have confidence in the ability and willingness of the administration to track down and punish fraudulent manoeuvres. Panama papers, Paradisepapers, LuxLeaks, whether we talk about fraud or optimisation, aggressive or not, I agree with the words of Fabien Roussel and Éric Coquerel: we must not make any difference in condemning all the tax scandals that are based on complex, ingenious and extremely well organized international systems in which many actors are involved. Such scandals also testify to the difficulty experienced by state administrations in recovering taxes and controlling financial flows. Finally, they illustrate how crucial the question of the means of detection, deterrence and sanctioning of state systems is. Tax evasion is at the heart of our fundamental principles: consent to tax, a principle enshrined in article 14 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, is increasingly undermined. It is essential that we guarantee this because it is the basis of the social acceptability of taxation, the basis of the legality of taxation. It is also one of the founding principles of our modern parliamentarism, inspired by the American war of independence: "No taxation without representation". Finally, it is the seal of a sense of belonging to our community, whose development we contribute to because of our faculties. In this regard, it is intolerable for some citizens or businesses to free themselves from taxation while taking advantage of the services and infrastructure offered to them. Fraud is all the more unacceptable in the context of budgetary tensions as we live and as we politically choose not to increase compulsory levies. I am not going back to what you said about the article on the platforms, which, I would remind you once again, does not change the current taxation in any way. Thus, tax evasion is an infringement of the principle of equality between citizens before the law, a betrayal of our community, a blow to our republican pact. It's the cancer of society! For all these reasons, I welcome this bill, which will equip the state with the means of detection and punishment while strengthening those already existing. I also congratulate Émilie Cariou on her excellent work as rapporteur, particularly after her fact-finding mission to the Bercy lock. The means of detection respond to the challenge of the complexity and ingenuity of tax evasion systems, especially in the human sphere with the creation of a tax police, this has been said. Aggravation of sanctions is a strong signal to fraudsters – the name and shame is also a societal sanction. Finally, the extension of the French list of tax havens to non-cooperative states and territories on the European list is a positive signal to our European partners, while the fight against tax fraud requires a common response from all the Member States of the European Union. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] France is showing the way. We will be leading the fight against tax fraud together, with the aim not of reducing it, but of eradicating it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u83	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u84	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, tax evasion and evasion are poisonous to our democracy as they undermine the link established through taxation between citizens and the national community. For citizens who normally pay their taxes, impunity is unbearable, as is the lack of response from the public authorities. Beyond this cruelly felt injustice, it is also an unbearable double penalty: the lack of receipt in the state funds resulting from tax evasion and evasion inevitably requires an increase in the contribution of citizens who normally pay their taxes, simply in order to be able to close the planned budget. Over the past ten years, politicians around the world, and especially in Europe, have become aware of the need to strengthen tools to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. Under the previous quinquennium, much progress has been made under pressure from the majority of the time and, also, thanks to the OECD recommendations. I'll mention a few of them. The national financial prosecutor's office, which gives justice a fiscal competence that the law had never really granted to it, and which has both national territorial competence and limited material competence – exclusive, in the matter of stock exchange offences. Also under the previous quinquennium, the STDR was set up, Bercy's famous processing service for amending declarations – which you extinguished on December 31st, Minister – which made it possible to regularize for more than 32 billion euros of assets, with 50,000 applications filed. Not all recoveries have been finalized, of course, but already more than EUR 8 billion have been returned to the State funds, which would not have been the case without the famous STDR. Finally, the Sapin 2 Act contains an important part of the provisions relating to the fight against tax fraud and in particular introduces a criminal transaction procedure for legal persons in the case of certain offences such as the laundering of tax fraud, but does not extend to cases of tax fraud. In terms of transparency and information exchange between tax administrations, we have also achieved progress in the 2013 Banking Act. Your bill, Minister, is about to take a new step, which we welcome. In order to determine its scope, let me have a few thoughts and questions. First, is your project more or less ambitious than what is being done at European level? The answer is that you are on average as it consists, among other things, of translating European directives into French law. Second question: Does your bill provide new answers with respect to the taxation of collaborative platforms such as Airbnb, etc. - Is that what you're saying? The answer is both yes and no. No, in the sense that he pursues what had been initiated under the previous legislature; Yes, in the sense that it clearly foresees – I would like to emphasize – the steps that the platforms will have to take to inform taxpayers about their reporting obligations. On this subject, and in view of the controversy created this weekend around the Bon Coin – I quote the site – I would like to clarify that information about the tax administration does not necessarily mean taxation by the tax administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u86	Question 3: Does your bill provide sufficient resources for the tax administration to implement the new provisions? There, Minister, I fear that we will disagree. I want to say the answer is no. First, if we look at the evolution of the workforce in Bercy planned for 2019 but started in 2017, well before the current quinquennium; Next, it would appear that in Bercy's organization, you have removed or are in the process of doing so the control services of taxpayers who have very high incomes and who, until then, were subject to regular controls. Minister, we await your answer on this point. Question four: Does your bill provide for the end of Bercy's lock? The Socialist and Related Group welcomes the relaxation planned, but we would like to draw your attention to two points. First of all, Bercy's lock had to date no legal existence because it was the result of a case-law of the Court of Cassation. With this text, he is given an existence. Next, the creation of an obligation for the administration to inform the Public Prosecutor's Office of all tax breaches, on fees exceeding 100000 euros. At the initiative of my colleague Christine Pires Beaune, we propose a lowering of this threshold. We also have amendments to completely remove the lock, but I think they would go a little too far. In any event, we would like this threshold to be lowered. Question 5: Is your bill going far enough with respect to consulting firms that market tax optimisation or fraud schemes? The answer is both yes and no. Yes, in the sense that you impose a conviction of counsel when it is clearly recognized that it is on their recommendation that a taxpayer has deliberately breached its tax obligations; No, in the sense that your text falls far short of those in force in the United Kingdom. Last question, which I will not answer since the time has elapsed: does your bill answer the question of hidden revenues through holding companies? There are several elements of the answer. On this point, we believe that he could have gone further. [[Applause on the benches of the Socialist and related groups and LaREM]] In any case, we hope that the examination of the text will lead to further progress and, as we have done in committee, we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u87	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u88	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, freeing himself from the law, fraud undermines the revenue of the State; by placing himself outside the law, the fraudster infringes the social contract; by strengthening inequalities, in defiance of our republican motto, the fraudster, selfish culprit, makes the whole society pay. Let us say clearly: as representatives of the nation, we cannot remain spectators of this scourge. I am delighted to see that this is what you have wished, Minister: a merciless, immediate and modern struggle. Fraud and art have one thing in common: the creativity of the authors. For this reason, the means and tools of struggle made available must be constantly adjusted. You quickly announced this bill to combat tax and social fraud that we are starting to discuss tonight. It is a complete and balanced text, a text that must be read in the light of the ESSOC law on the right to error, which has begun a transformation in the administrative-administered relationship by placing the relationship of trust at the centre. Our action is neither a powdering nor a cosmetic treatment. Our action is a system, our action is based on the "at the same time": on the one hand, a State which advises and accompanies rather than punishes, which adapts itself to local circumstances and the needs of citizens, a State which tolerates the error committed in good faith, capable of forgiveness; On the other hand, a state without a state of soul facing the fraudsters and punishing them without any complacency. There are many recipients of this ambitious text. First, your administration, Minister, through the assignment of judicial tax officers within the Ministry of Budget in order to increase the investigative capacity and resources allocated to the fight against fraud, but also through the facilitation of data exchange between administrations. We were able to see that last week, at the conference that took place in Bercy at your initiative, their expertise in this field is proven. Agents have already adapted tools such as artificial intelligence and predictive tools. They have placed them at the heart of their trades and want to continue to move forward. Second, the French. The latter are modern and increasingly use the platforms of the collaborative and digital economy. If they embrace modernity, our fiscal policy must do the same. The transmission of their user data by collaborative economy platforms directly meets this objective. These new provisions must not scare the French or economic actors. They clearly distinguish between quasi-professional practices and private sales, especially online, but also co-consumption practices. These provisions should help to restore tax equity between traditional and digital companies. The lifting of Bercy's lock also concerns them. Many of us on these benches have seen the interest of our fellow citizens in this subject. This text also deals with the thorny and media issue of tax havens. I regret that the discussions too often focus on the only list of non-cooperative states and territories known as ETNCs, while we have other extremely effective tools for which there should be at least as much noise. I have also proposed amendments, which have been accepted by our committee, so that they can be strengthened. When it comes to such important issues, let us get out of our hertrion positions and adopt frank positions that shed light on debates that are often Sibyllin for our fellow citizens! I said this last week when I presented my report on international tax evasion of companies: it seems to me that we need to think at European level about supporting the Member States of the European Union whose tax practices are harmful to a transition of their economy that is no longer based solely on financial services but on real industries. Finally, let us end with the figures, in particular those that are used to denounce our political choices, those figures that are not the subject of the necessary intellectual effort to know what they really cover, as well as a question about the methods used, since some prefer media or rhetorical effects. Let us put an end to this delusion and this dizzying war of zeros if we seriously consider the difference in amounts! To be able to make good politics, one must tell the truth, not speculate in order to be able to fix the right cursor of public action! It is with this in mind, Minister, that last week you announced the creation of an observatory involving statisticians and NGOs to produce an official estimate. I am particularly pleased that this is one of the fifteen flagship proposals in my information report on international corporate tax evasion, which I presented last week. The fight against fraud must be pursued relentlessly, because it breaks national solidarity and is one of the sources of the rise of populism. At the same time, we must also fight against international tax evasion, which was the subject of my report. The tax evasion provisions have not been included in this bill, as the Government has chosen to clearly distinguish fraud from optimisation. But let's make an appointment to look at this issue in the context of the review of the finance bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This fight must be fought at European level, and we will take part in it alongside the President of the Republic, who reminded him, in his speech by the Sorbonne, that this was a condition of our European sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u89	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u90	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Ms.Rapporteur, Panama Papers in 2016, Paradise papers in 2017, Dubai papers in 2018, we could without difficulty extend this list already provided. Indeed, every new year brings its share of financial scandals which, each time, show us the extent of tax fraud around the world. In France, the annual amount of tax fraud is between EUR 60 billion and EUR 100 billion. This loss of profits accounts for more than 6 per cent of our country's public spending. It is an important manna, of which the State is private and which cannot be put at the service of the general interest. This would allow the construction of more than 20,000 schools or 300 hospitals. It is not demagogy to say that, minister. I'm just making a connection between escape and what it would represent in our budget. This amount is considerable when compared, for example, to the 33 million euros of credits that were withdrawn from the French Education Agency abroad – AEFE – at the end of 2017. That 33 million euros, you will agree, Minister, is nothing if we compare them to the 100 billion euros that faint in nature every year. Therefore, combating tax fraud is an imperative, not only economic and social, but also political. Indeed, in the name of what could some avoid their obligations to the nation and ultimately to the Republic itself? Fraud runs counter to key principles of our law, such as the principle of equality and, more specifically, the principle of equality of all before the public office. It strikes the public revenues necessary for national solidarity and the financing of public services. Moreover, it distorts fair competition between economic actors. It is a factor of injustice and inefficiency. That is why the fight against fraud must become, now more than ever, one of the priorities of the public authorities. In the past, many initiatives have already been taken. I am thinking of the law of 6 December 2013 on combating tax fraud and major economic and financial crime, or of the Sapin 2 law of 9 December 2016, which also contains an important part on fraud. At the international level, the fight against tax evasion has also become a priority, particularly under the auspices of the OECD, after the 2008 financial crisis. However, these arrangements are still insufficient, in particular because, at the same time, the technical and human resources of the administration have been reduced and, over the last 20 years, successive governments have eliminated several thousand jobs. In this context, I welcome the creation of a tax police, which will include some 30 agents. It's probably too little, but the best thing being the enemy of the good is to greet this step forward. This text reinforces sanctions against tax, social and customs fraud very opportunely. There were shortcomings in the scheme and I welcome the excellent initiative of my colleague Émilie Cariou, who is proposing the removal of Bercy's lock. It's a good thing, as much as this lock gave the impression of a two-speed justice. Another flaw in this bill is that Article 11 provides for the inclusion of the list of tax havens of the European Union in the French list. While a country such as Tunisia was unjustly included – it has been removed – other countries, however members of the European Union and known for their complacency with tax evasion, are not included. In short, there is positive and negative in this text. I hope that our work will improve everything that can be done and that we can – let's dream a little! – achieve unanimity on all these benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u91	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u92	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the second chamber and that of our committees shows this: the fight against fraud and the strengthening of the resources devoted to it is an important issue. An economic issue, but above all a democratic and social one. Democratic, because fraud undermines the republican foundations of our society and weakens consent to tax. Social, because it is a matter of justice and fairness. Tax is what underpins society, living together, and everyone's participation in the life of the nation. The French do not have to pay the price of the incivism of those who cheat. But incivism costs us, not only because of the urgent need to balance our public finances and ensure the continuity and smooth functioning of our public services, but also and above all because it erodes the trust of taxpayers. This trust is a prerequisite for consent to tax and it is it that gives meaning to our public spending. Maintaining confidence is the object of this text, and I welcome the balance: it improves the detection of fraud through the exchange of information; it strengthens the prerogatives of the customs services; it provides for more dissuasive penalties through the new publishing mechanisms, both for administrative and criminal sanctions; it tightens sanctions against tax offences linked to different financial arrangements; it increases transparency. In this connection, I should like to commend the excellent work done by our rapporteur on the arrangement of the so-called Bercy lock system, which enables a balanced solution to be reached. This text shows that the fight against fraud is one of the priorities of the legislature, as is the consolidation of the relationship of trust between the state and taxpayers – for this is indeed the implicit objective of this text. It is a question of showing that no one can escape tax and that the French can have confidence in their administration to make the best use, and in the general interest, of their contribution through tax. A euro must be a well spent euro; A well-spent euro must be a politically justified euro, and above all an effective euro. It is with this in mind that we have experienced a change in the budgetary process and put in place the "Evaluation Spring" to monitor the proper use of public funds and the effectiveness of public policies. That is why we in the Committee on Finance are also developing a draft budget office which will provide an a priori costing of the measures we are proposing. This tool will help ensure effective use of public funds. Making public spending more effective: it is also to meet this requirement that the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister launched Cape 2022. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The text on the right to error was the first brick of a profound change in French relations with the administration. Of course, we are still far from reconciling the French with tax, but the text we are looking at today, which is part of a demanding policy to combat tax fraud, allows us to move closer to this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u93	The last speaker on the list is Mr Eric Diard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u94	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank Mr de Saint-Martin, who has agreed to exchange his place with me in this general discussion. It is estimated that the annual amount of tax fraud is between €20 billion and €80 billion, or even €100 billion, according to a report published last Thursday. It is as much, if not more, Minister, than the budget deficit of 2018, estimated at 80 billion euros. At a time when the Government is making the final arbitrations for the 2019 Finance Bill, we can imagine what these 100 billion lost profits represent: these are all tax increases that could be saved for the middle classes; It is so much money that could have been invested in our schools, for the protection of our fellow citizens and to give the public service the means it is sorely lacking. Tax evasion has a cost to the state, but it also has a much greater moral cost to the social contract that underpins our society. Indeed, the millions of French people who see their tax slips arrive every year experience all the more pain as they know that others allow themselves to escape them in contempt of the law. Moral harm is even greater when tax evasion is committed by public officials, as they have been given a mandate by the people to represent them and to defend the public interest. In these economically difficult times, it is all the more unacceptable that those who ask for efforts from the French would escape the obligations they themselves set in place. That is why any law that proposes to combat tax fraud is a law that needs to be passed. Our group will therefore obviously vote for this text, which contains a number of advances. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that the fight against tax fraud did not wait for the new world or the Cahuzac case to be put in place. Already in 2009, under the leadership of Nicolas Sarkozy and his government, of which you were a member, Mr. Chairman of the Finance Committee, the list of tax havens – non-cooperative states and territories – was adopted by the OECD. Section 11 of this bill is intended to review this list. Indeed, the world is moving and, in a society where billions of euros can be moved in a few seconds and with a click of a mouse, tax fraud is also evolving. It is a game of our laws and our borders, as the Panama Papers revealed to us, and then the Paradise Papers. That is why we must be just as responsive and vigilant, which means that we must regularly review the list of non-cooperative countries in tax matters. However, this progress cannot be limited to a purely French development. If there is an area where the European Union can intervene and where we need all our European partners, it is the fight against tax fraud, which costs the European Union more than EUR 1000 billion every year. I therefore urge the Government and the majority not to be satisfied with the progress we are about to vote on. We must continue to make them known to our partners, in order to provide a European response to this problem which goes far beyond the national framework. Indeed, if we are alone in denouncing opaque actions and aggressive tax policy by states, our efforts and the means we are putting in place to combat tax fraud and evasion will be in vain. Most of these means are found in clause 1 of the bill. It seems to us that they could be more effective or, at least, more judiciously employed. Indeed, you are planning the creation of a specific tax police, consisting of fifty tax officers. If this is indeed an excellent message sent to tax fraudsters, it may be feared that this tax police will double with the National Brigade for the Suppression of Fiscal Crime – BNRDF. It may even be counterproductive, creating competition between services, which may refuse to cooperate or which would have difficulty communicating or working together. You said, Minister, that to avoid this, the tax police would be seized of the simplest cases of tax evasion. BNRDF, for its part, would retain full jurisdiction as soon as cases of tax evasion were heavier, more complex or simply related to other offences, such as money laundering or corruption. However, because of this distribution of cases and the fact that, in general, the offence of tax evasion rarely occurs alone, the tax police may be underemployed. Perhaps it would be better to strengthen the BNRDF by giving it more resources, rather than creating a second entity, even though, during our work on procedures for the prosecution of tax offences, we have noted with the rapporteur the existence of tax policies in Europe. I would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to Article 7 which we will soon be studying. This article introduces an administrative fine against professionals, in particular lawyers, who have allowed or helped their clients to commit acts punishable by an increase of 80% by the tax. As it stands, there is a problem with this device. Let's imagine that a taxpayer is being remedied after following the advice of a professional. The latter would be subject to an administrative penalty. But what would happen if the taxpayer appealed his relief? Would his board's administrative sanction be suspended? The text does not say anything about it. I would like more details on this point. There are therefore two questions, starting with the question of professional secrecy. The Board would find itself in a difficult situation if it wished to appeal its sanction, as it might have to reveal elements that could betray professional secrecy. The second question, of a constitutional nature, concerns respect for the presumption of innocence: this mechanism, as envisaged, could lead to the sanction of a professional, even though his client would have been released on appeal. That is why I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and the Government to this matter, either to seek clarification or to reflect on a mechanism that would correct these disadvantages – for example, by making administrative sanction possible only when the taxpayer's sanction is final. Finally, this bill will put an end, after a year of fierce debate, to Bercy's lockdown. During the consideration of the bill on the moralization of public life, amendments had been tabled to remove this lock, which allows the criminal prosecution of tax offences only with the agreement of the minister responsible for the budget. Given the complexity of the case, the Committee on Laws and the Committee on Finance then set up a joint fact-finding mission on procedures for the prosecution of tax offences, which I had the honour of chairing. We must admit that we have wronged Clemenceau, who said that to bury a reform, it was enough to set up a commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u96	Over 18 weeks, we conducted more than 30 hearings involving nearly 70 people. At the end of our work, all of the proposals for this fact-finding mission are reflected in this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] I would therefore like to pay a strong tribute to the rapporteur, Émilie Cariou, who was also the rapporteur of this mission. Without his skills, his work and his determination to completely review Bercy's lockdown, we would certainly not be close to putting an end to it in this bill. We must acknowledge, Mr Minister, that you were not initially convinced by all the proposals in the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u97	That's right! He's become one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u98	Thank you for listening, which allowed them to be translated into a bill now, when they were not delivered until last May. This report was adopted unanimously by the Law and Finance Committees, thanks to the work of each of the members of the mission, which I would like to thank: Mr de Courson, Mr Bourlanges, Mr Labaronne, who was very active, Mrs Peyrol, Mr Coquerel, who was also very active. I greet their work because I, for my part, was only a modest facilitator. This text is the result of collective work that is too rarely put forward in this House, which too often prefers division to the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] That is why I am addressing the forthcoming debates in a calm and favourable manner, even though I will always keep an eye on their evolution in the next sittings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u101	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u102	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u103	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u104	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u105	The Commission has deleted Article 1a. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 133, which is intended to restore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u106	This amendment is intended to restore Rule 1 A, introduced by Nathalie Goulet and adopted in the Senate, but deleted by the Assembly's Finance Committee. It aims to extend the list of offences for which FIPB officers can assist in criminal investigations to include money laundering. Our Finance Committee has deleted this article because it "risks disproportionate mobilisation of the tax administration. This is a question of means." I would add that Article 1e A is complementary to Article 1e r, which creates a tax policy with Bercy, to which we are in favour. Minister, I trust prosecutors to exercise discernment and avoid the flow of files that you seem to be afraid of.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u107	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u108	Indeed, we are opposed to the introduction of this provision because many tax officers are already working with the judicial authority, whether it be at the BNRDF, as judicial assistants in the JIRS – specialised interregional courts –, at the courts, or at the BNEE – national economic investigation brigade – not to mention the SNDJ – national judicial customs service – and soon the tax police. As a result, a large number of tax officers will be engaged in the service of judges. To extend the assistance of the administration to all offences of money laundering seems to us to be disproportionate. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u109	The Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u110	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u111	The Commission has deleted Article 1eb. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 135, which is intended to restore the rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u112	Tax records can be particularly complex and the tax administration may also sometimes misunderstand the infringement or even reverse the assessment of the facts. In fact, it is now possible to be sentenced definitively for tax evasion before the tax judge cancels the tax adjustment that gave rise to the criminal procedure. Article 1 B, adopted by the Senate, introduces provisions to avoid these pitfalls. We wish to further strengthen the solution proposed by this article, on the one hand, because it could allow dilatory manoeuvres to delay criminal proceedings, on the other hand because it introduces very short, often untenable deadlines for the tax judge. Therefore, this amendment, submitted by the Socialist and Related Group, calls on the Government to submit a report to Parliament before 1 January 2020, assessing the proportion of upset decisions over the past 10 years between the criminal judge and the tax judge and proposing ways of remedying them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u113	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u114	This risk exists, but has been considerably reduced by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council in its decisions of 24 June 2016. From now on, a taxpayer who has been released from tax by a court decision that has become final on substantive grounds can no longer be convicted of tax evasion. It is true that creating new features in the transmission of cases to the judicial judge may lead to an influx of cases. I prefer to refer to the implementing circular the question of the transfer to the judge of knowledge of this situation referred to by the Constitutional Council. It is up to the implementing circular to organise this new cooperation between the tax authorities and the courts: this information must be given to the judicial judge in the context of the administration of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u115	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u116	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u117	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u118	This amendment does not seem useful to me. Indeed, we could only find one or two cases: do we really need a report? Especially since in one of these two cases, the convicted person went to cassation, where he won. The criminal decision was therefore quashed, since the person had won before the administrative courts in the litigation against the tax administration. In short, it is only a report, but it does not seem very useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u119	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u120	The Senate's deletion of section 1 can be an issue if we share the purpose of this article, which is to give Bercy a new police force and new investigative means to conduct judicial investigations – police custody, wiretapping, wiretapping – in relation to tax evasion. This police force will be placed under the authority of a judicial magistrate and will have about 30 judicial tax officers. However, this progress does not allay our concerns. The first concerns the articulation, in terms of missions, of this police with the BNRDF, integrated in the Ministry of the Interior, as with the customs police. Do we not risk a tangle of competences, a superimposition of missions? As much as we consider it useful to strengthen the police powers of the tax administration, we would like our fears to be removed as regards the emergence of competition between ministries and even of a war on services. Finally, in terms of means, where will you go to look for these thirty judicial tax officers? A fraud case is made up of the various tax services chain. While every link is indispensable, where will you break the chain? In a more comprehensive framework for the management of Bercy's workforce, will you draw from DGFIP's workforces from the cash flow network in rural areas? We question the respect for the balance, in terms of means, between the different services.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u121	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u122	Mr Minister, on section 1, we have already mentioned the fact that this would only be a transfer of personnel. To the best of our knowledge, if you will certainly not move police officers from another department to the tax police, you will send many officers from the Directorate of Public Finance, while these officers are already being used to combat tax fraud in particular – which is why, in our view, this new system will not change anything. If, however, you have more precise elements, we are takers. For the time being, despite our research, the only official element at our disposal is the impact assessment, according to which it will be a redeployment of staff whose budgetary impact will be zero. You told me earlier that even the most combative unions in our eyes, the most resistant to yours, say that the development of IT tools within GDFIP makes it possible to limit the number of staff. The Union Solidaires Public Finances, which we auditioned and which, as you know, is the largest union of the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts, said in a report published last week that digital "can help and complement human action but without replacing it". That is why it regrets the 3100 jobs that have been abolished at DGFIP since 2010, particularly within the tax control department. As we have already pointed out, such deletions are contradictory to the stated will, of which I have no doubt, to better control tax offenders. These are the reasons why we believe that Article 1 is a decoy: it creates nothing new, simply transferring resources. However, I look forward to the concrete elements that could prove the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u123	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u124	Minister, when I was in office, I did, if not set up the tax police department, at least after an in-depth debate, giving tax officers important judicial powers, in line with judicial customs. Following another debate, these officers were integrated into the Ministry of the Interior. I do not make it an ideological matter: what matters is to be effective. This is the purpose of these amendments, which do not come from the Republicans: how will the missions be divided between the BNRDF, Bercy and the judicial customs authorities? Do you also have an account of the actions of tax officers with judicial powers within the Ministry of the Interior? Has their action been effective?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u125	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u126	My reply to the speakers will allow me to explain why I will reject the amendments aimed at abolishing the tax policy. Mr Coquerel, you asked me where I'm going to pick up the tax police officers, and how it will work in the modern framework that I presented earlier. We are going to do some additional recruitment, Mr Coquerel: we will soon publish the thirty job sheets. In particular, we will recruit contract agents who, on 2 January, if Parliament adopts the decision, will go to the National Customs School in Tourcoing. They will graduate in June: the tax police is therefore not rejected to the Greek calends. The posts will be published. Officers will therefore not be recruited from existing FIPB services unless a volunteer wishes to give a turning point in his career, or from the customs investigation departments or the BNRDF. I say this in front of national representation, I cannot do better. Then, you link the job deletions within the DGDIP to the tax control. You have referred to the abolition of at least 30,000 posts since the quinquennats of Mr Sarkozy and Mr Hollande. But no position of tax auditor was abolished, either by President Sarkozy, or by President Hollande, or last year by President Macron in the first year of his quinquennium. DGFIP devotes itself to many other tasks than fiscal control: it accompanies local authorities, deals with the evaluation of the estate and real estate, and still carries out many other tasks of the State which are undergoing profound changes. This evolution of the tasks of the State may be the subject of disagreement between us, but this is not the subject of the text we are considering. Your questions, Mr. Bricout, are with Mrs. Pires Beaune. I would like to state that there is no link between the cash flow and this new service. I know that, in the Aisne, a cash flow is suspended: I will have the opportunity, Mr Member, to come back to the parliamentarians to discuss the evolution of the territorial map, including in the beautiful department of Aisne where I will soon be visiting. You will obviously be invited. While replying to President Woerth, I would like to defend Rule 1. I regret that I was unable to convince the Senate, and that I did not fully respond to questions about the advice of the Council of State, which we must necessarily take into account in order to improve the system. President Woerth's approach is the right one: the issue is not ideological, it is about efficiency. The Perben Act established the Customs Investigation Service. In fact, by going back into the debates of the time, I realized that the same questions had been asked – I think you will not contradict me, Mr Woerth. The customs investigation service, which now has special weapons – seized by a magistrate, it investigates cases, organizes spinnings, makes taps – would not compete with the Ministry of the Interior? The answer was obviously no. These two services do not exactly do the same, especially as the police of the Ministry of the Interior are increasingly engaged – in any case, more than in 2004 or 2005 – in the investigation of major crime and the fight against terrorism, which is quite logical. If there is something to improve, here or there, it is in terms of complementarity between the two services, not substitution. I come to a very important point, which is perhaps a source of confusion since the beginning of our debates: it will be up to the magistrate to choose the service he is going to take. At the same time, this allows me to respond to Mr Diard's inquiry during the general discussion. It is not the Minister of Public Action and Accounts who will ask the Minister of the Interior to let his department intervene. This is how the customs investigation service, which is run by a magistrate in Bercy, works – you can very well visit it and meet the women and men who work there, among whom are collaborators that we make available. It is not the minister responsible for the budget who asks the magistrate to conduct a particular investigation. As usual on other matters, the magistrate, who has a panel of services, chooses to refer the matter to the BNRDF, within the Central Office for Combating Corruption and Financial and Fiscal Offences – OCLCIFF – or the customs investigation department, the tax police or any other police – free to refer the matter to the judicial police if he wishes. Again, there is no problem with the organization or competition of the police, since this bill entrusts the judicial authority with the task of investigating what is involved in fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u127	But then, what will be the added value of this new service?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u128	What will this new service do? It will have to prove its effectiveness, as the customs investigation department has already done – at the invitation of President Woerth, I will give some figures later. As far as tax matters are concerned exclusively, there is much to bet that it is the Bercy tax police department that will be seized: in fact, it will now be equipped with means of search – this was already a little the case – but above all of listening or monitoring, as large fraudsters use important technological means. If the files have a connection of great delinquency, one can imagine that the service seized will instead be BNRDF. As far as customs is concerned, it will be the customs investigation department. As this new service will be, if I dare say, a cocoon – thirty agents next year – that is destined to grow up, we will place it next to the customs investigation department, so that it can feed on what this young adult service has learned since its birth. Finally, Mr. President Woerth, I want to answer your questions. Since the creation of the judicial tax investigation procedure in 2009, among the complaints dealt with exclusively by BNRDF, DGFIP has filed more than 500 complaints on the presumption of tax evasion, for about €5 billion of hidden assets. As for the customs investigation service, it has had a great success which proves its full effectiveness: last year, more than 862 million euros were seized, mainly in the context of cases of VAT fraud – a strictly customs subject, which therefore falls under Bercy's responsibility –, of money laundering and even of the financing of terrorism. The new department under dual supervision – customs investigation service and tax police – will be composed of 250 NJS investigators; The tax centre, headed by a deputy, will comprise about 50 agents. By the end of our debates, Mr. President Woerth, we will give you some figures on the number of complaints lodged by the DGFIP that have actually been closed by the magistrates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u129	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u130	I'd like to ask you a very small question, minister. Is not the best way to optimize the means to merge the customs investigation service with the tax police in a single large department, under the dual authority of the minister responsible for the budget and the minister of the interior? Would that be feasible? All our colleagues have pointed out that Mr Woerth has already been created, when he was a minister – he himself reminded us just now – the customs investigation service, which works. We're adding a tax policy. Mrs Vichnievsky and many other colleagues are concerned that this might be a little duplicative. Even if it is the justice that decides to seize one or the other of these services, won't they walk on it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u131	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u132	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u133	Mr de Courson, if your intention is good, I cannot share your expectations. I will give you several good reasons which I hope will convince you. First, a single service would be placed under judicial authority. At the extreme limit, the creation of a single service would have no interest since neither the Minister of the Interior nor the Minister of Public Action and Public Accounts can seize it themselves. The services are housed in ministries, are specialized, but are not under the authority of a minister; There is no administrative competition since it is the magistrates who seize them. On the other hand, MP, I think magistrates like to have a range of services at their disposal – perhaps your experience leads you to share this idea. Because they have more or less confidence in a particular service, because they are more or less willing to work with it, because it is more or less specialized, they like to have a choice between OCLCIFF and the customs investigation department. This depends on the nature and conduct of the investigations. Finally, the issue is not the merger of services under the authority of a single department, but specialization. One of the problems we face, and you know it better than I do, is that tax fraud is extremely specific: we have to answer very technical questions, which sometimes fall within the competence of Bercy's technicians but which sometimes also raise more police or legal questions than tax questions. We propose the creation of a new police. I told you that there would be no competition, since it is institutionally impossible. I am providing this new service with additional posts rather than through redeployments. As in 2004, when Mr. Perben and Mr. Woerth were in business, let the tax police experiment with his specialization, which clearly responds to a shortage. In three, four or five years, Parliament will have the opportunity to assess this measure and to say, if necessary, that it does not work. But I'm sure it will work very well, just as the SNDJ has proven its worth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u134	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 188, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u135	This amendment, tabled by my excellent colleague Patrick Hetzel, takes into account the creation of your new service and adds some elements. First, it is proposed to immediately open the right to challenge a tax interpretation of the administration before the administrative judge. A logical corollary: no penalty can be imposed on the taxpayer who has applied his interpretation in full transparency pending the judge's decision. Secondly, it is necessary to add a provision corresponding to what exists today with regard to customs fraud. To ensure efficient and timely recovery, it is proposed that the legislation explicitly state that tax transactions entirely paid by the taxpayer extinguish public action when the file has been completed. Finally, it is a question of giving an additional tool to the administration and a genuine legislative guarantee to the taxpayer, which would ensure the termination of all proceedings in exchange for the payment of the taxes and a substantial fine. A recent example is quoted by my colleague Hetzel: in the Mediapart case, the administrative court annulled the penalties imposed on that publisher on the ground that he had acted in warning the administration. It is therefore a matter of establishing in the law a secure system, which benefits all taxpayers in good faith in the same way and which will significantly improve the relationship between the administration and the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u136	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u137	Mrs Dalloz, you are proposing that a taxpayer who has challenged the administration's decisions made in the context of a rescript may avail himself of a principle of immunity that protects him from prosecution for tax evasion. In my opinion, it goes too far. You are going to create a de facto incitement to fraud: by providing for such immunity, you are encouraging taxpayers to ask for the form of the administration's interpretation while continuing to apply the tax provisions according to the reading that suits them. For this reason, I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u138	I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u139	I have before me three amendments, Nos 77, 78 and 79, which can be presented together. Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u140	These editorial amendments are intended to replace the words "of the department" with the words "under the authority of the minister".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u141	I have before me four amendments, Nos 26, 256, 126 and 134, containing an additional article after the article and which may be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 26 and 256 are identical. Amendments Nos 126 and 134 are also amendments. I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u142	This amendment has been proposed to us by civil society, more specifically by a collective of associations and NGOs. It aims to open up the possibility for financial crime associations to intervene in tax fraud cases by exercising the rights granted to the civil party. At present, associations can only take civil action for offences that are listed in the law in a limited manner, namely in cases of money laundering, corruption or infringement of the electoral code. History has shown that in many cases their help has proved to be very useful. However, this right is not recognized in relation to tax evasion, although they have expertise and expertise that could be useful in the suppression of these offences. I recall the complexity of certain tax schemes and other optimisation mechanisms that go beyond legality. By opening up this possibility to associations, society as a whole would benefit from useful support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u143	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 256.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u144	I would like to add to Mr Roussel's explanations. This amendment would be consistent with the President's desire to involve or integrate civil society and its actors in democratic procedures. In addition, in committee, the rapporteur referred to the extremely technical nature of tax fraud in order to postpone this amendment. But precisely, NGOs like Oxfam, which we have already quoted – but there are not just her, there are many others! – have knowledge of both the microcosm of fraud and very complex mechanisms for avoiding tax obligations. Lastly, the NGOs that would be approved would provide an additional guarantee of independence and transparency, which was extremely necessary in such cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u145	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 126 and 134. On these amendments, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u146	This Matthieu Orphelin amendment pursues the purpose of this bill, which is to improve the detection and apprehension of tax fraud, and tends to do so by making greater use, as has been said, of the expertise of organised civil society. Its adoption would allow the few associations specializing in financial crime to become a civil party for tax fraud offences. The measure does not create a new device, but extends a mechanism that already exists. In fact, associations can already become a civil party in the related areas of tax fraud, such as corruption, influence trafficking or money laundering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u147	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 134.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u148	Associations which, in their statutes, are intended to combat corruption may file a civil claim for offences limited to those listed by law. This amendment is intended only to extend this list to offences of tax evasion punishable by Article 1741 of the General Tax Code, which covers relatively serious acts, since the penalties incurred are a fine of EUR 500,000 and imprisonment for five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u149	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u150	This issue had been discussed by the fact-finding mission, which did not wish to open the possibility of civil action to associations. Tax litigation is a dispute that is not presumed: tax evasion cannot be assumed, tax must be recalculated. The mechanism provided for in Article 13 considerably increases the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office, including the lifting of tax secrecy. The associations will therefore be able to send information to the prosecutor, who will exercise his powers of prosecution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u152	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u153	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u154	The argument put forward to oppose these amendments is a little weak. You're saying these are very technical files. It is certainly not the associations that decide, but that at least they can act or even participate! Our group is open on this issue. We had the same discussions in many areas, especially on corruption, for which we eventually opened up this possibility – it took years to get it. This measure therefore seems rather positive and the purely technical arguments are not sufficient, because it is not the associations that will judge. There are services, judges and magistrates: they will decide. Oxfam – since everyone knows who proposed these amendments – cites the example of Panama Papers. It is this organisation which, together with some journalists, has discovered the facts and it seems to me normal that it should be able to judge the matter before the courts. It's a democratic expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u155	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u156	I disagree with Charles-Amédée de Courson. For my old master, Mr. Burdeau, the state is a fiction that was invented to allow men not to obey men, but to obey a principle. Mediation must therefore be that of the State. I understand very well that one intervenes to take civil action when one is concerned, but I do not see why there would be vigilantes everywhere whose appearance would create general insecurity for some people who might be taken as scapegoats. The example of Panama paper is, in this respect, very false. What he shows is that people are allowed to inform, quote and alert newspapers, so that everyone knows: it is then, of course, the responsibility of the State to do its work, and of justice, which is an independent judicial authority, in the name of the separation of powers. Let us leave the primary responsibility to the State in this area. This will give everyone much better legal protection against the excesses of everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u157	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u158	It is indeed Oxfam who proposed this amendment, we do not hide it, since we write it in the summary statement. Things are clear. I agree with Mr de Courson, and I disagree with Mr Bourlanges: it is only a matter of allowing these associations to take civil action. That's all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u159	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u160	They're not the ones who're going to make the judgment. The only question I'm asking is what we're afraid of.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u161	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u162	It seemed to me that the rapporteur's demonstration was sufficient for the debate, but I see that Mr de Courson invokes a provision which, if I may say so, demonstrates the opposite of what he wants to demonstrate. In the main case in which he referred to the case, Mr Bourlanges rightly pointed out that the persons concerned exercised a right of alert by making the information known, which was the work of journalists. Justice has not waited for associations to open up judicial information, as is now evident. Mrs Pires Beaune, the summary statement of your amendment, which tends to allow associations to fight against serious financial crime – which they already do – has no relation to the legal means you give them. You are proposing to allow associations to intervene in cases with which there is no connection, which is a long way, as Mr Bourlanges rightly says, from our conception of things. You tell us that it is not the associations that would judge: still happy! There are judicial institutions to do so. For all these reasons, your House should postpone these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u163	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 126 and 134.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u164	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 34 Number of votes cast 34 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 11 Against 23
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u165	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 116 and 257. I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u166	The "permissive software": quesaco, or quoque ch'e st quecha, as it looks in the North? These are cash-based software that manipulates the level of revenue generated and ultimately results in particularly large tax evasion. If we need to target an actor responsible for these mechanisms, we need to focus on those who market these software. We must therefore provide for fair and proportionate sanctions. As it stands, this bill proposes penalties that apply to opposition to the right of communication and that we find insufficient: a fine of 10000 euros per software or cashier system or per customer, as well as a fine of up to 15 % of the turnover from the marketing of software or fraudulent cashier systems. We are far from the point of view if we want to define a sufficiently dissuasive sanction against the commercialization of such software. We therefore propose doubling the sanctions currently provided for in the article. As in the case of doping, we must not only tackle cyclists, but also target those who organize the whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u167	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 257.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u168	I agree with that. We support this article, but we believe that there must be much more punishment for those who allow fraud to occur through the sale of certain software and we believe that the sanctions are too weak to be truly dissuasive. The fine provided for in the article is indeed 1500 euros per software or customer – with a ceiling of 50000 euros – for the company which refuses to communicate the information, and 15 % of the turnover from the marketing of the software when it has actually allowed fraud. We propose that these sanctions be doubled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u170	Article 2 is very interesting, as it strengthens the capacity of customs officers to deal with permissive software by giving them a right of access to source software, as well as to tax officials. Today, there is a fine of 10000 euros per software or cashier system sold and 15 % of the turnover from the marketing of the software or fraudulent cashier system. This is a fine that strikes the lack of communication and that seems to me to be a considerable step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u172	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u173	Mr Philippe Dunoyer, in support of Amendment No. 204, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u174	First of all, I would like to thank the Government for its consideration, under paragraph 25 of this article, of converting the fines provided for in the territories of Wallis and Futuna, French Polynesia and New Caledonia into local currency. My amendment, however, tends to propose that no mention be made of a "local currency", because that currency has already existed for 73 years: it is the Pacific franc, or MFF franc, whose fixed parity is recognized by an article of the monetary and financial code. It is therefore modestly proposed to replace the words "local currency" with the name of the currency that has been running long enough for us to trust: the MFF franc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u175	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u176	On this issue, I will rely on the Government's advice. Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u178	[[Smile]] I am very upset because I hear the honourable Member's argument and I also hear that the only difficulty in maintaining the words 'local currency', of which I can see how disturbing they are, is that, legally, references to code and law only retain this notion, not that of 'frt pacifique'. Your argument is good and I don't see any problem. It is not, on my part, a lack of confidence in the currency of the territories that you are referring to. I am happy to give the floor to Mr de Courson, a great specialist in the franc pacifique!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u179	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u180	To my knowledge, the Pacific franc is the only local currency. Does anyone in the House know of any others?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u181	The lur breton doesn't run anymore...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u182	Are you sure, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u183	[[Smile]] Sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u184	If the CFP franc is the only currency in the Pacific, it's kif-kif bouricot.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u185	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u186	I understand Mr Dunoyer's argument and I express a favourable opinion. If, at the time of the Joint Joint Committee, which will not fail to meet at the end of the Senate's examination of the text, there are legal difficulties which could put the text of the law into difficulty, we shall return to this question. As a matter of principle, and pending a more comprehensive legal study, let us already freeze in law the Pacific franc that you refer to.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u187	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u188	I thank the Minister for this favourable opinion in principle. I hear the reluctance that may exist and that is why I began my remarks with sincere thanks to the Government. Indeed, the General Tax Code and the Customs Code do not refer to the Pacific currency, whereas, although the territories have jurisdiction in this area, many provisions are applied. The near-precedent that we are creating here will have the advantage of making taxpayers in these territories more aware of the heaviness of the penalty they incur when they are likely to be prosecuted by the State in customs matters. We will ensure that the CMP can agree that the reference to Article D. 712-1 of the Monetary and Financial Code is sufficient for it to be included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u189	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u190	This is an important point, even though it is a little far from our debates on fraud, particularly with regard to French Polynesia and New Caledonia, where you know that taxation belongs to the territories and where customs are substitutes – in my mouth, it is not an insult – of the local government. On a trip to Polynesia, I made a commitment to President Fritch to review the customs code. This revision, no doubt necessary, could allow the inclusion of a reference to the currency that is running on the territory – I hear your argument – thus strengthening its legal value. I am receiving the President of New Caledonia next week: this may be an opportunity to discuss it with him as well. The Customs Code will be revised so that we can adapt our legislation; a mission in this direction is going to Polynesia – and tomorrow to New Caledonia, if the President so wishes – in order to ensure a coherence welcome to the legislator and perhaps to the Constitutional Council that will read our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u191	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor to support Amendment No 234 on the additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u192	The fight against tax fraud carried out by companies, a source of unfair competition vis-à-vis honest companies, is a matter of importance for the group of the Republic on the move. This struggle is done through a legislative arsenal that has progressed in recent years, which has been recalled in general discussion. But this mechanism needs to be improved: this is the subject of this amendment. To put an end to the practices of certain companies aimed at modifying or destroying accounting and commercial records prior to the commencement of control operations, in 2013 the legislator granted the tax administration the possibility of making two copies of these files and putting them under computer seals. One copy is given to the taxpayer and the other copy is retained by the administration. But, so far, it is not expected that the administration will be able to compare and oppose the copy of the files in its possession when neither the copy seals nor the copied files have been altered. However, this would allow the tax administration to determine whether the accounts were changed between the date of completion of the unannounced check and the date on which the processing is carried out. The purpose of this amendment is to provide for this possibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u194	Your amendment fills a legal gap and secures computer controls. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u195	I call Mr Bourlanges to support Amendment No. 232.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u196	The purpose of this amendment is to enable the National Old Age Insurance Fund to have access to the information contained in the declarations provided for in Article 1649b of the General Tax Code and listed in the file of life insurance contracts known as FICOVIE, in the same way as the pension and occupational health insurance funds – CARSAT – provided for in Article L. 215-1 of the Social Security Code. Pursuant to Article L. 222-1-1 of the Social Security Code, the Caisse nationale d'assurance vidéovie, for the Île-de-France region, carries out control tasks carried out elsewhere by CARSAT. This is not an absolutely decisive amendment on the substance, but it is welcome, I believe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u198	Your amendment further strengthens the exchange arrangements established by Article 3: favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u199	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u200	Section 4 of this bill is supplemented by provisions...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u201	Article 3!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u202	[[Smile]] Everything's growing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u203	This Article 3, therefore, was supplemented by provisions of governmental origin during its examination in the Senate, dealing with the fight against social fraud and providing for the monitoring agents of the national health, old age, family, agricultural and employment insurance funds, to have direct access to the information contained in three databases of the DGFIP. The aim is to carry out an assessment of the assets of the recipient if there is a clear disproportion between the recipient's life course and the amount of resources declared. Minister, what exactly is he hiding behind this provision? The texts follow each other and the stranglehold becomes ever closer to those who receive social benefits, when leniency applies to the most powerful. However, Minister, this interconnection between files has been in the eye of the cyclone for several years. It was strongly criticized by the Defender of Rights in a report published in September 2017: "These powers of control conferred on organizations are likely to reinforce the feeling of privacy intrusion that beneficiaries may experience. And that's true! Beneficiaries are often not informed of the modalities of this inter-agency cooperation, through the exploration of files in particular. That is why we simply propose that beneficiaries be informed of this inter-agency cooperation. This measure seems to us to be the minimum in relation to the provision proposed here, on which no impact assessment has been carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u205	Mr President, your amendment is indeed inspired by an opinion of the Defender of Rights, Jacques Toubon, whom I welcome in passing for the clarity of his proposals. He argued that clear information from our beneficiaries could contribute to the prevention of fraud. I share your view that information on these exchanges of data could be a deterrent. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u206	What a happiness!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u208	I hear the philosophy advocated by the Member and the rapporteur; It seems to me, however, that this is already provided for in the texts. The obligation of the beneficiaries to inform about the exchange of information between administrations is satisfied, in accordance with the request of the National Information Technology Commission and freedoms: this information is not only personal – it is given to each beneficiary – but also systematic. I therefore believe, Madam rapporteur, that it would be bad legislation to adopt a provision that already exists in the legislation. It does not seem necessary to adopt it since it already exists in a systematic and individualised way. It is therefore an unfavorable opinion, it is unnecessary to repeat the same thing twice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u209	I call Mr Thomas Rudigoz to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u210	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u211	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u212	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u213	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 3. Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to support Amendment No. 290.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u214	This amendment by Jean-Noël Barrot proposes a transitional solution pending the generalisation of the bank-administration exchange platform. Its main objective is to reduce the cost to the State of court requisitions and the processing of bank statements. It is therefore a useful amendment for our finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u216	We have already discussed this in committee. This amendment has not been discussed with the banking sector. Furthermore, I am not sure that it falls within the scope of this bill. So I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u217	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 291.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u218	This article aims to strengthen the fight against fraud in the various social benefits paid to insured persons by public bodies by strengthening the exchange of information on users between administrations, in line with the measures adopted in the framework of the draft law on the financing of social security 2018. I recall that social fraud accounts for only 3% of the fraud detected – €672 million – compared to 95% for tax fraud – €21.2 billion in 2015; figures from the national anti-fraud delegation. Conversely, the non-use of social rights extends: this is the case with the AHR, since 30% of potential beneficiaries do not request it. In order to put these two issues on the same level, we propose, through this amendment, that the means and tools used to combat fraud should also be used to detect non-use of social rights. The aim is to translate a proposal made by the public policy evaluation mission in favour of access to social rights in October 2016. In concrete terms, such a measure would make it possible to use the common national register of social protection to promote access to social rights by setting up an alert system on potential cases of non-recourse. That is the aim of this amendment, to which I associate my colleague Pierre Dharréville.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u219	Good amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u221	We fully share that objective, as the Government has said. However, a number of devices may already apply. Mrs Buzyn will be able to explain to you what the actions are in this area, as well as the Minister for the Budget here. I am not sure that this mechanism finds its place in a law to combat fraud. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u223	I too will give an unfavourable opinion, and first of all because, like the previous one, it is already satisfied: Article L. 114-12 of the Social Security Code provides that these administrations exchange information "necessary for the assessment of rights or for the performance of obligations falling within the normal functioning of the public service for which these bodies are responsible". The information thus provided allows the assessment and information of the rights of the beneficiaries and, de facto, to avoid non-recourse. But I hear what the congressman says. We know, in our territories, people who, desocialized, do not have access to information, because they do not go to see the social worker, because they do not read the information at school or even read it at all. But I am not sure that it is by such a provision that you are proposing it, honourable Member, that we will be able to do so. On the other hand, the provisions announced by the President of the Republic in the framework of the plan to combat poverty – Mrs Buzyn will detail them better than I do – fully respond to your request. The creation of the single social benefit will help to target the 30 per cent of people who do not make use of the benefits due to them and therefore are even more likely than others to fall below the poverty line. The issue will be resolved at the end of this quinquennium or at the beginning of the next quinquennium – the President mentioned 2021-2023, thanks to the automaticity of the payment of these benefits. I think, Congressman, you're...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u224	Early!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u225	... in communion of thought with the President of the Republic. Also, for reading La Voix du Nord almost daily since last week, I regret that you have not published a support statement!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u226	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u227	I just want to remind this House that it is not the state that investigates RSA's files but the social services in the departments. Social workers in the departments are already doing quite exceptional work on these non-recipients eligible for aid. Indeed, the poverty plan should at least address the legislative aspect of this mechanism. But, once again, recognize the real vocation of the departments: the accompaniment of the social. Even if the State grants compensation, you all know that it never compensates for the departments' commitments to social action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u228	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u229	I have before me two amendments, Nos 27 and 28, which can be presented together. Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u230	I take this opportunity to respond to the minister's remarks: we are gathered here to find the human and financial means to track down white-collar offenders and tax fraud. However, in the Northern Department, we are far from supporting people in difficulty, particularly in the area of non-recourse, since the chairman of the Northern Department Council has chosen to assign more agents to the RSA to hunt for fraudsters. But it is more like hunting for tax evasion that we should devote resources! As you can see, we are far from providing the necessary means to support those who do not use the RSA. Amendments Nos 27 and 28 contribute to the same objective: the fight against fraudulent social practices in the company, i.e. hidden work and illegal labour lending. Such acts must be condemned forcefully. Let us take the example of hidden work, which consists of concealing the work of an employee, not providing him with a pay slip. This puts the employee at risk, reduces the financing of social security and creates a form of unfair competition between companies. Moreover, the company sometimes receives public aid at the time when it commits these acts. They should be reimbursed, regardless of the public aid received: in the event of a mistake, it is a matter of being exemplary. The same applies to illegal labour lending, which results in sanctions being largely insufficient. That is the meaning of these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u232	Subject to the Government's expertise, it seems to me that the repressive arsenal is quite important in this area. Indeed, a person who uses hidden work, either directly or by an interposed person, may be sentenced to up to three years' imprisonment and a fine of 45,000 euros. In the presence of a minor, the penalty may be increased to five years' imprisonment and €75,000 fine. Reimbursement of State aid is provided for in Article L. 8222-2 of the Labour Code. The administrative penalties which may be imposed on employers who have been the subject of a report relating to an offence constituting illegal work are as follows: abolition of public aid for five years, reimbursement of public aid already received in the last 12 months, exclusion of public contracts for a maximum period of six months, temporary administrative closure, flat-rate adjustment of social contributions. This offence is also accompanied by other administrative sanctions. It seems to me that there is already an arsenal of important sanctions. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u234	I believe that the rapporteur's argument is the right one and that Mr Roussel's question is legitimate. Perhaps, Mr Roussel, would you agree to withdraw your amendments? To the extent that you have not presented them in committee, we have not been able to quantify them. I suggest that we meet at the debate on the finance bill, which will allow me to provide you with the figures, which I do not know at this time. Because yes, sanctions exist, but it is not clear to what extent they are applied. So before the review of the PLF, Mr President, we will share with you and the parliamentarians who wish to do so the results of these sanctions, and we will jointly appreciate their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u235	Mr Roussel, do you withdraw Amendments Nos 27 and 28?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u236	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u237	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 292.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u238	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u239	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-17-E2009.u240	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the anti-fraud bill. The meeting is adjourned.
