ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill by Mrs Maud Petit and several of her colleagues on the prohibition of ordinary educational violence (No. 1331, 1414).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u3	"We are of his childhood as we are of a country": it is with the conviction expressed by these words of Saint-Exupéry that we wish, with you, to put an end to ordinary educational violence. It is, in our view, laying the foundations of society that we aspire to build for ourselves and our children. The abolition of such violence contributes, in our view, to building a more humanistic society, an emancipatory society. The abolition of all forms of violence against children is in fact fighting against the idea of domination and the law of the strongest. Non-violence, many of us say, cannot be taught by violence. In France, the right to correction is still regularly invoked before the courts, whether for teachers, nuns or parents. Today, according to the Observatoire de la violence éducative ordinarye, 47 per cent of parents resort to severe corporal punishment, such as heavy slaps or hitting with an object, and more than half would hit their children before the age of two. If we know that obesity, asthma, school failure and a decline in self-esteem are ills that do not all have the same origin, we also know that they can be consequences of ordinary educational violence on the child as well as on the adolescent and the adult he will become. Similarly, if all so-called or deemed "light" violence does not degenerate into severe violence, we know that there may be a continuum between such violence and that ordinary educational violence is the root of abuse. In Sweden, the prohibition, in 1979, of all forms of violence against children, even though it is not, in my view, the only factor, to significantly reduce the number of children beaten – I will come back to that. Don't dislike the fringe of opinion that is perhaps the most conservative, this prohibition does not mean the end of the educational limits, nor even the crown of the child king. Education must not lead to fear, but to mutual respect. The exercise of parental authority must exclude corporal punishment and all forms of physical, verbal or psychological violence. Defending the rights and best interests of the child is not only about the safety of children, but also about their well-being and development. This law has already been passed and, let us say, has not caused the expected turmoil. The only harm noted by the Constitutional Council was that the provision was not in the right text. The French are ready for this advance: 81 per cent of parents aspire to an education without violence and it is necessary to be able to accompany this movement. The State services are also interested in this issue, while the Family Allowance Fund provides funds for this purpose and has created a target agreement specifically devoted to parenting, including ordinary educational violence. In short, almost everyone is ready for this change: it is only up to national representation to accompany this fundamental movement, and then to the state and society as a whole to make it effective. Fifty-three countries around the world have already abolished corporal punishment in all settings, and some, such as Peru or even Ireland, have unanimously passed this law. France had also ratified the International Convention on the Rights of the Child thirty years ago, whose articles reinforced the child's right to physical integrity and the protection of his or her dignity. His articles are without appeal: the methods of educating children, when they use violence, no longer fall within the private sphere or educational freedom. According to the Defender of Rights, the Council of Europe and the UN, France must implement its commitments: it must explicitly abrogate the right of customary correction and explicitly prohibit corporal punishment and psychological violence in the family, schools and all places where children are accommodated, without exception. This bill is welcomed by many associations, which I, in turn, welcome, because they have waged a fine fight: I am sure they will be able to help make this law effective. This text, which is useful in several respects, is as much more measured as some would have suggested. First, the proposed measure is a civil measure, not a criminal one. Its aim is not to punish or blame, but to establish the clear principle of prohibiting all forms of violence against children and to alert citizens to the dangers of ordinary educational violence. The right to correction is a customary principle without a legal basis – the law on which it was based was in fact abolished in 1958. In other words, this customary law must be explicitly abolished and a clear law prohibiting corporal punishment must be adopted. This measure ensures greater consistency in the laws governing relations between parents and children because, by allowing so-called "light" violence, the right of correction contradicts the provisions of the Penal Code that punish all forms of violence. In other words, such violence is repressed by criminal law, but tolerated in the name of a certain custom. We also welcome the expression "verbal or psychological violence", as violence against children is not only characterized by physical violence. Current scientific knowledge demonstrates the negative effects of psychological violence on child development, health and self-esteem. Apart from laying down a clear principle of prohibition, this law shows the way to its actual application, because the incantation of beautiful principles cannot suffice: it is necessary to set up a real accompaniment of the parents, with places in crèche, support for parenting associations, a development of maternal and child protection services – PMI – of proximity and assistance for co-parentality. We will defend three amendments, so that the text voted is clear, explicit and applicable. The first objective is to prohibit in a clear and straightforward manner the termination of the right of correction. Another, which is rather an appeal amendment, relates to paternity leave. Many studies show that the abolition of the right to correction must be accompanied by an awareness-raising policy and structures working to develop parental support. Among these measures, parental leave and paternity leave are a priority because one is not born parent: one becomes parent. It is important to remember that there is no social or cultural determinism in this area: violence is found in all socio-professional categories and it is important to clarify this between us, because there are many preconceptions in this area. There are, on the other hand, abandoned territories and populations, or territories without parental support structures. There is a need for places to meet and reflect on education and parenting, which have to break the territory, in addition to places, relays and solidarity networks for parents. IMPs need to be further supported. Work is also needed to improve the training of professionals, including their knowledge of ordinary educational violence. Indeed, the reduction of violence is essential through its integration into initial and continuing training. Regular information campaigns – some have already been launched – must accompany the adoption of this law, in order to bring to the attention of the general public, parents and professionals, but also the children themselves, the latest scientific advances on the psycho-affective development of the child and the consequences of ordinary educational violence on physical and mental health. Strengthening the means and fields of application of the free phone number 119 – because you sometimes crack after seventeen hours and thirty! – with a cell dedicated to ordinary educational violence could also be part of this awareness campaign. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and SOC groups]] This bill is useful and measured, but it is primarily protective for our children. I hope it can be unanimous. I also welcome some of the amendments tabled by my colleagues, particularly with a view to including some of the articles in this text in the health book. I also hope that some other amendments will not weaken the abolitionist scope of this bill. In any case, as it is today, the communist group is enthusiastic about voting for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u4	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u5	"Violence is not a mode of education. She doesn't explain anything and she doesn't solve anything. I repeat your words, Madam rapporteur, and I fully agree with you on this principle. I understand your fight and I subscribe to it. Some violence leaves indelible psychological traces on some children, which cannot be accepted. In any case, whether we are in favour, against or reserved, this bill leaves no one indifferent, that is the least we can say. This is often the case, moreover, when dealing with subjects of society: passions and excesses are often necessary. The debate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has been rich, particularly as you have seen, Madam rapporteur, in reminders of electoral campaign anecdotes. And for good reason! This law called "anti-feeling" leads us to ask ourselves more broadly and globally about how we are parents, at least for those who have had the chance and the will to become parents, which is what I am and I am happy about. Some, like Paul Molac, who is in my group, have even become so seven times! This text therefore raises the question of how to educate our children, of the values to be passed on to them, of how we say "no". Which parent is supposed to have never wondered whether the education he gives his child is appropriate? This text recalls the complexity of being a father or mother in the twenty-first century. Without losing ourselves in a rhetoric marked by the nostalgia of past traditional societies, on the theme "It was better before," we must ask ourselves more generally about education, with a great "E" in our contemporary societies. First of all, does education occupy today's crucial place in our societies – because it is not, in the end, the basis of everything? Then, have we not, collectively, somewhat failed in the education of our children? Have we, the parents of the 21st century, sometimes given too much priority to our professional or political careers in relation to our family life? This question is not reactionary: on the contrary, it is very modern and it is even vital to ask itself. Far from the idea of guilt: it is rather a process of accountability, which is precisely the object of this text. We are all responsible – family, public school – for the failure, real or supposed, of education, often denounced in the public debate. We are all responsible for this form of break-up that we perceive today in the transmission of benchmarks, models of success, humanistic values, respect, but also a rooting to a history and territory, and which can lead some young people towards radicalization, whether religious or the order of delinquency or a drift towards drugs. This is not only about the most disadvantaged segments of society. Let us go back to the text of the bill and its content: according to our rapporteur, the inclusion in the civil code of the express prohibition of ordinary educational violence is mainly aimed at putting an end to the recognition by the jurisprudence of the famous "right of correction". Some members of the Liberties and Territories Group are fully in favour of it and will vote with both hands on the bill. For them, if the law can lead to a change of mindset, let's go! François -Michel Lambert had thus made this subject one of his struggles since 2012, including an amendment to that effect during the consideration of the equality and citizenship bill under the previous legislature. Mr Lambert will also propose to you, Madam rapporteur, amendments to include in the children's health diary the principles of the prohibition of ordinary educational violence. Other members of our group, on the other hand, without admitting violence, are more nuanced. They rightly wonder, perhaps, about the risks of this inclusion in the civil code. For some of them, if we are not faced with proven cases of abuse, the state does not necessarily have to interfere in family life by explaining how to raise children. It is not for them to acquiesce or apologise for the "good slaps", the "good spankings" or, worse, the "beautiful beatings" which, it seems, would have "never hurt anyone": the main difficulty in this area lies in the definition of the boundary between the measured action of the parent aimed at setting limits on his or her child and the occasional or repeated abuse which must be condemned and combated with force and determination. That is why these colleagues will certainly abstain. Freedom of conscience and freedom to vote are among the founding pillars of democracy, and in particular of our political group. We will therefore not, as you understand, have a uniform vote on this text. Nevertheless, we should not fall into too manicane a view that would aim to point the finger at the opponents of this text by accusing them of condoning the ill-treatment of our children. Let's be reasonable and try not to mix everything together. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LaREM and MODEM groups]] This bill has had the merit of beginning to set the stage for a real debate on the education of our children. We thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u6	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u7	From 1979 to 2018, 54 countries banned ordinary educational violence; Spain, Portugal, Ireland, Denmark, Brazil, Bolivia, Argentina and Peru. Like these fifty-four countries, France must be faithful to its humanist and republican principles, and to affirm by a clear law its vision of education and its place in the child. That is done with the bill that we have to consider tonight. The aim is to reaffirm the dignity and integrity of the child. It is also a matter of bringing our French law into line with international law. France will thus be able to join the majority of European countries which have already adopted laws prohibiting violence against children in a family setting. Finally, it is a question of responding to a demand from our society, which must be free of violence against its children. Violence against children, whether manifested in gestures, attitudes or words, continues to cause far too many victims. Today in France, 87 per cent of children are subjected, on a daily basis, to punitive and coercive practices that parents use "in educational capacity". How many times, in a public place, in a store, in a large area or simply on the street, have we witnessed the "ordinary" violence that parents sometimes inflict on their children and face in which we do not dare or dare to intervene? Unfortunately, this violence is not trivial or educational. Yet society condemns any form of physical, verbal or psychological violence. Penal sanctions are provided for the perpetrators of beatings and injuries, but not for those who attack children, let alone their own children. These behaviours are referred to the intimacy of the family, to the freedom of parents in the choice of education they give their children. We think that all this belongs to the family and private sphere and we do not intervene because centuries of discourse on authority have made us integrate that these gestures, this ordinary abuse, were not violence. These actions, which sometimes attack and destroy human beings, have infused our society and are ultimately no longer in question. Contrary to what is sometimes heard, violence is not educational. If it educates, it is violence, conflict resolution through violence and pain. Violence against children has made them accustomed to power and domination. She also gets them used to fear the one who has the strength, more than to respect the one who is right. In fact, a study published a few weeks ago in the newspaper BMJ Open shows that youth violence is more restricted in countries that completely prohibit corporal punishment. For example, in countries where physical punishment is totally prohibited, the incidence of youth violence is 69 per cent lower among young men and 42 per cent among young women than in non-prohibited countries. These figures should encourage us, if necessary, to legislate on the subject. While domestic violence does not kill every time, experts are unanimous about the damage they cause to children who are victims of domestic violence. This daily violence weakens the construction of future adults, who lose all confidence and self-esteem. With this bill, it is not a question of pointing a finger at anyone, but of helping to get out of this situation. It is obvious that one is not born parent, that one becomes parent. The way to build a healthy, rewarding and respectful relationship with our children is not that simple. A child to whom one does not speak and who is locked up in all-powerful physical and psychological violence cannot grow up. A child to whom limits are set only by force and constraint often has no other possible horizon than permanent fear and stress. We must therefore strengthen the policy of accompanying parenting. We must offer more mediation and meeting spaces and, above all, inform, over and over again, so that violence against children and their suffering are no longer accepted. [[Mrs Maud Petit, rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, applauds]] In my view, it is necessary to rely on this bill to develop parenting services and also to support parenting associations throughout the country. With this bill, it is simply a matter of saying that one can say no to a child in any other way than by violent acts. This bill also states that violence cannot and should not be an educational response and an acceptable solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u8	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u9	The bill that we are given to consider today is undeniably from a good intention: the will to combat violence against children. This will, of course, we share, and our right already gives us tools to combat such violence: Article 222-13 of the Criminal Code prohibits all forms of physical violence against children and makes the young age of the victim an aggravating circumstance. How, therefore, is this desire to fight harder legally reflected in this bill? You propose an addition to article 371-1 of the Civil Code, the same one which is read in the town hall during the marriage of the future spouses. You thus touch on one of the fundamental elements given in reading during marriage. This gesture, all the former mayors of this assembly, who had to celebrate these kinds of events, know it, is full of meaning and solemnity: let us bear it in mind when we legislate. So, what are you writing? You add to this article that "the holders of parental authority exercise it without violence". This new subparagraph is not accompanied by any criminal sanction against the holders of parental authority. And because we come to the limits of this bill! How do you envisage giving us the means to effectively implement this statement? If the purpose proclaimed with force is to make this law an effective lever of action to reduce abuse, school failure, illness, suicide, anti-social behaviour and delinquency, then it must be applicable, very concretely. However, the mechanism proposed here is only little operational: it states, without framing. In essence, your text raises a real question of the conception of law and leads us to question, by extension, the exercise of our mandate as legislator. Here we find exchanges that we were able to have last week on the occasion of the examination of the bill to reform our justice: French law is complex, sometimes unnecessarily. He is often too talkative or even tortuous. However, as legislators, we have a certain responsibility in this regard. We must have the daily requirement to define the law accurately and give it the means to apply in practice. The rule laid down here, of an exclusively civil nature and without related sanction, aims to set out a principle – I quote the explanatory statement – "which is intended to be repeated to fathers and mothers". Is this not the function of political discourse, of a communication campaign, rather than that of the highly structured text of the civil code, to which we must touch only with caution? The law cannot be merely symbolic: it must have a certain scope. In connection with these questions of the effectiveness of the law, which are central to me, the proposed mechanism also raises a real difficulty in defining what is common educational violence. Should we ban any education that might sometimes involve, without necessarily an obvious intention of the parents, a firm gesture to tell his son, his daughter, not to touch hot cooking plates, household products or electrical outlets? What actions are included in the "violence" box? What others could be tolerated? The proposed wording is very intelligible from this point of view. Once again, its application, while initially intended to clarify case law, does not seem obvious. If the law is not clear, how can we expect its uniform application? By failing to define precisely what you claim to be fighting against, you will fail to achieve the stated goal. The message that you send to the parents is scrambled. As you pretend to talk to them with this text, you actually point at them. You enter their homes without accompanying them. There is a strong principle to which my political family is attached: education is primarily the responsibility of parents and the family circle. Being a mother, being a father is both a beautiful and a heavy responsibility. It must be fully assumed. It is a duty not only to the child but also to the society in which he or she lives, to grow up, to make choices, to act. The role of politics, if it is to remind parents of this obligation – The Republicans have made many proposals in this direction – must also respect the educational freedom of parents. Let us be careful and measured on this point: families would not accept too much interference from us. You want to ban spanking. It's a beautiful slogan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u10	You have to read the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u11	This gesture, if not desirable, can happen. It exists. That's why you're dealing with the subject. But what will happen tomorrow to the benevolent parents who, once, and often against their will, would have been excessive in their gestures or in their words? In essence, you want to prohibit a gesture without measuring that it often responds, for parents, to a situation of despair or distress. In the face of this situation, how do you accompany them? Neither the writing of the text nor your reflections respond to it. [[Exclaims on the MODEM and LT benches]] In addition, it is very bad that this text comes from François Bayrou's political group, engaged in the 2017 election campaign but whose only political project is a slap on the street! Beyond its drafting, of which you have understood that it seems to us to be creating serious difficulties, your proposal for a law, on the substance, seems far removed from the daily concerns of the French. It is simply a collective action to distract us while other subjects occupy the French. This is an opportunity for us, as Members of Parliament, to please us: more time for legislation lost,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u12	It's called a parliamentary niche!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u13	... when, last week, we were looking at a scandalous text of reform of our justice system and we did not have the time to get to the bottom of things. Rather than a symbolic text purporting to give a lesson in education to the families of France, we could have here today worked collectively to reduce the public spending of the State, whose weight for the future is growing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u14	You must have lacked love!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u15	Spending less, spending better: this is a very concrete action for our children, which the majority has not yet committed. The unemployment rate remains at levels too high to consider that everything has been done and that it is not our responsibility to improve things. Offer opportunities for professional success in France to our children: another very concrete priority! Every day, everywhere in France, you can see that an anger is expressed. Our country is stifling under tax,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u16	And the kids under the blows!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u17	Mr. Lambert, please...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u18	...even as public services leave our territories. And you're hearing to respond to that anger by banning spanking? What will the French think of the time we spend in the Chamber today on this text, when there are no structural debates in Parliament? This is the case, for example, of the multi-annual energy programming presented earlier this week by the President in the Republic: why is national representation deprived of work on the subject? Isn't that an issue that should be of great concern to us? The ecological transition cannot be achieved without the consent of the French: why not bring the debate on this major subject into the Chamber of the National Assembly? But no, you'd rather leave it behind the thick doors of the ministries and the Elysée! For eighteen months, you have failed to improve the lives of the French and the veil rises on the failure of your action. Instead of changing course, you forbid spanking... It is time that the majority opened their eyes to the situation in the country and seized it with arms. When you do, you will find in the Republicans a force of opposition, determined to raise the country. Until then, we will not be able to vote on this text, which is only a symbol and a communication. Aware of its limits of application, you don't even go so far as to link the ban to a sanction: what a confession! You do not define the violence against which you claim to fight. It is very difficult to imagine, in fact, how this law could be applied. But I prefer to conclude on a positive note and note that beyond the text, we can share an attention and a requirement. The majority, through the voice of its ally, MODEM, today speaks of the right of the child: we naturally welcome it. It is a profound commitment for us, whose defence is the honour of France. Building on this shared commitment today, I hope that the defence of this right will continue to guide our discussions tomorrow, and that the right of the child will never fade behind an alleged right "to" the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u19	We're never disappointed with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u20	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u21	[[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] I wanted to speak on this subject, which leads us to debate, not about lessons to families but about the rights of the child, a subject that reflects our understanding of our society, its present and its future. What are we talking about? We're talking about violence against children. Because they are committed against children, they have always been minimized and judged without negative consequences – but like any violence, this is not the case. How can we conceive that violence can have an educational virtue? It's just the opposite. This text is useful. It is useful because we need to conceive differently the education of children in today's France, a non-violent education, an education of exchange and trust, a constructive and non-demeaning, non-humiliating education – of this humiliation, some of which never recover. Those are the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, this text is useful because it allows us to address a broader and more important issue, that of the rights of the child. In essence, that is what we need to talk about in a more global way. A few days ago, at the opening of the exhibition "Objective enfance", here in the National Assembly, the president of our assembly Richard Ferrand reminded us precisely of these words of Victor Hugo and invited us to a certain form of meditation: "The right of the child is to be a man: what makes man is the light; what makes the light is instruction." And he concluded: "By raising the child, we raise the future." A word that must awaken our consciences and inspire us. Children have the right to have access to education, regardless of their background or origin, an education that prepares them for the citizens they become, attached to republican principles, freedom, equality and fraternity, equality between women and men and respect for diversity. They have the right to have access to health regardless of their environment or origin. They have the right to have access to culture and sport regardless of their background or origin. They have the right to grow and build themselves personally in dignified conditions that respect the most fundamental human rights. The subject we address, the way we approach it each and every one of us speaks a lot about our vision of the society we want to build. For my part, I do not believe that tolerance, progress, openness to others and to the world are built in violence or ignorance. This subject is not a private subject, it is a public subject. A government campaign, icy and realistic, has just been launched on the subject in recent days, and I would like here, Madam Minister, to pay special tribute to your commitment to this cause. This bill is useful, because beyond the international commitments that we have made and that have been recalled in this chamber – I am thinking in particular of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted in 1989 – it asks us what respect for the rights of the child means. I will allow myself here to take up the few lines of the Parliamentary Charter on the Rights of the Child that we just signed a few minutes ago in the Lamartine room, carried out in particular by the AEDE collectives – Agie together for the rights of the child – and Objet enfance. Respecting the rights of the child is "ensuring that all children, in their diversity, can exercise their rights as set out in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Treat all children above all as children, regardless of their social or ethnic origin, gender, capacity or status. Recognize the value of children's words and experiences, and enable them to participate meaningfully in all decisions affecting their lives and that of the nation. Target the root causes of violations of children's rights by combating poverty, discrimination, including on the basis of gender, and social exclusion, while protecting children from violence, abuse, exploitation and neglect. Provide cross-cutting, integrated, child-centred solutions to meet individual and collective needs. Support families and caregivers to ensure that children grow up in stable, safe and caring relationships in an environment that ensures their well-being. Investing in early childhood, health services, quality education and community-based care and reintegration services. Establish a long-term policy for the full realization of children's rights and assess the consequences of our decisions today for future generations. » I am pleased that colleagues from all groups have already signed this Parliamentary Charter on the Rights of the Child. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the discussion of the text proposed to us today, a text which I welcome, as I welcome the work done, not only by the rapporteur but also by my colleague Alice Thourot of the LaREM Group, I will express only one wish: that in our republic, today, we are able to address the issue of children's rights broadly. It is about our future, it is about our present as well and above all about our present. Let's have the strength to make it a priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u22	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u23	A colleague Member of Parliament said earlier in this forum that there was a lot of bad faith that this bill would confuse repeated violence against children with occasional spanking. But if so, then we can stop the discussion: I think everyone will agree. No one here would have the idea of condoning or justifying regular violence against children. I even heard in committee about acts of barbarism! The problem is this: your bill wants to legislate on "ordinary" educational violence and it practices confusion, the amalgam between attacks dangerous to the health of the child and the simple punishment, ordinary precisely. I do not hide my perplexity when I see the use in the press or here of terms as nebulous as "psychological assaults" or even those famous "ordinary educational violence". As Albert Camus said, wrong to name things is to add misfortune to the world. I believe that this is precisely the pitfall in which the signatories of this bill have fallen. Indeed, this text, despite its passage in committee, still inspires me the same feelings: confusion, intrusion, guilt and denunciation. Confusion first. If the protection of children should be taken seriously, it should also be treated without hysteria, amalgam and caricature. What are we talking about? For the Red Cross, an international human rights standard, violence against children refers to any form of physical, psychological or sexual abuse or lack of care that causes injury or psychological harm to a child. The 1989 International Convention on the Rights of the Child requires us to take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child, to which France replied, inter alia, by the laws of March 2007, November 2015 or March 2016. So we are not left behind. But as often happens, too much legislation ends up losing course – no longer making a difference between a battered child who is being beaten, and who needs to be protected, and a child who has done something stupid and gets a hit on the hand or on the diaper. The word violence is misguided and the parents are disgusted. This leads me to denounce a second risk of this bill: the intrusion, not to say the interference of the state in the family sphere, in the name of a good feeling, certainly, but which becomes unbearable as it is infantilizing. Not all parents are irresponsible, resigned, outdated, or even violent. So, as too often, in a society guided more by emotion than common sense, from failures, faults, crimes of some, one puts a suspicion on all others. So yes, I repeat, the beatings, the wounds are intolerable and are to be condemned with the utmost firmness. It's obvious. But be careful not, under the guise of protection, to strip the parents of their prerogatives because, contrary to what Emmanuel Macron likes to say, there are no "children of the Republic". The Republic never gave birth to anyone. There are only children of their parents and, the state must not forget it, it is the families who raise them! Which leads me to talk about the guilt that the state places on parents. The fantasy of perfect parents – I have heard several times in committee the "good parents" – backed by that of the king's child...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u24	I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u25	... plunges our society into dramatic educational inertia. Today, a father or a mother could not, should not raise the tone on a child, put him at the corner, punish him, in short show authority, severity. Listening to each other, we would all be dangerous neurotic, unable to raise our children properly, condemnable when one of them crosses the street without looking and is inflicted a tap or spanking, because we should simply explain, never get angry, be perfect parents! Unfortunately, that's not life. We've had enough: enough to be pointed, enough to feel guilty. What you prepare for us is a family model where parents will be afraid to be denounced for a yes or a no. Of this family model, we do not want. At the time of the yellow vests, at the time of these parents who are sorting out shoes for their children, I wonder whether your bill is not tangible, concrete, indisputable proof of the gap between the real country and its representation in this assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u26	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u27	The purpose of the proposed law before us is to amend section 371-1 of the Civil Code on parental authority and the manner in which it is exercised, specifying that one of its duties is to refrain from physical or psychological abuse of the child. For the record, this is what article 371-1 of the Civil Code states in its current wording: "Parentship is a set of rights and duties for the benefit of the child. It belongs to the parents up to the majority or emancipation of the child in order to protect him/her in his/her safety, health and morals, to ensure his/her education and to enable his/her development, with due respect for his/her person. Parents associate the child with decisions that affect him/her, depending on his/her age and maturity. » Today, I invite you to state in a new paragraph that education is not violence. I note, moreover, that the title of this bill must challenge us: ordinary educational violence? How can we, in 2018, speak at the same time of banality and violence? Violence and violence are never and must never be trivial. Mrs Petit's bill also responds to a request from our society, a society that is intended to be free of violence against children. Today, too, we must act on this principle, affirmed in international conventions in our civil law, in our civil code. I would like to recall the provisions of our Penal Code which punish the parents of a 15-year-old who have subjected him to acts of barbarism or violence which led to his death without the intention of giving it up; 20 years of imprisonment for the usual violence which has led to the permanent infirmity of the child; five years' imprisonment and a fine of €75000 for violence against a 15-year-old who has resulted in an ITT of up to eight days or has not resulted in an ITT, and a fourth-class contravention for cases of voluntary violence that have not resulted in any ITT. I take this rostrum to commend the difficult work of magistrates, police officers and gendarmes in this area, and in particular the delicate mission that is theirs to collect the child's word. At the civil level, it should be added that violence against a child may also justify the removal of parental authority by the judge, when such ill-treatment endangers the safety, health or morals of the child: this is article 378-1 of the Civil Code. This evening, the Republic on the move will propose a new wording of article 1, which states that "Parentship shall be exercised without physical or psychological abuse". Every word has its importance and it is with a pen soaked in the ink of prudence that we must touch on the civil code, especially, it must be emphasized, that article 371-1 is read to all marriages. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, Maud Petit, for the work we have done together, especially since the debates in committee, in order to arrive at a drafting that is acceptable to all, affirming emphatically the principle that education is not violence. We have been vigilant, in the drafting that we are going to propose to you, so that good intentions do not lead to perverse effects for children by giving to parents, in the context of complicated separations or divorces, weapons to try to deprive the other parent of his parental authority. One last word, perhaps, to recall that a family is reciprocal rights and obligations and that the Civil Code already provides in article 371, which precedes the one proposed to be amended, that "The child, at any age, owes honour and respect to his or her father and mother. If this formulation seems outdated today, its application is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u29	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you have understood, ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously not a matter of interfering in the lives of families today, but of choosing and asserting this choice of society, a society that acts and considers that education is not violence. I hope that there will be a consensus in the House today to affirm this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u30	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u31	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u32	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u33	I welcome this article, which will provide an educational opportunity to address and prevent educational violence, even minor, within the family. This civil law approach, supported by the community, brings us together almost all of us and will reinforce our country's international commitments to children's rights. The progress proposed by MODEM is therefore a step forward that should promote benevolent parenting. This bill invites us to address in greater detail the problems of child abuse in criminal terms, as you said earlier, minister. I am thinking in particular of the children of the Social Aid for Children – ASE: they are 300,000 in France to have to be protected from their families because of parental neglect or serious physical or sexual violence. We know that our child protection system is not effective enough to allow these distressed minors to regain control and get out of it. In the absence of homogeneous structures and financial resources, owing to a lack of staff and far too long delays in taking care of them by the ESA, these children are squashed from structure to structure for years and do not receive the necessary assistance in the field of medical and social monitoring. Near-fatal consequence: they are plunged into a sense of abandonment, 70% do not graduate, and 40% of these ESA children end up on the street. Some, very young – sometimes 13 or 14 years old – turn to prostitution or delinquency. With such a poorly coordinated child protection system, social workers and ESA educators act as human bulwarks. They often devote their time and their lives to accompaniment of the children in need, but in the face of the heavyness of the system, their efforts seem to be in vain. Many social workers are now suffering from a terrible sense of helplessness. Madam Minister, I know that you are fully aware of this blind spot in our public policies, and that the Government will not resolve this. Secretary of State Christelle Dubos recently stated in this Chamber that "child protection must no longer remain that blind point that we dare not face". That is why, minister, I take advantage of this progressive bill on children's rights to ask you about the prospects for improvement of the ESA. In particular, I would like to better understand what is envisaged in the framework of national child protection and poverty reduction strategies...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u34	Thank you for concluding...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u35	...to solve our current difficulties. I would like to draw your attention to the recent report of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, which you are probably familiar with, entitled Preventing breaks in child protection pathways.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u36	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u37	Our meeting today has already been made two legislatures, when our former colleague Edwige Antier, one of the founders of the Union of Democrats and Independents, launched this initiative. I relayed it myself during the previous legislature with many parliamentarians on all sides – or almost, if I rely on what I heard tonight. On the substance, to some here, especially on the benches of the Republicans or among the non-attached, I would say that we are still not making a revolution! We are transforming the structure on which the idea that we have of the education of our children and of our own future rests. Having the impression that some have not read the text, I recall its article 1: "The holders of parental authority exercise it without violence. They must not use such means as physical, verbal or psychological violence, corporal punishment or humiliation against the child. » Who can oppose such an article? That's the whole question! Some will defend deletion amendments: what other model do they propose? That of violence, that of humiliation, that of physical and corporal punishment? There's no alternative! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With Maud Petit, whom I greet once again, we want benevolence, well-contracting. It is this, or the return to the darkness of history, where the woman, the child, the serf, the slave, the animal itself did not enjoy the rights we know! Let's get into the 21st century: this is our date tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u38	We come to the amendments. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 9 to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u39	I will therefore answer the questions that have been put to us. The purpose of this article is to insert a new paragraph after the second paragraph of article 371-1 of the Civil Code, the same one, it was recalled, which is read at each marriage. You read it again, I repeat: "The holders of parental authority exercise it without violence. They must not use such means as physical, verbal or psychological violence, corporal punishment or humiliation against the child. » Of course! No one can be against it, no one! But who puts the limits? This is a question I have already asked in committee and I have not been answered. Who's putting the limits? When you ask a child to think around, some can live it as a terrible humiliation, while others, it slides like water on a duck's wing. Who's putting the limits? No doubt that is why, in part, you have not taken the measure of what is happening outside this Chamber, in the streets, throughout the country: it is absolutely unbearable, to constantly speak of "pedagogy", of "explanations"! You should always "explain to the French", because they are not big enough to know that it is "not right" to hit their child? But who do you think they are? Any parent, except a very small minority maybe, knows very well that it's not right to hit his child!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u40	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u41	What you propose to add to the civil code is such an obvious fact that it amounts to taking the French for fools. It's unbearable. The French are able to educate their children according to their own principles, which obviously does not involve violence. When a mayor marries a couple and reads this article of the Civil Code, I would like him to take the trouble to explain what humiliation is, how far it is possible to go,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u42	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u43	...under what circumstances you have the right to scream and under what other you don't have it. You can see that's impossible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u45	That is why I am asking for the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u46	Mrs Maud Petit, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u47	This amendment, which we have already considered in committee, has received an unfavourable opinion since it removes the ban on educational violence on the grounds that it is an illegitimate interference by the public authorities in the private sphere. As I reminded you in committee, educational violence is already punishable by the Criminal Code and only case law has recognised a right of correction, which it applies in a changing way and which is worth regularly being condemned by European and international bodies for non-respect for the protection of children. We must therefore, on the one hand, comply with our own commitments and, on the other hand, come out of the confusion between parental authority and violence. If you follow your logic, violence against women is also a private matter. Besides, the right of correction of children was for during that of marital correction!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u48	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u49	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and FI groups]] An individual must not strike another individual. Thinking that you can hit someone for their good defies any reason – you said it just now. This is all the more true when it comes to children, who cannot leave their families. On the other hand, a parent may lose control because of fear, fatigue, or reproduction of certain behaviours. That is why the ban must be accompanied by awareness-raising campaigns. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u50	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u51	It is up to the State to define the duties that relate to the exercise of parental authority. A child victim of violence can call emergency number 119 "Children at Risk" and get help and protection. This is not like delation, a shocking term given the reality we are talking about. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I recall that every year a child dies every five days under the blows of his parents. The criminal law already condemns such violence, which is destructive not only of the relationship between parents and children but of the child at large. Every effort must be made to stop them and finally bring about a collective awareness. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u52	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u53	You have just said, Madam Minister: the penal code already condemns this violence! The rapporteur admits that a parent, out of fear or fatigue, can indeed raise a hand on his child, but when he does, he knows very well that he does not act "good" – even if I do not like to use this word, because it is not up to me to judge good and evil. The parent knows it very well, he is perfectly aware of it! And, for pity's sake, stop with this comparison to what to hit a child, it's like hitting a woman. Goddamn it, women are not children! You always have gender equality in your mouth and every time you talk about violence against a child – which no one can approve, that goes without saying – you say it's like when a husband beats his wife. No, a woman is not a child! I may not be as feminist as you are, but I insist very much on that point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u54	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u55	I note, Mrs Ménard, that you agree with us on the principle. Perhaps – I have good hope – we will reach a consensus tonight! With regard to the limit, it is the Penal Code which sets it. I have reported to the rostrum on the sanctions it provides for. The Civil Code, for its part, was not intended to punish, but it should be recalled. I would also point out that, together with the rapporteur and the La République Group on the move, we are proposing a new wording of Article 1. I hope you will join it. It differs somewhat from the one that was adopted in committee and on which we planned to rework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u56	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u57	I am surprised by Mrs Ménard's speech and by those of the colleagues who still have doubts. [[Mr. Erwan Balanant bursts with laughter]] I repeat a sentence from the spokesman for a party that is not far from you, Madame Ménard: "The spanking, I believe it has an educational value when it is done with the affection and love that parents have for their children. "The insult, I believe, has an educational value when it is done with the affection and love that the husband bears to his wife. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u58	Mr. Lambert, did I say that? That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u59	From his birth, and given your own positions, which are quite radical, the child is a being that must be respected. We say nothing else with this law, nothing. [["Already? Bravo! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Smile]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Of course, there will be moments of error. Turns out I've been a grandfather lately. Thank you, especially for my son! But speaking of my sons, I was a father twenty-five years ago. And who told me that I had to provide a respectful education? No one. If the civil code had been different, I would have been different.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u60	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u61	This bill allows us to lay down a clear principle. The idea is not to sanction, except in the cases provided for in the Penal Code, but to lay down a principle and send a signal to society. It is also to offer to all actresses and actors of parenting aid and medical and social circles a text on which to rely in order to avoid being in a form of "moral" saying that we must not type, nor insult, etc. There will be one principle: that of the law. It will be possible to explain what our law is, how we do it, without referring to any morals that would oppose a tradition or custom. On the other hand, denying the continuum between so-called light violence and real abuse is refusing to see reality. The overflows eventually become insults, then slaps, then, sometimes, blows with an object. This then becomes a way to educate. We must therefore put an end to this by laying down a clear rule, on the understanding that it does not constitute, as I said in committee, a prescription for education. Once this rule is laid down, everyone will educate their child as they wish, but without violence. The statute of limitations therefore applies only to non-violence, i.e. respect for the rights of children, to which we cannot derogate. It is curious, at last, that you stop at what is read during the wedding ceremonies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u62	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u63	[[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] Many other rules are set out on this occasion, which are sometimes much more difficult to explain to the spouses. I'm thinking of some who, for my part, would prefer to see it disappear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u64	I have before me two amendments, Nos 17 and 2, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u65	By this amendment, suggested by the Observatory on Ordinary Educational Violence, we wish to extend the ban on violence against children to anyone. It seems to us that the prohibition imposed must also apply to grandparents, stepparents and any adult who plays an educational role with the child. In fact, the international conventions that bind us largely contemplate those who are subject to such a ban. Article 3 of the 1989 International Convention on the Rights of the Child states that "States parties undertake to provide the child with the protection and care necessary for his or her well-being, taking into account the rights and duties of his or her parents, guardians or other persons legally responsible for him or her, and to this end shall take all appropriate legislative and administrative measures". In reality, if we want to combat all so-called "ordinary" educational violence, it is because it has a dramatic effect on children: post-traumatic shock, loss of self-confidence, traumatic dissociations, which can lead these children to violence inflicted on themselves or others, risky behaviour or prolonged depressive states. Because the damage caused by violence against children is so serious, it is necessary to impose a comprehensive, general and strong ban on all adults in charge of educating children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u66	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u67	This amendment concerns the clarity of the wording and the choice of words, on which we may have different assessments. I repeat, we still need to make some progress, even if we welcome those contained in the text. Some colleagues have argued, along with others, that it is true that articles of the Civil Code relating to spouses are read in marriage. This is an important, symbolic moment for the couples who unite, for the families who form themselves. The social body then delivers a word that must be affirmed. In this case, we prefer the clearer wording of the equality and citizenship law: "to the exclusion of cruel, degrading or humiliating treatment, including any use of physical violence".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u68	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u69	They extend the prohibition of the use of educational violence beyond the holders of parental authority. Having defended an amendment to this effect in committee, I can assure you that we share the same will in this area: no one should be able to avail himself of an educational right of correction vis-à-vis children. However, such an extension cannot be included in section 371-1 of the Civil Code, which deals only with parental authority. I therefore suggest that you withdraw your amendments: we will resume this debate by examining the amendments to the additional article after Article 1. In the absence of a withdrawal, the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u70	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u71	The aim here is to introduce an uncodified article, which would be of little practical significance. However, it is important to include in section 371-1 of the Civil Code, which defines parental authority, the obligation on parents or the holder of parental authority not to use violence. The Government would like the proposed law not only to be symbolic, but also to introduce concrete and applicable provisions into the Civil Code. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u72	Has your amendment been withdrawn, Mrs Obono?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u73	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u74	Mrs. Victory?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u75	I'm holding him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u76	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 38 and 36, as corrected. The rapporteur, Mrs Maud Petit, has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u77	Paragraph 2 is worded as follows: "Parentship shall be exercised without physical or psychological abuse. » I am pleased that we have found a compromise solution with the Republic on the drafting of the ban on educational violence. The reference to physical and psychological violence includes all forms of corporal punishment and humiliation of children. On the other hand, I wish to recall this clarification under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child: the definitions given by the States parties to the Convention "should in no way weaken the absolute right of the child to human dignity and to physical and psychological integrity by describing certain forms of violence as legally or socially acceptable". When France acceded to the Convention, it therefore undertook to put an end to all violence against children. By adopting this article, as amended in the sense I propose, we will finally enable our country to fulfil this commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u78	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor to support Amendment No 36 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u79	The content of the report has been excellently defended by the rapporteur. The group La République en marche proposes the same wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u80	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u81	I welcome the MODEM and the Republic groups on the move, which have been able to find a common position. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u82	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u83	More than reacting, I want to ask a question here to understand what this is all about. As you know, several colleagues, for many years, have been working on formulations, including with associations that have themselves worked very hard. The proposal made under the Equality and Citizenship Act has been rejected by the Constitutional Council not because of its content, but because of its place in our legal body. We therefore called for clarification in the context of this bill: as long as we vote on it, as long as we support a movement in society, it is better to be clear. This will enable our country to become one of the abolitionist countries in terms of ordinary educational violence. However, I believe that the statement proposed here contains important shortcomings: I am thinking in particular of the lack of explicit mention of verbal violence, corporal punishment – I will come back to that by defending another amendment – or the right to correction. That is the subject of my question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u84	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u85	I commend the work done jointly with our colleagues in the Republic Group on the move. Although I do not claim to answer the questions in full, it seems to me that the proposed wording allows us to comply with our international and European commitments. We must bear in mind that this is "to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or neglect, ill-treatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse, while in the custody of his or her parents or one of them, his or her legal guardians or any other person to whom he or she is entrusted". In addition to these two amendments, which will complement the definition of parental authority, our discussions are a reference. In this case, I repeat, it is a matter of bringing our country into line with commitments it has made.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u86	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u87	If we adopt these amendments, Article 371-1 of the Civil Code will read as follows: "Parentship is a set of rights and duties for the benefit of the child. Parental authority is exercised without physical or psychological abuse. » In the Law Commission, the drafting of the second paragraph had been discussed. We sought, through it, only to affirm the principle that education is not violence and, at the same time, to prevent our legislation from the perverse effect of a drafting which, leaving too much room for interpretation, would give rise to endless debates during divorces or separations. We know that texts filled with good intentions may be used as weapons in difficult litigation. We have therefore sought the best possible drafting, striving for clarity and effectiveness, in order to avoid any harmful effects in the interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u88	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u89	This amendment comes from the ground. It was inspired by the fifteen years I spent in education, with children and parents. I have seen children all too often who, every day, keep searching for limits in the school environment, milestones that they lack in their families. I also saw, on two occasions, at meetings between parents and teachers, two mothers – it could have been fathers – melted into tears because, for lack of knowing or being able to set the limits in time, they were struck by their 11- or 12-year-old boy. Physical and psychological violence are, of course, a challenge; But we need to talk about the other challenge of educational neglect, the lack of milestones. Educating comes from the Latin ducere: driving, guiding. So it's about taking the child where you want to take him, and setting limits. My amendment, in these circumstances, is simple and common sense: it tends to point out that "the absence of any educational framework given to the child constitutes an ordinary form of violence". I am somewhat divided on this bill. We heard some colleagues, such as Elodie Jacquier-Laforge a few moments ago, talk about neglect or abandonment. Yet these notions are absent from the text. Having been mayor, I would say that if, at the time of marriage, the spouses were to be given a kind of guide on the proper upbringing of the children, it should also be recalled on this occasion that education consists of providing an educational framework for the children. I am very committed to this common sense amendment. I have, moreover, discussed a lot of it around me, and have received only very favourable echoes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u90	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u91	Your amendment, my dear colleague, raises an important problem. I recognize that laxity or neglect are forms of child abuse. They need a framework – being a mother, I know what I'm talking about – and a caring but firm parental authority that helps them develop and socialize. Our society, like many others, finds it difficult to deal rationally with the question of punishment or punishment, hence the too frequent confusion between violence and authority. I believe, however, that your amendment is satisfied with the wording that I am proposing, since it already recognizes, in the absence of any educational framework, a form of psychological violence against the child. I would therefore ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u92	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u93	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u94	Are you withdrawing your amendment, Mrs Bannier?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u95	I am sorry, but I maintain it, because it concerns a state of affairs that I have seen in my daily life for years: there is indeed a violence that is practiced by negligence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u96	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u97	I support this amendment. For example, in Montpellier, there are consultations for parents in distress, deprived of the violence that sometimes emanates from children. Structures called "Anonymous Parents" bring together parents who need to talk about the fact that they no longer find a solution, that they can no longer set limits on their children who can become violent, brutal, insulting towards them. It happens, even if it is less common, that it is children who come from the violence that one has the habit of denouncing from the parents, and that the parents are overwhelmed; It is not necessarily because they have not been able to define a framework, but sometimes so, and the situation can be very frustrating for the children themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u98	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u99	It's always a pleasure to talk after Mrs. Ménard...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u100	It's mutual!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u101	...and a complicated appointment to honor. But let's keep to what we're dealing with tonight: a bill that aims to give a benevolent and well-contracted framework to the relationship that unites us with our children – which does not remove the difficulties that some parents may encounter, but could help them. By this amendment, we propose to introduce in Article 371-1 of the Civil Code an additional paragraph under which "the child is entitled to respect for his or her physical and psychological integrity". His reading, during marriage, to the spouses, called to have children after the happiness of meeting and celebrating their union, would solemnly express the need to educate them with respect, which is not always obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u103	My dear colleague, dear François-Michel, I would like to thank you for your commitment to the prohibition of ordinary educational violence. I know you have been waging this fight for a long time and I am grateful for the support you have given me in my work on the subject. I understand your approach. I myself had proposed to include in the civil code the right to education without violence. However, after reflection, it seems to me that the second paragraph of Article 371-1 of this Code largely satisfies your amendment, since it provides that parental authority must protect the child "in its safety, health and morals" and "allow its development, with due respect for his or her person". This paragraph and the one we add to prohibit educational violence will help to protect the integrity of children in accordance with your wishes. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u105	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u106	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 1. I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u107	The aim is to include in the Code of Social Action and the Family the obligation to inform families and to accompany them with a view to education without violence. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] The article we have just adopted explains that psychological or physical violence is not a form of education. But our discussions bear witness to the difficulties families can encounter in raising children. It would therefore be appropriate to supplement the ban with information and assistance in order to give parents, without interference in the way in which they educate their children, the tools to avoid any form of violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u108	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u109	We have examined in committee this amendment to include among the tasks of family policy, Article L. 112-2 of the Code of Social Action and Families, informing families about ordinary educational violence. While I fully support this objective – and this is the subject of Article 2 – I am against the amendment, because the fact that family policy is an information mission is not limited to ordinary educational violence. The Minister will be able to provide us with more details on ongoing campaigns and additional information efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u111	If we obviously agree on the objectives, it seems to us that your amendment, Mr Lachaud, is not within the scope of the law: it is a general provision on information and aid. The objective and management agreement – COG – of the National Fund of Family Allowances – CNAF, which has just been signed, promotes a policy of support for parenthood. In this context, as I said, we have planned to devote EUR 130 million to the places of reception of families who encounter difficulties in the exercise of their educational role. It is one of the main axes of the COG that binds us to the CNAF, as government action. The places dedicated to parenting symbolize our desire to accompany parents. This approach seems more pragmatic than the inclusion of a very general measure in the code of social action and families. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u112	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u113	I hear your arguments, minister. However, if the means you are referring to are already allocated, why not include the obligation of information in the law? We have been told in committee that it falls within the regulatory area, but since we have legislated on the ban on mobile phones at school, we can afford to do the same on this issue which is at least as important, if not more important! The scope of the legislative area could therefore be extended to such an extent as to make the amendment admissible. It is always good, Madam Minister, to include her objectives in the law: if the next majority does not share your point of view, we will be at the mercy of your successor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u114	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u115	I support this amendment, because it is not enough to lay down a principle: we still need to accompany its implementation in order to make it effective. As I have not been able to take the floor earlier, I take this opportunity to do so. I do not understand the argument that the wording of section 1 could be used in a difficult divorce. In this case, we should never legislate on anything that concerns children! To take everything, it is better to define principles concerning "light" violence, this will prevent those concerned from relying on articles concerning much more serious violence or criminal acts! This argument is therefore absolutely not on the road. I'd like it to be clarified. While we have managed to legislate to put an end to the right to correction of animals, it is incredible that a bill on ordinary educational violence preserves the jurisprudence of the right to correction!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u116	I have before me five amendments, Nos 25, 22, 27, 3 corrected and 19 corrected, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 3 and 19, as corrected, are identical. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u117	Under this amendment, articles L. 118-1 to L. 118-3 of the Code of Social Action and Families will be reproduced on the first page of the health book. If you will allow me, Mr President, I will defend my amendments Nos 22 and 27 at the same time, since they are related to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u118	Please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u119	Amendment No 22 will ensure the legal protection of the child. Awareness of the fact that some educational practices are related to violence will reduce the overall level of violence. The rule laid down by this amendment will not be accompanied by any new criminal sanctions against adults – this is important. I spoke earlier about my personal life. Twenty-five years ago, nothing – neither my family nor society – led me to wonder about the form of education I had to give to my children, and I deeply regret it. If at least the health book, which the young parents consult so regularly to follow the growth curve of their baby, gives them indications in this direction, it would be a way to draw their attention to these issues, while society does not do so very much and the family environment can go the opposite way. As for Amendment No 27, it is an amendment of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u120	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 3, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u121	During the examination of the text in committee, the rapporteur presented a similar amendment before withdrawing it. The Socialist and Related Group endorsed the aim of introducing a general principle of prohibiting the use of violence against children in the context of an educational function, in accordance with the recommendations of the Defender of Rights set out in his opinion on this bill, while recalling the child's right to education without violence. Why would what is desirable for parents not be desirable for educators? After all, a parent is an educator and an educator, often, is also a parent. In any case, all are referent adults, who are responsible for guiding the child. It would be interesting for all the adults around him to speak with one voice and apply the same rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u122	I call Mrs Danièle Obono to support Amendment No. 19, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Like the amendment which we have defended in Article 1, and the amendment by the rapporteur who has just been mentioned, this amendment aims to extend the prohibition of the use of violence to all persons who exercise an educational function with the child. It helps to promote the cause that we are dealing with beyond the family nuclear cell. In this sense, it has pedagogical value, in the noble sense of the term, because it can create a virtuous circle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u124	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u125	The amendments advocated by Mr Lambert aim to define educational violence and to point out that their recourse is not tolerable either within families or on the part of any other person to whom children could be entrusted. In view of the committee's consideration of the text, I have considered the drafting of similar provisions to ensure that the prohibition that we are introducing covers all educational violence well. However, despite our efforts, we have not been able, together with the Government, to find appropriate drafting. We will therefore continue this work, particularly in the context of the implementation of the inter-ministerial plan to combat violence against children. I would add that if we wanted to list educators, we could forget about them. As for the two identical amendments, they take up an initiative which I myself defended in committee. I am therefore in favour of this in substance, but, following extensive discussions with the Government and with the Republic on the move, we agreed that more time was needed to achieve a truly satisfactory drafting process. I regret this, but I would prefer that we adopt a solid and indisputable text, which can finally lead to the inclusion in the law of a formal prohibition of ordinary educational violence in the family environment, and that we continue to work with the Government to better secure the prohibitions in place in the facilities for children. I therefore ask that these amendments be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u127	These amendments have given me a lot of thought. Should measures relating to parental authority be extended from the outset? If the text restricts itself to prohibiting violence against children in the family, a fortiori someone who does not have parental authority will not be allowed to beat a child! I understand that you want the code to specify it, Mrs Obono, but what is the message we want to deliver to society? The argument that the tolerance we generally show for the right to correction, which some parents give to allow themselves to beat their children, is no longer admissible. We hope that neighbours, when they hear a child cry because he is beaten every day, can knock on the door, be surprised and not get to say in return: "I raise my child as I want. This is the fundamental purpose of this text: to protect children from this violence in everyday life. If we extend the ban from the outset to all educational circles, and of course this is the concrete result we want, we will take away its emblematic value from the message that we are delivering today to parents: there is an educational drift, and we must ensure that a number of parents become aware that the violence of everyday life is no longer admissible. Extending this ban would reduce the scope of the text, I insist, dilute its effect, limit our ability to protect children. In addition, a child protection strategy will be implemented. To this end, we will work with all educational communities to find out how to translate it. In the meantime, the mechanism proposed by the rapporteur will protect children from everyday violence, be alerted to children being beaten every day. It seems to me essential to preserve this capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u128	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u129	I misguidedly defended an amendment that will be discussed later. But Amendments Nos 25, 22 and 27 are well defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u130	I take it they're not withdrawn. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u131	We are maintaining Amendment No 19, as corrected. We really agree on the need for this bill and on the objective pursued: it is happy, because it really does not happen often. But where I am not with you, Madam Minister, is that I do not believe that if violence is prohibited in the family circle, it will be "a fortiori" for anyone without parental authority. I do not believe that this is so automatic, because it is necessary to be part of a broader cultural context than the nuclear family, which is not the only one to provide education: we must take into account the reality of the current families, the role played by the parents-in-law, the grandparents... The stepparents do not have parental authority, and yet they also educate the children! Contrary to what you say, extending the ban would not dilute the scope of the text. On the contrary, from our point of view, it would strengthen it, at least symbolically, because we would thus empower the whole social body. Everyone would be faced with his or her responsibilities as a citizen. Yes, there are difficult, delicate situations, and we all have a responsibility at a certain level. That is why we intend to participate in the debate that you have announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u132	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u133	I understand your position, minister. I myself said at the rostrum that there were times when we witnessed situations of violence and that too often we did not intervene on the pretext that this would be an internal matter to the family. But the virtuous circle described by our colleague has its relevance: we are all educators, and extending the ban gives it all its consistency since all the adults we are would be embedded in the same idea of child protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u134	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u135	I would like to make it clear that, personally, I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u136	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u137	We have seen that physical and psychological violence have a resounding effect. We focus our attention on the holders of parental authority; But you have to be able to help them. We have all witnessed the help that maternal assistants can provide in understanding the behaviour of children. It would therefore be interesting to provide for a prerequisite for the practice of the profession of maternal assistant, consisting of an introduction to the prevention of educational violence. This would enable them to approach the issue with parents and to best support them in their parenting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u139	I understand your approach, but we have already discussed it: it would not be enough to target the only kindergarten assistants because many other professionals welcome the children. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u140	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u141	We have to raise our hands, ladies and gentlemen! I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u142	I hope he knows the same fate! It is intended to include in the Criminal Code the prohibition of the right to correction. Indeed, the Court of Cassation, in a constant case-law since 2014, considers that the right of correction granted to parents by conventions, law and case-law, both internal and European, limits the absence of harm to the child, since the correction must be proportionate to the failure committed and not of a humiliating nature. This term "proportional" therefore does not clearly prohibit ordinary educational violence. Today, this right of correction seems to be recognized for parents, according to the 2014 decision, for teachers, according to a 2002 decision of the Court of Cassation, and for babysitters, according to a 2003 decision of the same court. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In the light of these case law, it seems to us imperative to include the provision that we propose in the Penal Code so that the amendments we are making to the Civil Code do not become a dead letter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u143	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u144	Your amendment is aimed at expressly including the prohibition of the right of correction in the Criminal Code. We have already discussed this in committee: I continue to believe that it is not appropriate to mention in the penal code a law that has no legal existence. The legislator has not recognized a "right of correction" and the whole issue in this text is to put an end to it. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the important work undertaken by the Ombudsman to combat educational violence and the need to take into account his recommendations, which I believe are very relevant, in the context of the future inter-ministerial plan to combat violence against children. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u146	We do not consider it necessary to provide for such a provision because any violence similar to a right of correction is already punishable under the Criminal Code. However, by laying down the principle of a prohibition of ordinary educational violence for the holders of parental authority, the proposed law will allow the full effectiveness of the provisions of the Penal Code. So your proposal seems to us superfétoire. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u147	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u148	You cannot say, Madam rapporteur, that the right of correction has no legal existence, since it is contained in the law of case law. This is what the Court of Cassation is constantly judging. Therefore, if the Criminal Code does not expressly prohibit ordinary educational violence, in the name of what would the Court of Cassation change its jurisprudence? It was not until 1923 that the said Court, precisely, returned to the manual correction of the wife by her husband. The Defender of Rights, whose work you pay tribute to, used this argument to ask the Court to reconsider its jurisprudence. It has not followed him and, constantly, the case law rules in favour of the "right of correction", in these terms, arguing for custom. I repeat, therefore, that the right of correction has no legal existence is not entirely correct. That is why it is important to expressly prohibit it in the Criminal Code. No, minister, our amendment is not "superfectory": if case law is consistent in one sense, it is necessary to legislate in the opposite direction if, as here, we want to prohibit the right of correction – and I think you really want it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u149	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u150	Mr Lachaud, I will not vote for your amendment. First of all, the Defender of Rights does not have the whole truth. We don't always agree with him...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u151	We noticed that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u152	You probably don't always agree with him either! You'll see if you read everything he writes. Secondly, the bill we are considering is intended to amend the civil code and not the penal code. We seek to affirm principles and not to impose sanctions. Finally, there are already many provisions in the Penal Code that allow for the punishment of violence against children – I mentioned several of them in my speech during the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u153	I call Mr Sebastien Nadot to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u154	In order to prevent ordinary violence, one of the areas of intervention is to provide parents with educational and behavioural benchmarks to meet their child's needs, and to help them avoid subsequent emotional or social difficulties. The health book is an important means of communication to parents. If the last model defined by the Ministry, which came into force last April, represents a certain progress – it includes in particular explanatory inserts on useful gestures and reflexes – this bill could be an opportunity to strengthen its pedagogical character in the field of ordinary educational violence. To achieve its objective, the bill must be accompanied by a communication effort to change behaviour. The amendment aims to make commitments in terms of preventing ordinary educational violence with a view to the design of the next model health book.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u156	Dear colleague, I understand your proposal. The Minister will be able to tell us a few words about the health book; For my part, personally, I rely on the wisdom of our assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u158	The content of the health book is not within the scope of the law, but within the scope of regulation – to be precise – of an order signed by the Minister. I would like to point out that the new health book, which came into effect on March 4, 2018, already contains various messages of prevention and support for parenting. A full paragraph is devoted in particular to the crying of children – it is a question of avoiding the shaken baby syndrome, which is known to have caused a number of deaths of children. So we have already started to introduce prevention messages on ordinary violence, outside of educational violence, but we can change things by a simple decree. As a result, we suggest that you not include these elements in the law. We take your request into consideration, and we will take it into account in future versions of the health book – this renewal takes place on an annual basis. If there is no withdrawal, I shall be against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u159	Mr Nadot, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u160	No, Mr. President. I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u161	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u162	The minister's arguments are convincing. This amendment is not necessary if it concerns a provision which is not within the scope of the law. I encourage my colleagues to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u163	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u164	The minister tells me that the contents of the notebook are reviewed every year...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u165	As much as you need!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u166	[[Laughs]] Since we don't necessarily have children every year, we don't follow updates... It is true that some colleagues have seven children! In any case, Mr Nadot, after the minister's explanations, we will not vote on your amendment, even if we agree on the objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u167	I call Mr Sorre to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u168	After these discussions, I doubt the minister's response to an amendment that seeks to include in the health book "the definition of parenthood, the statement of rights and duties towards their child, and the names and contact details of parenting agencies, are included in this booklet." However, I would like to present it to Mrs Cécile Rilhac, who is the first signatory. In proposing that in the child's health book, the clarification of the concept of "parentality" be included, we reinforce the idea that becoming a parent "does not invent" and requires an awareness of the duties and obligations of the parents towards the child. Becoming a parent responds to a societal challenge in order to protect children. It is also necessary to accompany all parents in their role as educators. This accompaniment is now essential. The family of the twenty-first century is no longer the same, morals change, mentalities change. It is essential that the right to parenthood should not be confused with that of the rights of the child. It is important to say what the parents' responsibilities are to their children, but above all to provide them with information and the means to fully assume this responsibility, benevolently, from early childhood until the child becomes an independent, responsible adult. These two fields must be invested and be the subject of simultaneous reflection. We ask that names and links with parenting organizations be included in the health book. It seems very important today to devulpate the parents and to offer them the opportunity to reflect on their role as both parent, educator, protector of the child, without any moral judgment. It is essential to combat child violence, but also to promote the emancipation of everyone, to offer parents a reflection on parenthood.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u170	This amendment, which is very interesting, aims to present in the health book a definition of parenthood, as well as the rights and duties associated with it. We obviously agree on the substance: the health book contains important information for parents, and it should be completed in this spirit. We have, for example, referred to the elements related to shaken baby syndrome that have recently been included in this document. However, since the content of the health book falls within the regulatory field, our opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u171	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u172	We propose that the prohibition of ordinary educational violence be included in the child's health book. We have just adopted an amendment to the Civil Code, in article 1, which will inform couples of this prohibition at the time of their marriage. However, it should be noted that today more than 50 per cent of births take place out of wedlock, so it would be normal for all parents to be informed in the same way. What better tool for this than the health book? It is a common sense measure that should not raise objections.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u173	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u174	For the reasons set out above, unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u175	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u176	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u177	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u178	Madam rapporteur, I do not think that your role is to judge the regulatory or legislative nature of an amendment or to give an unfavorable opinion on this criterion. Having said that, without going back to the precedent of the ban on mobile phones in schools – a measure that is undoubtedly a matter of regulation, but which we have been discussing for several hours – I prefer to refer to Decision No 2005-512 DC of 21 April 2005 by which the Constitutional Council decides no longer to censor the regulatory provisions adopted by Parliament, and merely to declassify them. If the Constitutional Council refuses to censor a text invoking the respective areas of the law and the regulation, in the name of what do we censor ourselves? The minister is thinking of incorporating the elements we are talking about in the annual review of the health book. We can do it tonight, it will save time and avoid having to make an additional stop. Let's simplify things, let's vote on the amendment! We will no longer need to go back to it, and the department's departments will be able to devote themselves to tasks other than the drafting of this Order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u179	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u180	[[Ms Élodie Jacquier-Laforge and Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva applaud]] It is intended to include the following text on the first page of the health book: "It is an ordinary educational violence, any form of physical or psychological violence, including any corporal punishment, regardless of its frequency or severity, against a minor child on the basis of his or her education. On this last point, I refer to what Ms Emmanuelle Ménard said. In any case, it is this type of violence that we no longer want. I do not read out the rest of the amendment, because I withdraw it after hearing the arguments of the Minister and the rapporteur. I am convinced, like them, that the law is not meant to deal with everything. But since the subject of our concern falls within the competence of the regulatory authority, I hope that the State will show genuine voluntarism, and that we will not wait a year or six months for things to move. Our common determination must be reflected as soon as possible in the evolution of health books.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u181	I have before me an amendment No 37 which is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 40 and 39. On Amendment No 37, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The minister has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u182	Before I refer to Amendment No 37, I would like to reply to Mr Lambert that the health book will soon be dematerialised, for all those who wish, in a digital health area. This will allow content to evolve much more frequently. The Government has tabled an amendment in order to be empowered to establish by order a unified operator taking over the tasks of the GIPED, the grouping of public interest Childhood in danger, and of the AFA, the Agence française de l'adoption. These are two public interest groups with national jurisdiction, which now deal with child protection in two complementary aspects. The IPTF Children at Risk is composed of two entities: on the one hand, SNATED, the national telephone service for children at risk, manager of the free national telephone number, on the other, ONPE, the National Observatory for the Protection of Children. The other IPG, the Agence française de l'adoption, is the national public operator responsible for informing, advising and accompanying families, as well as acting as an intermediary for the adoption of foreign minors under 15 years of age. A report by the Court of Auditors and a joint mission of the General Inspectorates for Social Affairs and Foreign Affairs have shown strong benefits that would result from a merger of these two operators, both in terms of public policy and management. That is why the Government has confirmed its commitment to this end on several occasions since 2016. The purpose of the amendment is to enable this approximation to be implemented by order. It is expected that this rapprochement will lead to the creation of a unified operator with competence for adoption, knowledge and prevention in child protection. This single operator will see its missions strengthened. I will cite two examples. As part of the research strategy of the National Observatory for the Protection of Children, the single operator will now be responsible for the issue of ordinary educational violence, which is the subject of the text under discussion. Furthermore, the desirability of strengthening the missions of the Agence française de l'adoption will be examined in consultation with all stakeholders to take account of the developments introduced by the law of 14 March 2016 on the protection of children with regard to the adaptation of the status of children in care. This rapprochement will give greater visibility, including to the international, the operator and his missions. It will provide a better service, thanks to greater cross-cuttingity, particularly in terms of research and support for departmental councils in the field of child protection. It will ensure better management, thanks to synergies of the support functions in the continuity of the physical consolidation of the two IPTFs on the same geographical location, effective from 1 January 2017. It is in order to take the time to define at best the concrete conditions for this merger, in close consultation with the stakeholders, that the amendment I am presenting provides for the use of an order. I repeat, the creation of a single national operator must enable us to strengthen our organisation in order to respond effectively to the challenge of protecting children in its various aspects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u183	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u184	We propose to delete the end of paragraph 2 of the Government's amendment, after the second occurrence of the word "code". This amendment was tabled out of time and was therefore not discussed. We say loud and clear that it has nothing to do with the text. We had this debate on a number of amendments, which, we were told, were not to be included in this bill and would reduce its scope. In this case, the Government's amendment should not have been tabled. Its adoption would undermine our support for this bill. It seems to us that this initiative is motivated solely by accounting reasons and that the Government takes advantage of this text to merge, in an austere logic, the GIP Agence française de l'adoption and Enfance en danger. AFA, which is responsible for adoption, is recognized by all diplomatic bodies and actors working in the field of adoption. She received an approval from the Quai d'Orsay. Children in danger continue two missions, quite different from those of AFA. The first is to prevent danger and protect children, including by receiving calls from children at risk or at risk, and from any person facing such situations, to assist in their detection and to facilitate the protection of those concerned. The second is a forwarding mission, which is to provide information of concern about these children to the relevant departmental departments, namely the collection cells of concern, for evaluation purposes. These two organizations, let us recall, have nothing to do with each other, both in terms of missions and activities. It is therefore aberrant, from our point of view, to want to merge them. This would suggest that children cared for by AFA are in danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u185	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u186	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It would blur all the messages. It would be particularly serious to introduce by amendment, in this bill, a provision motivated by purely accounting reasons. In doing so, you would question the very broad agreement that this text has in our assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u187	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u188	While our discussion was, it is true, rather consensual, we were surprised by this proposed amendment, tabled, this was said, out of time, which would allow the Government to merge by order the French Adoption and Childhood GIPs in danger. To date, AFA has jurisdiction over intercountry adoption; it is approved by the Quai d'Orsay and recognized on diplomatic ground. IPTF Children at Risk carries out prevention and research missions on abused children. This amendment concerns the associations of adoptive parents. The Government is aware of this, since the associations sent a letter to the Prime Minister on 27 November to express their concerns. Families are also concerned, as the merger of IPTFs may affect enrolment records in the course of education. Minister, we have carefully read the summary statement of your amendment; I am surprised that you are not referring to the rapprochement already under way between these two entities. You suggest that nothing has been done, while a framework agreement has been signed, which sets clear objectives, such as creating a common culture or synergizing work specific to each structure. We propose to delete the observation and study mission on the ordinary educational violence of the future unified entity, to denounce the method you used. It seems to us that this new observation mission is only here to try to justify the introduction of this amendment into the text. But, precisely, we do not understand what links him to the bill. This amendment has all the appearances of a legislative rider. Moreover, this is not a very good signal sent to the families and associations that are watching us: to deal with the issue of adoption in a text on ordinary educational violence, what a curious message, moreover, is for a text that everyone knows is 90% likely to end up in the limbos of the parliamentary shuttle! So why now, Madam Minister, and why in this text? Why did you file it without consultation, despite the explicit requests made by the associations? We consider that this approach is not very correct and call for the deletion of the end of paragraph 3 of the amendment, after the word "unified".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u189	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u190	Your amendment, Madam Minister, provides for the creation of a single structure, which will allow for the merging of children in danger with the French Adoption Agency. It is true that we have not been able to hold hearings on this subject, but the committee has accepted this amendment because it will, as you have indicated, significantly improve the information we have on child protection and better ensure the link between the relevant departmental and national services. In fact, the two structures prepared themselves for this by concluding a framework agreement protocol in 2017, which allows them to gradually reconcile on the basis of what unites them: the interests of the child, but also the questions of parenthood. The committee is therefore in favour of this amendment. I want to say to our colleagues that I understand their concerns, but that this merger is in line with section 2 of the bill. As a personal matter, I will therefore be against the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u191	What is the Government's opinion on the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u192	To be more precise, this rapprochement follows a long path, marked by a report by the Court of Auditors and a joint report by IGAS and IGAE, which concluded that this rapprochement was necessary. The two IPTFs were geographically grouped in 2017, and we continue to move forward according to the expected trajectory: there is therefore nothing unexpected for the actors concerned. It seems to us, however, that there is a need for further cooperation before the merger itself can be completed. That is why we are asking you to empower us to legislate by order, which will allow us to take the time for consultation, before this draft text is presented to you again – we will obviously have time to review it together. It is simply an authorization to work by order on this merger, which has been planned for a long time, which will allow us to engage in in-depth consultation with the actors. In this way, we wish to respond upstream to the concerns that have arisen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u193	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u194	You're definitely incorrigible! Here we had a text that was almost unanimous and a beautiful symbol. You told us, moreover, that the symbol should not be reduced, that it should not be dispersed, this text aimed at amending the civil code and not the penal code. At the last moment, however, you come with an amendment that has not been the subject of any impact assessment while it will upset two bodies, each of which has its own usefulness and is recognised in their field. Why in this text, why so quickly, why not prepare a bill, minister, if this provision is so necessary? Why an authorization to legislate by order, when you tell us that you want to enter into a consultation? Withdraw this amendment, implement the concertation, draft a bill and submit it to us, but do not pollute an important, symbolic debate that could bring us together very widely by such a measure which, in fact, mortgages a massive vote in favour of this bill. Minister, break with the logic of always brutalizing everything. You are breaking the time limits, Parliament, by using the orders, you are brutalizing a MODEM bill, which did not want it to be amended in this way – there is almost nothing left of the original text. Let's be a little serious. Either we're here to validate the department's decisions...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u195	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u196	... including in the parliamentary niches, either Parliament has a role to play in this country. It must be noted that, if you maintain this amendment, Parliament will only be there to validate the decisions of the department at a time when the department wants to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u197	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u198	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It seems to me that you are taunting this day, which was characterized by a beautiful unity – I would also like to congratulate the MODEM colleagues. I have the feeling that you are stealing from us this bill, of which I am co-signatory with Maud Petit, and which is of great interest to us. We know that the provision you are proposing to us had remained in the boxes of Mrs Rossignol, the former Minister for Families, Children and Women's Rights, but we are not here to exhaust this stock. Find another way to get her to vote. One week after the vote on the power to legislate by order to amend the Juvenile Justice Ordinance of 1945, at a time when we are drafting an important bill for young people, I believe, you have come again to ask us, on the issue of minors, for an authorization to legislate by order, this time to ensure the merger of two public interest groups. Before the afternoon sitting was adjourned, I asked a number of colleagues: almost none knew about this amendment. How can an opinion be formed under these conditions? I'm not even talking about the bottom. You are asking us, without any impact assessment, to vote on an amendment tabled the previous day, which deals with matters of great importance to us, and on which it is difficult to reach an opinion. As my colleague said earlier, while we are debating the fight against educational violence, you are asking us to include in this text a provision concerning adoption. This is a curious message you send to future parents looking for an adoption. It is not in this text that this should be introduced. You are going to give birth to a huge legislative rider, even though this provision has been censored by the Constitutional Council in a former bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u199	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u200	I will, of course, follow in line with what my colleagues have said. On the substance, I have still not understood the usefulness of proceeding with this merger now. On the form, you will recognize that it is really unpleasant for parliamentarians that we are working in this way, to be seized this evening, brutally, of this proposal, which is also to empower the Government to legislate by order. This is indeed not the first time that this has happened, and we are very upset about it. This amendment is submitted to us at a time when, as has been said, we were very in favour of the text. To say the least, it is clumsy and, in any case, extremely unpleasant. It is not respectful of the right of national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u201	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u202	I agree with our colleagues that, from a formal point of view, there is no doubt that there is a problem. However, I want to believe that we can show unity on this text. We have no doubt found a drafting that is suitable for everyone and that makes it possible to affirm an important principle, namely that education does not go through violence. Minister, we all want to join on this bill and on this principle. I would therefore ask you to reassure us, as parliamentarians, that we do not have all the elements. So that we can vote on your amendment, could you please re-explain the process, confirm that this is expected by the two administrations in question, and ensure that there will be no downsizing, no matter what decision we can make tonight? I believe that this last point is important – as you mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, sitting on the benches on the left: we are concerned, which is quite normal, about the staff of these services. So that we can take an informed decision and, if necessary, adopt your amendment, I would ask you, Madam Minister, to repeat these elements, which would ease the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u203	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u204	Edwige Antier, who is present tonight in the stands, started working on this topic of educational violence in 2011. While we are very close to a goal that we have been looking forward to for so long, the Government is brutally submitting this initiative to us. That's really unfortunate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I am thinking of the other 54 countries that have already adopted this approach to education which, far from any educational violence, is oriented towards benevolence and well-contractedness: I do not think they have taken this debate lightly. These are the very foundations of what we are in the process of establishing in society that to explain the meaning of the education we want for our children, that is to say for our own future: what kind of society do we want? We see the extremely positive consequences of ending violence in education for the benefit of benevolence and well-contracting; Sweden, Germany and so many other countries demonstrate this. But here comes this very technical amendment – not only because a colleague from the running Republic has just been concerned about the risks to employment as well. Therefore, Madam Minister, I have the outrage to ask you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u205	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u206	This text concerns ordinary educational violence, Madam Minister. That is not what you are talking about in your amendment at all. It comes from a completely banal, well-known and perhaps one-day bill against which we would have to table a bill. This is an illustration of ordinary administrative violence! It is a pressure in an administrative process that is somewhat blocking: the tabling of an amendment that has absolutely no chance of achieving within a time frame consistent with the process of rapprochement that you are presenting to us, given the play of the parliamentary shuttle and the political composition of our respective assemblies, is solely intended to show these two public bodies that it would be time for the process to accelerate because otherwise, "we, the Government, are ready to do so". Another blow of pressure, an ordinary administrative violence, without any foundation. You are referring to efficiency gains and structural savings while the two organizations are already grouped together in the same premises and already share a number of means. It must be noted that there are no more savings to be achieved and that these two structures are now carrying out very different tasks – tasks that you want to expand during the merger without entrusting the new unified operator with additional resources. Finally, I would like to go back to one point raised by a number of colleagues: it is still a mess to slip the issue of adoption into a text on educational violence. Such a mixture of genera is particularly incomprehensible. Minister, I can only ask you to stop this administrative violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u207	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u208	Just a remark to the Government: Madam Minister, in fact, you are mistreating Parliament and you are misusing this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u209	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u210	You said yourself that there was a need for a time of consultation. Well, the Government must understand that consultation, consultation and debate take place as a matter of priority with Parliament and not systematically through ordinances when an important issue emerges. No, the Socialist and related group does not want this order. And I am speaking to MODEM: I would like to understand what his opinion is when his bill is taken hostage...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u211	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u212	... while it was gathering very widely. I, first of all, would no longer be able to vote on this bill if the Government's amendment were adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u213	We've got to get this off at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u214	[[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] We need to know what we want in life: do we want Parliament to have its full place and develop the law, or do we want to refer important matters to ordinances, as has too often been the case since the beginning of this legislature? Madam Minister, you yourself have spoken of consultation: organize it with parliamentarians when the Committee on Laws itself has not been able to study your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u215	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u216	Madam Minister, like my colleagues, the procedure of the orders irritates me. But the question that concerns me is efficiency. Will your proposal make the service rendered more effective? That's the point. I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u217	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u218	[[Protests on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] There is no administrative violence in this government amendment, only the desire to respond to a need. This merger between the "Enfance en danger" IPTF and the Agence française de l'adoption has been planned since the 2013 reports and the new law on adoption in 2014. The actors have come closer and work in the same place; The presidents of the two IPTFs are waiting for this merger, as are the presidents of the departmental councils who need it to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u219	What about efficiency?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u220	[[Exclaims on various benches]] But there has been no possible legislative vector until today and there will be no other for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u221	But it comes at the last moment anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u222	This concerns children at risk: we are debating IPED, and it is it that manages number 119, that of the national telephone service for children at risk, as well as the National Observatory for Child Protection, which I will ask to collect from the departmental councils data on ordinary educational violence. Because we do not have exact figures, we do not know how many children are beaten in France. It is this observatory that will make it possible to have concrete data.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u223	This has nothing to do with the subject we're dealing with tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u224	And they're not methods!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u225	In no case would what is proposed result in a reduction in resources or a reduction in staff: it is a way of rationalizing the cooperation of people already working on the same subjects, knowing that the AFA deals with the adoption of State pupils and adoptions abroad, and is also interested in violence against children. All of this will lead to a rationalization of child protection services. I repeat that they have been waiting for this merger for years. [[Protests on the benches of the FI, GDR and Soc groups]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Empowerment is not violence: it consists in asking Parliament for the right of the Government to work on a merger that you will have to validate by a law of ratification. It is an authorization to move forward.If you do not incorporate this authorization into this bill, we will have no legislative means to achieve it. I repeat that for years all the departmental actors, the associations, the presidents of the two IPTFs and the staff have been waiting for this merger. You have all the keys in your hand. There is no violence, there is a need to do better in order to have an observatory capable of bringing back to us concrete data enabling us to steer the policy of child protection, which is now blindly piloted, due to the lack of tangible data.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u226	And all we have to do is say "yes" or "no"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u227	Before we proceed to the vote, ladies and gentlemen, I have agreed to give the floor to eight speakers when our Rules of Procedure state that I could have given it to only two speakers. But on the basis of the content of the debate, which Mrs Ménard and Mrs Faucillon wish to react, I shall take two or three more speakers in response to the minister, and we shall proceed to the vote. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u228	I'll be very brief. You tell us that these two organizations have been waiting for their merger for years; Can you explain why you waited the last minute to table this amendment, which could not therefore be discussed in committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u229	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u230	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u231	I will complete the question: is it not because Mr. Attal did not do his job at the time, in Mrs. Rossignol's office?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u232	I wasn't there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u233	And if it were really urgent, it was possible to table amendments at the committee meeting last week. That's not credible, minister, what you're telling us here! If the project has been in the box for three years and there is an urgent need, why didn't you tell the committee last week? One possible answer: you don't care about Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u234	Yeah, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u235	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u236	I am sorry to announce to you, minister, that if you thought you would calm down with your intervention, you did the opposite. It is extremely violent to explain to us that there is no brutality while planting a bill when you know that using such methods is, if only in the form, taking the parliamentarians to the wrong. And basically, you're saying that the project has been in the boxes for years, and we're supposed to believe you on the floor without having anything to do with the debate. You don't deign to give us any explanation... Mr. Attal, you seem to find this very funny... As for you, La République en marche, you can be proud of having managed to disgust MPs who were ready for consensus on a subject that we care about... Yes, Mr Attal, keep laughing like that, it is very respectful, it is very worthy...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u237	Mrs Obono, I have given you the floor to respond to the Minister's remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u238	You don't have any lessons to teach, Mrs. Obono!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u239	Mr Rebeyrotte, if you could not add any more, it would be better.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u240	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I'm going to calm down, but I wanted it to be said and heard because what you're doing here is frankly disgusting for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you that if the Secretary of State, Gabriel Attal, is already here, it is waiting for the next bill to be discussed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u242	He also represents the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u243	[[Exclaims on various benches]] ... and we are very pleased to welcome him to the bench of ministers, but it is not a question of questioning him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u244	He's in the bench of ministers! We can call him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u245	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u246	[[Other movements]] Colleagues, we are dealing with a subject that is important enough to try to bring pressure down again. I ask for a five-minute suspension of the sitting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u247	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u248	The meeting was resumed. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, I understood that this amendment with an additional article after Article 1 – which was intended to be practical, pragmatic for child protection actors, and which met a need – should not, in your view, be included in a proposal for a law aimed at asserting a fundamental principle: that of non-violence in education. I understand that the two things are not of the same level: such an additional article was merely a legislative vehicle to serve the actors concerned on a well-identified need. I hear you are shocked that a government amendment proposes an additional section in a bill that you consider to be a whole. Not wishing to shock Parliament, I will therefore withdraw the government's amendment, while regretting it for those on the ground who needed it. I do not know when a new legislative vector will come. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups. – Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva and Mrs Michèle Victory also applaud]] However, I hear the request of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u250	Mr Bourlanges, we are not going to reopen the debate. However, the rapporteur, who wishes to add a word before we move on to Rule 2, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u251	[[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LaREM, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] I won't be long. Madam Minister, thank you for withdrawing this amendment because I know that it was important for you to find a legislative vehicle for this merger. It is true, however, that this was probably neither the place nor the time here tonight. Thank you for understanding that cohesion around the bill was a priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u252	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u253	Article 2 proposes the submission of a report from the Government to Parliament before 1 September 2019 "... presenting an overview of educational violence in France and assessing the needs and means necessary to strengthen the awareness-raising policy [...]". I simply observe that the Government is in general always quick to refuse reports when they are proposed by the opposition: this will probably be an exception. I ask a question: how can this report be drawn up since, by definition, you will only have access to data on serious violence, but none of the data relating to what you want, you, prohibit, i.e. pat on the hand or on the diaper, screams of anger or punishment, which you consider to be humiliation? What exactly will this report recover?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u255	We have already explained why it was important that section 2 be included in this bill. We must give priority to the support of parents and the training of professionals, especially early childhood. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u256	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u257	It is legitimate to allow parents the choice of whether or not to receive support in the education they decide to give to their children. That is the purpose of the clarification that we wish to make.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u258	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u259	This amendment, which we have already rejected in committee, leads me to answer that, at present, support for parenting is being given either by voluntary parents who agree to engage in a reflection on their educational methods or by order of the judge. These are the most serious cases of abuse. Therefore, the clarification you wish to make is not acceptable, since it would be tantamount to saying that the choice to resort to educational violence, and therefore to violate the law, only concerns the parents. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u260	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u261	If I suspect that we will not have lengthy debates at this late hour, I nevertheless want to defend this appeal amendment. It is intended that the report provided for in Article 2 should examine the desirability of a significant increase in the length of paternity leave. In accompaniment for better co-parentality, such an evolution would prove extremely useful. Indeed, we see how the fact that both fathers feel deprived in parenting, that they sometimes do not even exercise at all, and that mothers find themselves alone in taking on all the related tasks, does not help to be able to live serenely parenting. I hope that during this Parliament you will have the opportunity to submit a text to us in this direction. In any case, we will fight for significant prolongation of paternity leave.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u262	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u263	Your amendment, which you yourself refer to as an appeal amendment, raises a very important question, which undoubtedly contributes to the difficulty some couples experience in welcoming their children in good conditions. It is, however, quite distant from the purpose of this text. I hope, however, that we will be able to legislate on this point on another occasion. I would therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u264	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u265	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u266	Mrs Faucillon, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u267	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u268	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u269	I thank you, Mrs Faucillon, for allowing us to have this debate, which is central to equality between women and men, because we know that it is in the first few days after the arrival of a child that bad habits take place, which mean that most of the household chores are based on women and that they are no longer shared as they could be before the arrival of the child. I myself have tabled a bill to extend the period of paternity leave in case of premature birth or hospitalization of the newborn. Madam Minister, you have responded to this, following the IGAS report, in the Social Security Financing Bill, by promising such an extension. We therefore await implementing decrees and decrees. Paternity leave should be aligned with the leave granted to mothers, in order to enable real equality between women and men and a genuine burden-sharing of a child's upbringing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u270	A burden...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u271	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u272	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u273	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u274	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u275	The La France insoumise group will enthusiastically vote for this bill. We regret, however, that our amendments could not be adopted because they would have enriched it and allowed us to go further in the right direction. Of course, we will be vigilant about the regulatory implementation of the Minister's commitments. In any case, a major step is being taken today to make it clear that violence is not a form of education, that it is even the opposite, and that it is through the eradication of this unfortunately so-called ordinary violence that we will be able to move towards a society where the relations of domination will be much less dominant. We hope that this bill can quickly be placed on the Senate's Orders of the Day, passed and returned for a final reading. We are counting on the Government to register this bill itself, without waiting for a political group to be forced to use one of its niches. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR, SOC, MODEM and REM]] I would like once again to acknowledge Maud Petit's work, which she has conducted in liaison with many groups. As co-signator of this bill, I welcome the unanimity that is emerging around it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u276	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u277	There are times when we have to rise to the stakes. Of course, tonight we could have missed, as we saw a few minutes ago. But we finally rise to the level of society of non-violence, benevolence and well-contracting – the last term is Edwige Antier herself – that we want to build for our children. How can we go to a society that embraces the idea that the other, far from being a person to be confronted, is a person with whom we have to build, especially when it comes to our own children and their own family? No, the child must feel and feel that he lives in a space of trust and co-construction, that he and we have the capacity to build a new world and a new model, to emerge from this terrible twentieth century, which has experienced two world wars and unfortunately so many others. I am thinking in particular of France's wars in other countries whose decolonization it did not accept. And there are still other conflicts. Let's move on! As we move forward for peace in Europe, following almost all European countries and more than fifty countries around the world, let us move forward for peace within our society and our families, proposing what I did not have the chance to benefit twenty-five years ago! Twenty-five years ago, I couldn't imagine that in the face of a difficulty, in the face of what I could see as a confrontation, a sign of distrust, a deviance from my child, there was another possible reaction than violence – a spanking, a tape, an insult, a punishment, or even more. Because it was the education I had received myself. I want to thank the person who woke me up a few years ago and to whom I believe we all owe something today. She was the one who told me that there was another way, that it was possible to give up the way I had taught my children myself. That's the message we're sending this evening to the French. I would like to finish this speech by warmly applauding Edwige Antier, who is in the gallery tonight. The first, it rose in this Chamber; Marie-Anne Chapdelaine, François de Rugy and I took over from her during the previous legislature, and it is now the turn of Maud Petit and so many other colleagues. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Tonight, we can be proud of what we are doing. The LaREM Group will of course vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u278	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u279	We can indeed be proud of the work that has been done this evening. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, I thank the Minister for having withdrawn her amendment to enable us, I hope, to vote on this bill almost unanimously. I would also like to commend the rapporteur for her commitment, tenacity, determination and sense of pedagogy. She has been working on this text for a year, in the continuity of her predecessors: let her be thanked. I now want to wish this bill a pleasant journey. It is true that things will go faster if it is placed on the Senate agenda by the Government. It will also allow us to consider in a calm manner the amendment that the minister wanted to present to us. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I would like to conclude my speech with a quote that each of you probably knows: "Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of the call of life to itself. They come through you but not from you. And although they're with you, they don't belong to you. You will of course have recognized the words of Khalil Gibran.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u280	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u281	It is true that this evening ends well, despite the turbulence we experienced earlier. That means we were all gone with the idea of moving things forward. The law does not do everything, but the law, in words, says things. And when you put words on evils, you can move on. Each of us must now be aware of his responsibility as legislator, of course, but also as an individual: for this law to have a real echo, we must be able to uphold it and make it live on a daily basis. Legislative work is one thing, but we must also have the courage to enforce the law and get to the end of the proposals we have made. We can't just write texts from an overhanging position. This text really gives us an opportunity to be both in legislation and in everyday life, in full agreement with what we believe is essential for our society, namely respect for the child. It is absolutely necessary to stop, and this will one day be the case, placing children in such situations of suffering. I would like to thank everyone tonight, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u282	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u283	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work, to which she has associated me, and all the colleagues in this House. I also want to thank the minister for her understanding and for the gesture she made tonight. It is with enthusiasm that the La République en marche group will vote for this text, which finally notes that the exercise of parental authority is not violence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I think we are going to live in a moment – at least that's what I was hoping for at the beginning of this sitting – a suspended moment, as happens too rarely in our Chamber, a moment of unanimity on this vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u284	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u285	I, in turn, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, wish to greet all those who have contributed to the drafting of this bill, including Maud Petit, as well as his predecessors and predecessors. I am also thinking of all activists and activists who want to abolish ordinary educational violence. I know that some of them will experience a little disappointment with Article 1, which has been slightly planed, but I want to tell them that we will ensure that the provisions contained therein become effective: we will put our energy into it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On my way, I met a doctor who likes to repeat that it takes a whole village to educate a child. I think we have at least helped lay the foundation stone of a village that is becoming less and less violent. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u286	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u287	On behalf of the IDU Group, Action and Independents, I would like to point out that this is not the spanking we are talking about tonight. Tonight, we write in the Civil Code that violence is not allowed to be used to educate a child. This evening, France is honouring the commitments it has made at the international level: we are bringing ourselves into line with the international treaties that we have signed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Tonight, we proclaim that violence is not education, that it has no educational value. French parents are now informed, since it is enshrined in the law. It went without saying, but it is now in the law. This evening, we, as parliamentarians, are committed to working alongside the minister, who has already opened this project, to improving the arsenal at our disposal to combat ill-treatment and to protect French children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u288	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u289	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 54 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 51 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u290	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u291	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u292	The next item is the debate on Mrs Sarah El Haïry's bill to improve the cash flow of associations (No. 1329, 1415).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u293	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u294	Mr President, you have just suspended the meeting and you have understood that we are going to have a problem. We are in a parliamentary niche day and this evening's sitting must be adjourned at one o'clock in the morning. It is midnight, spent more than twenty-five minutes, and we have barely more than half an hour left to begin consideration of this important bill. Associative life in our country is a considerable number of volunteers and 1.5 million associations. We should be able to devote time to this. But we will probably only be able to hear the rapporteur and the minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u295	That's good already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u296	... which will probably speak for a long time – I hope, in any case, given the importance of this subject. It seems to me a shame to start examining this text at such a late hour: we will not have time to discuss it, even though some of our colleagues have been waiting all day to discuss it seriously. It would be better to examine it at another time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u297	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u298	This is an important subject, but there is no urgent need for us to start a debate this evening that we will not be able to complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u299	I have taken note of your comments, Mr Schellenberger. However, this bill is on the agenda and is part of the niche of the Democratic and Related Group. I therefore propose that you begin its examination.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u300	Sarah El Haïry, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u301	Despite the late hour, it is with a certain emotion that we go up to this rostrum when we defend a text that we have designed together, which has sprouted, which has grown and which we have accompanied for months. Associative life has been chosen by my group, MODEM, as the thread of its parliamentary days. It is therefore quite natural that this text is in line with the plan, the first step of which was the motion for a resolution defended by my colleagues Sylvain Waserman and Michel Fanget, which was voted unanimously by our House, which is a testament to our interest in the involvement of associations on all sides. Our day of parliamentary initiative in November also makes it possible to highlight an axis that echoes the budget tunnel that our Parliament is going through at the end of the year. Finally, we can lay a small legislative stone at the end of the month of the social and solidarity economy, to which I believe a great deal and to which the associations contribute a great deal. Associations occupy an important place in our economy with 1.8 million employees who represent 5% of the national wage earner. If voluntary engagement were to be more valued, we would have turned it around. By taking SMIC as the reference value of working hours, the voluntary contribution would amount to more than EUR 19 billion. If we dared to value the working hour at the reference wage paid to associative employees, it would be EUR 39.5 billion. These figures are only to give an accounting dimension to things, because the real issue is elsewhere. It is in the immaterial, the transcendence of self, the human relationship, the commitment, to do it together, to form a community, and as we wish a community of commitment, it is our duty to accompany these places of brewing, listening and emancipation of men and women, which are associations. The association, by construction, is deeply democratic, and certainly republican. Let us not forget that the aim of any political association is to preserve the natural and imprescriptible rights of man, in the words of 1789. In mirror, the goal of any association is to make live the bond and passion of those who have decided to meet together to advance. Where natural solidarity disappears, the association takes the place. Where the police failed, the association took over. Where two have decided that they will do three, we must allow them to choose this path. Our associations need funding to operate. While the share of public funding accounted for 51 per cent of their resources in 2005, this share fell to 49 per cent in 2011. Since then, it has been steadily shrinking. Government subsidies increased from 34 per cent to 24 per cent of resources. The public partnership has changed dramatically. We have gradually moved from the spirit of subsidy to that of public procurement, of instrumentalisation. From now on, associations are tools of public policy. In the face of this decline in public funding, they have turned to the private sector, which is now their primary source of funding. Since 2012, the amount of tax exemptions related to donations to associations has been higher than the amount of subsidies paid by the State. In addition, most of the private resources come from the members of these associations, through contributions or participation in the services rendered. As the public authorities have changed the rules, it is our duty to accompany these developments within each text, but also through new texts such as that of today, by removing obstacles, by granting new means to diversify the sources of funding, by trying to live up to the challenges of everyday life, in our territories, the associations. After several months of work, led by institutional actors and the community movement, no less than fifty-nine proposals were submitted to the Prime Minister at the presentation of a report by the community movement last May. While the Government has just presented its plan of action, this bill contains four of the fifty-nine proposals contained in the above-mentioned report. They all respond to the same need to support the development of associations by enabling them to strengthen their own funds and to obtain new forms of financing. Article 1 provides for the possibility for associations to retain a surplus, within the limits of reasonableness, corresponding to the remainder of an unspent grant, in order to enable them to finance their development. In fact, subsidies are always calculated as fair as possible and any remaining funds, even if they result from good management on the part of the association, are usually taken over by the public authorities which have paid them. Therefore, if there is nothing to prevent them from making surpluses, provided that they do not give rise to a division between their members but are reinvested in their activities, the associations find it very difficult to build up own funds. This notion of a reasonable surplus is already included in a Prime Minister's circular, but we invite you to include it in the law. The purpose of Article 2 is, like inter-firm loans, to enable the associations of the same network to grant loans between them in order to facilitate the creation and start-up of new structures. By definition, this measure should cover only small sums, mainly at the time of the creation of a local association of an existing network, for example. This financial lender activity will naturally remain incidental to the activities of the associations or foundations concerned, so that they can maintain their non-profit-making and public utility. Article 3 must make it possible to allocate the proceeds of the bank accounts in disinherence of associations, managed by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to the Fund for the Development of Associative Life – FDVA. The wording we have adopted in committee is intended to be more operational than that originally tabled. Article 4 provides for the authorization of the State to entrust to recognized associations of general interest the management of immovable property of which it has become the owner in the course of criminal proceedings. The procedures for seizure of immovable property are implemented by the seized and confiscated asset recovery agency. During her hearing, the Director General of the agency referred to the diversity of buildings in management throughout the national territory, some of which could perfectly correspond to the needs of the community. These four proposals, which were already included in a 2014 report of the High Council for Association Life, are now the subject of a broad consensus within the voluntary sector and are expected with some impatience. They were also unanimous in the Law Committee. Two of them had even been adopted by Parliament during the vote on the Equality and Citizenship Act of 27 January 2017, before being censored as legislative riders by the Constitutional Council. Finally, Article 5 provides for a report to be submitted to Parliament on the state of taxation in connection with donations in order to allow the development of a form of French philanthropy. We are many here to think that associative engagement is often the starting point of a life of commitment, that associations shape our society and are often at its vanguard, that the Republic we cherish so much would be dull if, in our rural or urban territories, associative life did not bring about the fraternity that makes our motto so lively. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Because the world of associations is not the monopoly of anyone, of any bench, of any current, because associative life is as universal and diverse as our country, I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that your votes on this bill which will serve our society and our Republic will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u302	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u303	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is not without some emotion that I present myself for the first time at the rostrum of this Assembly as a member of the Government. Not so long ago, indeed, I was still sitting among you. The emotion is all the greater as we look at an essential subject, that of associative life. With 22 million volunteers and 1.3 million structures, the associations are a treasure of the Republic. In the territories, they provide daily support for projects and actions of general interest, participate in the informal education of the children of the Republic, promote access to culture for all, access to care, and promote democracy on a daily basis. They act day after day, mostly on a voluntary basis, disinterested, without capital interest, for the benefit of the community. So first of all, I want to thank them here for their action, as I have already had the opportunity to do this morning when I presented my road map. Nevertheless, the associative world is at a turning point, when many changes are taking place, where working methods are changing, as in society as a whole, where the habits of the actors are changing, where the profile of the volunteers and the modes of action are changing. These changes also result in a repositioning of the state as an accompanying, supporting, helping actor, but cannot act solely through the prism of public spending. The development of associations also depends on the support of the public partners who accompany them and help them grow. The year that has just passed has given rise to doubts in the associative world. It would be dishonest not to recognize him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u304	It's an understatement!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u305	The end of assisted jobs has crystallized fears. If this is necessary because no structure benefits from receiving disguised subsidies through job financing, whereas these resources were neither stable nor recurrent, that this mode of operation could blind on projects and associative models and that three out of four beneficiaries were not permanently integrated into employment, it is equally essential for us to rethink the solidity and sustainability of associative models by promoting the diversification of economic, organisational, governance and collaborative work models. We are doing this by persevering the reduction in social contributions, which will enable us to return €1.4 billion to the voluntary sector on 1 January next. It would be necessary to go back a long way to regain direct financial support of this magnitude in favour of the associative fabric. Next year, the payroll tax tax credit will be added to these reductions in contributions, bringing an additional EUR 500 million to associations employing more than ten employees. This is unprecedented financial support for associations, but we need to go even further and that is what I want to tackle with you. This morning I presented my road map to the community movement. It is structured around three axes. Several of the measures contained in it are reflected in this bill and I would like to commend the remarkable work of the rapporteur, Sarah El Haïry, who has been able to involve the actors on the ground, listen to them, in order to bring before you a text that has been awaited for years. I thank him very much, but also all the Members who have joined him in committee. I am thinking of Fabien Matras, of the La République group on the move, but also of many other parliamentarians from all the benches. The aim of this text is to improve the cash flow of associations, which are essential for their action and development. The first is to accompany the transformation of these structures, and to help them become more robust and sustainable. This requires mutualization and joint work, but also cultural change. Associations have often developed in a logic of individual development, or even competition, when several of them operate in the same sector, in the same territory. To get out of this logic, we need a stable, reliable partner capable of supporting those of them who wish to regroup, and this partner is the state. Calls for projects will be launched in all the territories with the aim of reaching 200 associations of employers in the coming year. "FONJEP posts", supported to the tune of EUR 7000 per year for three years by a grant from FONJEP – the Youth and People's Education Cooperation Fund – will be created; seed grants for clustering will be granted; administrative formalities will be simplified; the Employment Impact scheme will be extended to associations with up to 20 employees compared to 10 today; The Asso account will be modernised to accommodate a range of digital digital services so that all the steps, in particular grant applications, can be carried out on a centralized platform. Three articles of the proposed law are particularly relevant to this first axis. Section 1 allows associations to retain reasonable surpluses in the use of a public subsidy. This provision, if adopted, will strengthen the performance logics without negating the general interest mission of the associations, which will also enable them to strengthen their own funds so that they can tomorrow have the means to invest and develop their action in the territories. Article 2 contains an essential measure for the simplification of the lives of associations by allowing them to make loans at zero rates between the structures of the same group of employers or federation. It is also an incentive for the pooling of skills and resources, which is a major lever for the development of the associative world. To this end, it will be necessary to overcome the feelings of competition or animosity arising from the past: this is often the condition of a stronger dynamic, of the transition to a higher scale or, quite simply, of the realization of the first job, a project which can be difficult to carry out for an association alone. Finally, Article 3 introduces the possibility of recovering funds from inactive voluntary bank accounts which, after 30 years, are now paid into the general budget of the State. Last year, 1.9 billion euros of inactive bank accounts were so: yet a share of this amount comes from the inactive accounts of associations. With Article 3, it will now be possible to ask the banks to identify them and evaluate their share, a part which I hope, like the rapporteur, will be reused for the development of associative life. The funds of the associative world could thus return to the associative world: this possibility, which seems to be of unstoppable logic, does not exist at the present time. This money will help to develop associations. The second focus of my road map is on valuing and recognizing everyone's commitment throughout life. I will not detail all the strong measures announced this morning. The first is the possibility for volunteers to validate free state certifications of skills acquired through volunteering. In terms of project management, communication or grant research, volunteers must be able to validate skills and value them in the context of professional integration. This is now possible within the framework of the CFGA – certificate of training in associative management – which is offered to volunteers receiving training provided by the Fonds de développement de la vie associative – FDVA. We hope that this possibility will now apply, free of charge, to all voluntary associations which wish to do so. Tools such as MOOCs – a massive open online race – will help us develop these certifications, which will be a very concrete advantage for volunteers. The second measure is the enlargement of the citizen engagement account, the CEC. This important measure is expected to develop in the coming months for all volunteers. We will expand it to include volunteers who supervise non-volunteers and who so far have not benefited from the CEC. The measure will have a particular impact in the field of sport and Scouting: chiefs and chieftains cannot benefit from it today, even though they supervise young people on a voluntary basis very regularly. Finally, work will be carried out on the voluntary leave of employment which employees can take: they are today not easily readable and little known. However, it is necessary to allow employees who wish to do so to avail themselves of it. We will start a work with the community movement in the coming year to simplify and make this leave of employment more readable. The third axis of this roadmap aims to create real trust between associations, the state and businesses, in order to make commitment, not just the business of a few, but the business of all. This axis concerns, on the one hand, the actors in the charter of reciprocal commitments between the State and the associations, and, on the other hand, the financial and competence patronage, in order to promote the development of a "philanthropy with French", as Sarah El Haïry pointed out. An important step will be taken to free the patronage of TPEs and SMEs. Many of them would like to be able to provide financial support to associations in their areas of life or employment, including, vis-à-vis consumers, in a sense of communication and attraction: these companies wish to be able to directly support associations located in their territory. Today, however, this patronage is made very difficult by tax legislation, which limits to 5 per 1000 of turnover the inclusion of donations made under the sponsorship scheme for the granting of a tax reduction. For example, an SME with a turnover of EUR 100 000 can deduct only EUR 500 from its fiscal year, which is little. As from 1 January 2019, the ceiling for eligible payments under the sponsorship scheme will be increased to EUR 10000. Article 5 of the proposed law is intrinsically linked to the latter. It focuses on the assessment of the tax linked to donations and the economic model of organizations of general interest based mainly on generosity. While better knowledge of the impact of taxation on donations is essential to adjust our public policies, I would like us to go beyond the mere fiscal logic: in the coming months I would like to find new, non-tax incentives aimed at developing financial patronage and philanthropy, as well as strengthening the common work between the lucrative and lucrative sectors. This work has already been undertaken by parliamentarians, including Sarah El Haïry and Cathy Racon-Bouzon. We can move forward on this issue collectively. A large number of avenues exist to strengthen this partnership work. The Government therefore very much welcomes this bill, which is fully in line with its strategy towards the voluntary sector. It provides additional concrete responses to the challenges facing it. Our work programme in 2019 will continue and amplify this movement. I had the opportunity this morning to present to the community movement and to all the actors who worked in the framework of the mobilisation launched by the Prime Minister, on the site of the Great Neighbours, a year ago, the concrete method that I wish to use to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u306	Tens of thousands less sports educators! And the commodification of everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u307	I am obviously clear that this bill will not be passed tonight. I regret that because the measures I have mentioned are part of the road map: we therefore wish to see them inscribed in the marble of the law to change the daily lives of the associations as quickly as possible. I am committed to working on the return of this text in a timely manner, with the framework still to be defined. We need to complete its review and adopt it, because the important measures it contains are expected by the associations. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Simplifying the daily lives of associations is the common goal that brings us together beyond the political divides. I thank the Members who have stayed to listen to us, while knowing that the articles of the text could not be examined. We know that the Republic would not have the same face without the associations. This is the face of the Republic that we want to strengthen and support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u308	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u309	[[Laughs]] Mr President, since the Government's communication time, which began this morning, has been exhausted, I would like to ask for a ten-minute suspension of the meeting in order to consult with my group. How, in fact, could we, after the Secretary of State's speech this evening, begin to examine this important text, when the conditions for a calm debate on an important text are not met?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u310	[[Smile]] I think a minute will be enough for you to talk to your band.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u311	Mrs Isabelle Florennes spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u312	Sporting, helping the poorest, accompanying our elders, orienting our children, and sharing on the life of our neighbourhoods: this is a small overview of the role of our country's associations. They accompany us throughout our lives in various fields. Their end mesh of the territory, in favour of social cohesion and solidarity, is called the "associative fabric". With more than 1.3 million associations, an increase of almost 3% a year, and more than 22 million volunteers, plus just under 2 million employees, the world of associations concerns us all. In certain specific areas, such as social assistance, the voluntary sector complements public action, when it does not replace it. Since the beginning of the legislature, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has wished, whenever it has the possibility, to propose adjustments relating to the world of associations, in order to allow associations to adapt to a context and to a society that is constantly changing. I would particularly like to welcome, here, the work of my colleagues Sarah El Haïry, Michel Fanget and Sylvain Wasermann, who are leading our group's work on the subject. On this day of parliamentary initiative reserved for our group, we propose that you continue this extensive work, from the point of view of the funding of associations and, in particular, of their cash flow. As Sarah El Haïry, rapporteur of the text, pointed out, it is a matter of laying the foundations for a genuine French philanthropy. In the face of a decline in the share of public aid, such as grants or grant support, the funding model of our associations is increasingly shifting to the private sector. These developments must be accompanied: this is the subject of the six articles of the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] I had planned a longer statement, which would have allowed me to detail our priorities and our wishes for action. As it is getting late, I do not want to talk about a debate that will not take place this evening, we have understood it well, but which will, I hope, resume in the context of our next parliamentary niche. However, I can announce this evening that the MODEM and related group will fully support this text, which will improve the cash flow of our associations and develop French philanthropy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u313	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u314	A text in favour of the association movement is always a good thing, especially at a time when it is facing serious difficulties. The bill before us includes four recommendations made by the community movement last June, in the report submitted to the Prime Minister. We will vote on it – or we would have voted on it if the examination had been completed this evening. We are well aware that this text tabled in the framework of a parliamentary niche is not intended to meet all the legitimate expectations of the voluntary movement, namely the acceleration of the process of valuing the achievements of volunteers, the establishment of a genuine communication system in order to make better known the voluntary leave of appointment, the support for the employment of associatives or the strengthening of the training of volunteers. The rapid and indispensable progress on these issues is also, and above all, the responsibility of the Government. Unfortunately, as Régis Juanico pointed out here last April, "the construction of support for associative life is a little bit the dead end of government policy", a dead end that is coupled with an assumed desire to reduce both the financial resources of the community world and those that enable it to create jobs. However, it is increasingly difficult for associations to renew their managers and managers and to access public aid, as a result of the decline in state aid to communities. However, there is no shortage of statements in favour of the voluntary sector. I will mention only one of them, made recently here: "Associations are our national treasure. They make the economy more humane and society more supportive, since everyone takes care of others. This is an inflamed statement, to which we could, of course, all adhere, if it did not come from a member of this government that is doing everything to weaken the community movement. These words are intended only to mask the reality of a policy that mistreats associations. Worse, they conceal the reality of an ultraliberal thought, which advocates a totally market-oriented society, of an ultraliberal logic, in which only profitability counts. Censoring the work of associations, as the Government does, does not cost anything. It is the politics of speech without action. The association movement is waiting for real arrangements, so that it can continue to play its full role in maintaining the cohesion of the social fabric. Instead, the Government, by ideology, carries out harmful work against it, which has been reflected in practice, for the past 18 months, in the two finance bills passed by the majority. Indeed, how can it be said that "associations make the economy more humane and society more supportive" and, at the same time, deprive them of new financial resources, even though it had been promised to strengthen the FDVA? How dare you say that they are "a national treasure" and, at the same time, prevent them from renewing aided contracts that expire at the end of 2018? These two measures are the sole and same will of the Government to achieve budgetary savings, while, at the same time, it is pursuing its fiscal policy in favour of the very rich. It's not up to the associations to pay the bill. They do not have to compensate, like the majority of the French, for the abolition of the property tax. For the Government, not content to make the pockets of our compatriots, also orchestrates the decline of the means of the community movement. It is inconceivable that the fund for the development of associative life, which was to be abounded to the sums granted to associations under the former parliamentary reserve, should be only 50 per cent. The account isn't there, Secretary of State! Instead of the €52 million allocated by parliamentarians to associations in 2017, only €25 million was directed towards programme 163. So there are 27 million missing. You save money on associations while their needs are immense. This is proof of the situation of the fund for the development of associative life in my region, Normandy. The Regional Commission for Association Life, which met on 23 October, identified 1277 cases for a consolidated budget of almost 9 million euros. As a result, only 395 positive responses were received for EUR 1.1 million mobilised. Of course, not all cases can be admitted, but the delta between the amounts requested and the amounts granted is abyssal. The Government and the majority have no idea of the resonance on the ground of such choices, the repercussions of which will be significant and disastrous. The list of their concrete consequences would be too long, but I want to mention, for example, the cancellation of the purchase of jerseys and balloons, or the even greater solicitation of volunteers to transport children free of charge on weekends. The members of the majority know that. They measure it like we do when they're in their ridings. They also measure the growing disarray of volunteers after the massive abolition of aided contracts. Indeed, grants to aided contracts rose from €4.2 billion in 2016 to €1.4 billion in 2018. The associative world has lost 1.3 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u315	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u316	At the same time, volunteers are asked to sometimes do without the only employee hired, while continuing to play a pivotal role in neighbourhoods, to be in contact with young people, especially the most in difficulty, to be carriers of innovative devices in the context of increasingly complex calls for projects – in short, to be an essential part of society. The speech "Continue to do the same, and even better, but with less" is not acceptable. We're at the bone! And it is not the skills employment routes, which replace the aided contracts, that will bring a balloon of oxygen to the associations because they do not work. Secretary of State, the 1901 law was designed to allow the association of people for a non-profit purpose. In 2018, 16 million volunteers, assisted by 1.8 million employees, support this idea. These citizens are committed by passion and conviction; No one can substitute for the remarkable work they do on a daily basis. Reducing their financial resources and reducing their capacity to create jobs is a nonsense and even a political mistake. The text we were proposed to vote on today could have been an opportunity to ask us one question: can our society afford to see the fabric of society still weakened? The answer is in the question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 50(4) of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the last sitting of the day must be adjourned at one o'clock in the morning, I shall adjourn the sitting. It will therefore be for the Conference of Presidents to lay down the conditions for further discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1089.u318	Next sitting, Monday, 3 December, at 4 p.m.: Discussion, for final reading, of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2019; Further to the discussion of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill, and the organic bill on strengthening the organization of courts. The meeting is adjourned.
