ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the bill, adopted by the Senate, containing various provisions for adapting to European Union law in the field of security (No. 530, 554).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. We are continuing with Mr. Philippe Latomb.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, the Chairperson of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, the Rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen, the text on which we are going to vote today concerns the transposition of two European directives and draws the consequences of a decision by the European Parliament and the Council. This bill brings together subjects as diverse as the possession of civilian firearms, the Galileo regulated public service, but also and above all a crucial area for our future, that of cybersecurity. The challenge of cybersecurity allows us to discuss more broadly digital issues, a central topic of this year 2018, because in addition to the transposition of Directive 2016/1148, commonly referred to as the "NIS Directive" – Network and Information Security – and which we are dealing with here, other important events should punctuate the year so that projects that are essential to the emergence of strong and ambitious cybersecurity and cyberdefense at European level are born and implemented. As I pointed out during the debate in committee, the main interest of this part of the bill lies in its European dimension: indeed, it will only be possible to respond to computer attacks, such as those we experienced in the spring of 2017, provided that all European states have adequate instruments and weapons. The "common strategic culture", mentioned by the President of the Republic in his speech to the Sorbonne, lays down the principle that must guide us because different regulations from one State to another would inevitably lead to loopholes that only common legislation will prevent. Whether we want it or not, we are today, in our European area, interdependent and therefore vulnerable if we do not find the means to achieve a common front. The NIS Directive is also a necessary step in building common security. It thus pursues a twofold objective: to strengthen the level of cybersecurity applicable to strategic economic activities and to increase coordination between Member States in the event of transnational incidents. The text affirms the need to define and identify the operators of essential services, known as "OSE": actors who are part of the daily life of the French and who, as such, will have to comply with the new rules on computer security. The Directive sets out a minimum list of sectors concerned: energy, transport, banks, financial market infrastructure, health, supply and distribution of drinking water, digital infrastructure. The Government has chosen not to include this list in this text in order to extend the qualification of operators of essential services to new areas depending on the context and emerging threats that may arise. This flexibility also responds to a request from ANSSI – the National Information Systems Security Agency. Similarly, the increased requirement for computer security will now be imposed on some digital service providers, including online marketplaces, online search engines and cloud computing services. With regard to the regulations that will apply to them, I would like to welcome the contribution of our colleagues in the Senate: a foreign supplier offering its services on French territory will have to appoint a representative in France to the ANSSI if he has not already done so in another Member State. The transposition of this European Directive will thus contribute to strengthening the national capacities of the Member States through all the measures envisaged: a national authority; a national strategy coupled with collaboration with other States; an incident response centre. The requirement for SSOs and digital service providers to report incidents, "without delay after becoming aware of them" for the former, "when the information available to them indicates that these incidents have a significant impact on the provision of these services" for the latter, is a guarantee that will allow our defence systems to be updated on a regular basis. In addition, there is a provision for making these incidents public, creating a "reputational" issue for businesses that should encourage them to secure their network and information system, in accordance with this bill. Cyber defence and cyber security are two areas in which European cooperation and mutual assistance are imperative for our economic, industrial and social development. It is also a sovereignty issue for Europe, before which we should all find ourselves. The other directive that we are implementing is related to the acquisition and possession of civilian firearms, and is the subject of Division II of the bill. Of course, we all understand the need to better control the flow of weapons, and hence their sale, in the context we know. Articles 16 and 17 acknowledge the deletion of the category of firearms subject to registration, i.e. subcategory Dl. These weapons will now be upgraded to category C and therefore subject to declaration for acquisition and possession. Concern had been expressed by holders of firearms of historical or collectible interest. My colleagues in the MODEM Group and I are pleased with the rapporteur's explanations on this point. I would also like to point out that the amendment I tabled on Article 17, co-signed by several of them, is a simple coordination amendment which does not provide for the extension of the current regime applicable to the acquisition and possession of collecting weapons. The tightening of the regime for the acquisition and possession of semi-automatic weapons, such as the introduction of administrative controls for Class C arms brokers, are measures that enhance the overall security of firearms. Therefore, we see no objection to the proposals put forward in this text, despite an overtransposition to Article 18 since direct sales can only be made from the actual delivery to the purchaser, whereas the Directive only provides for this framework for distance or mail-order sales. This overtransposition, however, seems to us justified in order to better verify the identity of the arms holders of these categories. Finally, of course, the last provision of this directive seems to us to be a matter of common sense, since it calls for the vigilance of citizens, in particular armors and brokers, who may refuse to conclude a transaction if it appears to them to be suspicious of its nature or scale. The last subject, of great importance too: the regulated public service – SPR – Galileo, which is enshrined in Title III of this bill. This is a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council with which France must comply in order to allow access to certain Galileo services for the development of sensitive geolocation applications and devices. To this end, the draft law provides for a system of administrative authorisation for the conduct of manufacturing, development and export activities of SPR security modules, as well as a system of criminal penalties, with fines of €50000 to €20000 and additional penalties. We all know that the Galileo system is vital for Europe, and therefore for France, as its strategic interest derives from the question of the sovereignty of our common area. Between the United States and Russia, between China and India, Europe needed a satellite radionavigation tool, which is done with Galileo, which has been in operation since the end of 2016. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on many benches of the REM group]] The two directives and the decision of the European Council and Parliament seem to us to be very much in the interests of the general interest and of greater cooperation between the Member States, which, in our view, is particularly commendable. They respond to an immediate need and critical issues for our shared space. It is therefore of course with conviction that the MODEM Group will support this text and vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u4	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is to transpose into national law two European directives in the field of cybersecurity and arms control; It also draws the consequences of a 2011 decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the global satellite radionavigation system from the Galileo programme. The aim is to strengthen the common level of security of our citizens and strategic enterprises. And we will all agree, given the increasing and complex threats facing our continent, it is not only necessary, but above all urgent. Before I turn to the content of the bill, let me note, and it is rare enough to stress this, that France should thus comply with the deadline for transposition of the two directives. We can therefore welcome the work of the executive and the two chambers, especially since the transposition work is never an easy exercise: the provisions are often numerous and heterogeneous, and the risk of being exposed to financial sanctions always hovers on the Member States – not to mention the double pitfall of overtransposition and sub-transposition that we must avoid. Our colleagues Alice Thourot and Jean-Luc Warsmann, authors of an information report submitted last December, rightly pointed out: in France, unnecessary overtranspositions are still too frequent. This fact calls for special vigilance in the face of a risk or temptation whose present text is not completely exempt. I would add that although the accelerated procedure has been initiated, we have sufficient time to examine it calmly. I come to the substance of the bill. Title I transposes a 2016 Directive commonly known as the NIS, with the aim of enhancing the security of networks and information systems in the Union. The aim is to ensure the continuity of the nation's strategic economic activities, including those of the operators of essential services, in the event of cyber attacks by imposing basic rules on certain bodies and by increasing coordination with the public authorities in the event of security incidents on their network and information systems. And that is, alas, we can no longer need it. It is enough to look at recent developments to be convinced of the usefulness of such a measure. In 2017, two large-scale cyberattacks affected hundreds of thousands of computers and compromised the security of corporate networks such as Renault, Saint-Gobain and Fedex. The damage has been multiple in nature, ranging from the destruction of information systems to the damage to the image of the company, the loss of markets or the theft of sensitive information. As for the costs of these attacks, they give rise to vertigo: according to an estimate by the European Network Security Agency, the overall cost of cyber incidents worldwide is between 330 billion and 500 billion euros per year; for a single French company, it is understood, on average, between a few hundred thousand and twenty million euros, but it is often more – for example, during last year's cyber attack NotPetya, Saint-Gobain estimated its financial losses at 250 million euros. Undeniably, attacks on information systems are one of the main threats to European and national security. The NIS Directive and its transposition into national law are therefore more necessary than ever. However, although the provisions of the bill relating to the security of information systems, essential service operators or digital service providers do not pose any difficulties, I remain sceptical as to the real binding scope of the provisions relating to the recommendations, obligations and penalties that will be imposed on them. For example, digital service providers are required to ensure a level of security appropriate to existing risks, with little precision. Without falling into overtransposition, I believe that it would be appropriate to provide that the organisations concerned can benefit from the experience of the operators and the agencies experienced and who have demonstrated their good practices. I have no doubt that the National Information Systems Security Agency regularly advises French strategic companies, but it would probably not be pointless to institutionalise genuine cooperation, on a day-to-day basis, at national and European level, for the benefit of essential service operators and digital service providers. I come to Title II, which aims to transpose a 2017 directive on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons. The objective here is to tighten the conditions for the acquisition and possession of so-called civilian firearms: in particular, to upgrade the A category of semi-automatic weapons, to remove sub-category Dl and to strengthen overall the conditions for the sale of weapons and ammunition. This text is part of the continuation of the Paris Declaration of 11 January 2015, taken in the aftermath of the attacks on our country. In the context of a growing terrorist threat, it was essential to continue to harmonize and strengthen the rules applicable to the most dangerous weapons, as well as to secure the conditions for the sale of firearms as a whole. Individuals who are likely to threaten the safety of our fellow citizens who rely primarily on networks and procedures outside the legal channels, the legislation and regulations in force, however harsh they may be, should not fundamentally change the situation. Of course, the provisions of this bill will improve the traceability and marking of weapons, or even prevent the reactivation of those that have been neutralized, some of which feed illegal markets – for example, the two assault rifles used by one of the terrorists during the attacks of January 2015. However, we may be concerned that overly restrictive provisions in this area do not sufficiently distinguish risky and criminal behaviour from the practices of our honest fellow citizens such as hunting, sport and collecting activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u7	This is probably the topic that will be most widely debated during the consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u8	I think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u9	I will not dwell on this point, which will be the subject of several amendments tabled by various groups, including the IUD Group, Action and Independents. But I think it is already important to point out that the acquisition and possession of, or reproduction of, historic or collectible weapons and materials may be particularly vulnerable by the way chosen to transpose this directive, on which the risk of overtransposition lies. Indeed, in its recitals, the Directive of 17 May 2017 provides that Member States may regulate, with the necessary flexibility, the acquisition and possession by recognised collectors of weapons, including category A, "for historical, cultural, scientific, technical, educational or heritage preservation purposes". The Council of State has also provided for such authorization. Despite these recommendations, the bill has made the choice to exclude this possibility of derogation from the benefit of collectors. In addition, collectors designated by the Directive as "recognized" still do not currently have a collector's card because of the lack of publication of the implementing decree of the Act of 6 March 2012 on the establishment of a modern, simplified and preventive arms control, which is intended to specify the conditions for its establishment and validity. I can only encourage the Government to fill this void as quickly as possible. For collectors who have been waiting for this decree for six years, the damage is considerable. In the absence of recognition and supervision of their activities, many fear to participate in events such as the commemorations of the centenary of the First World War or demonstrations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u10	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u11	... although I have heard the clarifications given earlier on by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u12	Not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u13	However, I am not sure that the subtle distinction between regulations and legislation that apply to commemorations and events is known to collectors. Beyond the transposition of directives, an exercise that is forced, imposed but necessary, the urgency also requires us to look into the question of strengthening the fight against arms trafficking in the near future. Title III concerns the arrangements for access to the regulated public service offered by the Galileo global satellite radionavigation system. Article 22 governs the use of this service by the institutions of the European Union and the Member States for purposes of public safety and general interest. I therefore have no particular comment to make on these provisions, except that we should welcome the technological success of this European GPS. Finally, Title IV provides for the transitional measures necessary for the entry into force of the provisions of the draft law and allows its application overseas in the territories for which an express mention of application is necessary, a manifestation of the ultramarine reflex, which, as a Member of Parliament for New Caledonia, I can only rejoice. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood that, although we regret the damage that certain provisions could cause to our honest fellow citizens who are engaged in a poorly regulated passion, the IDU, Action and Independent Group will vote for a bill that will help to strengthen the level of security on our continent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u14	Wait until the amendments are discussed before taking a decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u15	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs President, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the last election campaigns in the United States and also in France have highlighted the risks associated with cybercrime. And there are so many other examples! Today we live with a threat that is not palpable and yet ubiquitous. There is therefore a need for a coordinated response and mobilization of all international actors on this issue. The European Union, in particular, has the capacity to organise the defence of our computer systems. Attacks come from all over the world and indiscriminately target individuals and states. Among the measures we are voting on today, the transposition of the cybersecurity directive is therefore a major step forward. The adaptation to French law proposed to us is faithful to what has been voted on by the European Parliament. We have not sought to overtranspose or sub-transpose provisions that propose uniform and legible rules in all the Member States of the Union and are a guarantee of confidence in European bodies. We are pleased to see that work continues in Brussels and Strasbourg to provide the best security for European Union citizens. This is an exemplary approach that France, together with the Member States, wishes to support. We are proving this today by supporting the adaptation of this directive. On the legal front, the European Union is filling a real void here. As cyberattacks become more and more numerous and powerful, the law must provide an appropriate response. France already has a competent national authority, the Agence nationale de la sécurité des systèmes d'information. However, there is also a need for an effective regulatory framework for the information systems of operators and digital service providers. Strengthening security systems is crucial, with vital operators particularly concerned. In the absence of provisions applicable in national law, it is a matter of introducing new legislation, which focuses on one aspect on operators and another on suppliers. This law will enable France, which is an active participant in the cooperation group, to intensify its relations at European level. It will also have an economic and societal impact, by fostering the momentum of the cybersecurity industry, increasing the need for skilled labour and developing services in the areas of counselling, audit, detection and treatment of risks and incidents. We can already anticipate an increase in employment in this sector. This project formulates a true national strategy in which the appropriate tactical objectives and policy and regulatory measures are clearly laid down. It will enable us to achieve the highest possible level of network and information system security. I will not go back in detail to Titles II and III of the text we are voting today, as my colleagues have already expressed points of view which I agree with. But whether it is cybersecurity, weapons possession or Galileo, these European measures are in the right direction. The European Parliament demonstrates that its texts are fully adaptable in French law, and no legal contortion is necessary here. All in all, these guidelines offer immediate solutions to significant gaps in our law. European policy is taking full account of the security challenges ahead. It enshrines an urgent need for union in the face of the proliferation of physical or digital attacks; It is able to respond quickly and effectively to the necessary needs faced by the Member States, first and foremost France. The work of our colleagues in Strasbourg is an excellent source of law for our nation, and it seems to me important to address it within a reasonable time, especially when matters affect the safety of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of this text without any restraint. In the future, we will continue to encourage Europe to answer security questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u17	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a subject which is of particular interest to me, namely the acquisition and possession of historical and collection materials and weapons. There seems to be growing suspicion about the transport of such materials as well as about the movement of collectible vehicles, particularly in the context of commemorations. This seems to be confirmed by one of the two directives that the bill tends to transpose into our law, which aims to better regulate the legal regimes for the acquisition and possession of firearms. The law of 6 March 2012 created the collector's card and gave collectors the opportunity to possess materials and weapons of different categories, ranging from category A, for the most dangerous, to category D, for weapons in free custody, as well as their reproductions. Breaking with the law of 2012, in the name of the potential danger of collecting weapons, the bill before this assembly does not mention the free possession of historical materials and weapons and refers to a future decree on the conditions for the application of the law. The Senate Law Commission had amended section 16 of the bill to provide that historic weapons and their reproductions would, by default, fall under category D, and as such would be free of acquisition and possession, with the exception of weapons of proven danger whose list would be established by a decree in the Council of State: this measured and wise position must be endorsed. While the Law Committee of our House has removed these amendments, I would like us to take full advantage of the principle of parliamentary co-construction by returning to the Senate version. Because the bill, in its current version, risks having a negative impact: by introducing a real blur around the classification of different weapons, which it leaves to the free choice of the executive, it tends to put collectors into uncertainty about their future. In addition, attempts to acquire, transfer and detain categories A, B and C would be subject to very heavy penalties, with the State even being able to order seizure and destruction without compensation for the collected materials. The purpose of the bill is to bring back into category C the neutralized weapons and the reproductions of old weapons, which, however, are not dangerous. It removes the possibility of neutralizing old weapons that would not have been previously. All these provisions tend to build a regime for the holding of confiscated collection pieces. Whereas recital 17 of the Directive states that "Member States should be able to decide to grant approved museums and collectors the authorisation to acquire and hold firearms, essential parts and ammunition of category A, if necessary, for historical, cultural, scientific, technical, educational or heritage purposes", there is once again a genuine overtransposition of a European standard. However, the Government and the parliamentary majority had solemnly pledged not to do so. You have to keep your commitment! This is all the more necessary in view of the fact that this text would further increase the suspicion already placed on the transport and movement of weapons and collectible vehicles, particularly for commemorations. This is not acceptable to collectors, professionals and memory associations, who give life to the vibrant testimony of the founding events of our history – this living history that contributes to the duty of memory, but also to the transmission of knowledge and knowledge of our past. All film professionals would also be affected by this measure, which, for the production of historical films, would add complexity to complexity. Only the creation of the collector's card, in partnership with the federations and associations of enthusiasts, like what exists for sports hunters and shooters, is likely to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u20	Moreover, if the draft text were adopted as it stood, it would result in the planned death of the collection of military equipment and historical reconstructions in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u21	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u22	Several collector movements are also planning to suspend their participation in the commemorations of the centenary of the 1918 victory and the Normandy landing in June this year; This would be unacceptable, since these major events, and the priorities of the President of the Republic, must show France's attachment and recognition to those thanks to whom we are free. These materials are the best way to inspire popular enthusiasm, while giving such celebrations a more authentic and moving reach. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr.Rapporteur, I ask you to agree to amend this bill in order to preserve the current rights of collectors and to secure the possession and transportation of weapons and collectibles, and I call for the implementation of the collector's card.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u23	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, Mr rapporteur, it is quite obvious that there is a problem of method. The simple title of the bill bothers us, as it bothers the French, to the point that the law commission has seized the subject to reflect on overtransposition. There is no need to debate this now, but you will understand our unease. In the area of security, the European Union's record is most questionable: lame diplomatic agreements with Turkey, abandoning borders to agencies without strategy or means, land dissymmetry regarding the Member States' willingness to protect, and moralizing lead on protection speeches. But let us not stop there: the noria of interest groups, legally registered in Brussels, shows that the conception of shared responsibilities between the actors in data processing and management is everything, unless balanced. In a word, between the will of the "GAFAs" – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – and a European directive, there is a power-constituent inequality that is at least not to our advantage. We must make detours through the general environment to understand the issue of the text, an issue that far exceeds us. The latest Davos meeting is proof of this: in a world where the United States and China are waging a digital and economic battle under the eyes of the whole world, European civilization is now out of the game. Angela Merkel did not even know how to react when she learned that the NSA was spying on the German official meetings. Similarly, I find it difficult to hear international reactions to China's espionage of the African Union. It should also be noted that the first decision of the international coalitions to grant friendship to the leaders of certain regions consists in the granting of shares in telecommunications companies and Internet supplies. A consultation at European level alone would present two major dangers for our country: it is not certain that France has the same interest as its neighbours in this matter and it is not certain that France's opponents or competitors do not use member countries to influence international competition. However, it is important to analyse the structure of the text. Surprise is important. If the will were to take strong steps to increase our security, we would have had to present a concise text, consisting of only a few articles, focused on the fundamental issues. To regulate the influence of search engines and databases, we must not turn away from the objective. What do we see instead? An accumulation of parts that bind Galileo, category D weapons and data protection control. The specific framework for the implementation of this law should then be provided. Data protection is costly. It is the subject of a globalized market for talent, software, interests, while French nuggets may need to be protected or large groups alerted. This clarification, these adaptations, the text does not provide for them. In this regard, Article 1: "The security of information networks and systems shall consist of their ability to resist, at a given level of confidence, actions that compromise the availability, authenticity, integrity or confidentiality of stored, transmitted or processed data, and related services that such networks and information systems offer or make accessible. » There are two things: either vague principles are presented to national representation, leaving at the discretion of departments the drafting of decrees giving real force to these subjects, or the precision required for the vast variety of situations and possible answers is not provided, which is a problem. Furthermore, in Article 3, the legislator wishes to regulate the duties of service providers. It would be difficult to blame him, but the lack of precision leads us to the same question, since these providers are also actors in the world of intelligence. How to frame? What would be the consequences for our own services? Are State services really capable of effectively prosecuting those who fail to fulfil their obligations? The war of information and for the mastery of the digital world is a fact of the powers. It results from the accumulation of the forces of a State, both moral, intellectual, economic and institutional. We know the experts in this field: the United States, where the interlocking of the private and the public at the service of the American nation is ancient. Can such an interlocking work in France? Can it also be done in the certainty of interests strictly ordered to the common good? In France, digital service providers have long expanded the circle of their interests. They wrestle in the information, the media, the collection of data about their users. They affected public perception of information and issues. How, therefore, can we ensure that Articles 10 to 15 are actually applied? Moreover, can the fines provided for in Article 15 really impress them? I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u25	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u26	I spare you the reflection on the categories of weapons and their distribution which I have already said have nothing to do with this text, first of all because this transposition does not deal with a problem which we know has more to do with the State's inability to fight against the organizers of trafficking than with collectors or hunters, then because we do not confront cybersecurity with an additional article on hunting rifles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u27	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u28	In a word: we imagine the Barbuzes intervene effectively against hackers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u29	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the transposition into French law of several European directives in the field of security. The transposition of Community directives is an obligation but also a constitutional requirement, the respect of which requires faithful and complete transposition. First of all, let us remember that France's situation with regard to the transposition of directives has improved considerably in recent years. I will focus here on Title III of this bill, whose single article – Article 22 – aims to transpose into national law the obligations laid down by the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the modalities for access to the regulated public service offered by the global satellite radionavigation system from the Galileo programme. As a member of the National Defence and Armed Forces Commission, I am delighted to be able to intervene on this bill in order to recall the scientific, strategic and security issues of the Galileo programme. Galileo is a European technological feat, a pride that we must defend. This satellite positioning system developed by the European Union, including a space segment, has enabled Europe to gain its strategic independence. This is an ambitious European project which was launched 20 years ago. Galileo is a real symbol of European security cooperation, of which we can be proud. Europe's independence from the United States, China and Russia requires that its intelligence system be autonomous and be able to rely on European satellites. Of the 30 satellites planned under the Galileo programme, 18 have already been launched and the constellation of the 30 satellites is expected to be in orbit by 2021. Galileo was designed to meet five types of requirements: an open, free and accessible service, a commercial service to develop applications for professional or commercial purposes, a contribution to the global radio beacon alert and location system, a contribution to integrity control services, and a regulated public service. This regulated public service is reserved only for users authorised by States, for sensitive applications subject to effective access control and ensuring continuity of service in the most serious situations. The decision of 25 October 2011 "on how to access the regulated public service offered by the global satellite radionavigation system from the Galileo programme" specifies the obligations of Member States wishing to use it. It requires that access to the RPD be restricted to certain users under the permanent control of a "regulated public service" authority. It is this provision that section 22 of this bill allows us to introduce into our Defence Code, through a new chapter dedicated to Title II of Book III. A new sanctions regime for non-compliance is also in place. Once our right has been brought into line with this European decision, a check will therefore be carried out by the competent administrative authority – the General Secretariat for Defence and National Security as far as we are concerned – in order to issue or not the authorisations, which may be subject to conditions or restrictions, necessary for access to the regulated public service. Such authorizations are also essential for the development and manufacture of security receivers or modules, for the export of equipment, technology or software designed for that service. According to the Council of State, such a system of prior authorisation and control is indispensable. We can only respect this opinion and therefore adopt Article 22. Finally, it should be noted that France has invested a great deal in the Galileo programme, both financially and scientifically. Today, our country contributes almost 20%. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Yes, we are fortunate to have recognized scientists and leading-edge companies in the aerospace and defence sector. Let us preserve and protect this national and European wealth, which is a real success.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u31	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u32	Without being exhaustive, I would like to reply to a few Members. I have heard a number of regrets, especially on the benches of the New Left. I have noted the point made to me that the Firearms Directive does not deal directly with the fight against arms trafficking, but it is not the purpose of a directive to organise the operational fight against international trafficking. On the other hand, I will repeat what I have already said in the introduction: France's accession to the United Nations protocol on combating trafficking in firearms, which your Committee on Laws makes possible thanks to the amendments it has adopted, will complement the means to combat these traffickings operationally. To remove any ambiguity, I would point out that the bill fully transposes all the provisions of the directive that fall within the legislative level. The other provisions, of a regulatory nature, will be the subject of a decree. The subject of collectors has raised many concerns. They are not well-founded because the bill does not remove any rights from them. Contrary to what I heard, the fact that the Government deliberately chose not to allow collectors to acquire category weapons A is not an overtransposition; This decision is a choice among the options opened by the Directive. The Government has no intention of degrading their situation or opposing their passion. I'll prove it to you later. As for the regrets about the absence of the collector's card, I will give you guarantees during the debate on the defence of the amendments. The subject of war material collections was raised, but the bill does not address it, as it does not fall within the scope of the directive. The collectors of these materials are not concerned, and the situation remains as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u33	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u34	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u35	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u36	I understand that the tabling of a deletion amendment surprises you. However, I have not seen any other solution, given the reflection on the whole text. I would like to have the greatest confidence in self-regulation, but I see it as a dangerous process. First of all, it lays down a principle of identity between State actors and service providers regarding the transposition of a directive which aims to protect us from the major dangers of our time. However, the nationality of the providers, their convictions and their affiliations cannot be subject to the same requirements as those imposed on public service operators. If one adds the reason, understandable in some respects, for economic interests, the legislator is faced with difficult litigation situations. When do we have to alert? When it comes to an essential actor, how do we consider that this alert does not put him in danger himself? While I understand the purpose of the article, I think it should be even more precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u37	Mr Christophe Euzet, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u38	On the form, you propose the deletion of an article which provides that "when informing the public or the Member States of the European Union of incidents under the conditions laid down in Articles 7 and 13, the competent administrative authority shall take account of the economic interests of these digital operators and service providers and shall ensure that no information is disclosed which could affect their security and confidentiality in commercial and industrial matters. » It seems to me very complicated to delete this article, which is a scrupulous transposition of Article 14 of the "NIS" directive. On the merits, it seems normal to take economic interests into account when informing the public; But to inform the public is to take into account the interests of citizens. The committee therefore delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u39	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs had the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u40	It is the same as the rapporteur: unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u41	Mrs Marie-France Lorho, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u42	This article highlights two of the shortcomings of the text: the imprecise definitions and the weak capacity of Parliament to control the executive. We have already dealt with this extensively in the general discussion, but we must return to it. The definition of "essential service operators" is very vague. From the perspective of writing decrees, can you specify it? Why is this definition more vague than that of vital operators in the 2013 military programming law? You may tell me that this notion of essential operators may vary over time; In this case, why legislate in this way? Why establish a list valid for two years, under the sole control of the Prime Minister, and based on the notion of continuity of service? We are talking about both a courier and storage operator, as well as a feed as well as a stock. Is all this, again, not a lack of precision?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u43	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u44	I discover that this evening we are talking about this subject that has been dear to my heart for a long time. When I made my tour of France, I was very surprised to discover the amount of weapons available to the French. Of course, you will tell me, in the suburbs that I traveled overnight, between an hour and five in the morning, that is hardly surprising. A journalist from L'Express who had followed me for four days ended up telling me, on the fifth day, that I was crazy, that he was letting me figure it out... There, I saw there were guns, and heavy ones! But by discussing, in the villages, everywhere, and especially in the most affected areas, I discovered that there were a lot of weapons. I heard there a feeling of fear, of waiting; Everyone had equipped themselves. [[Laughs]] I had not seen anything like this in my youth, nor at the beginning of my adulthood – a rather indefinite moment. [[Exclaims and smiles on the benches of the REM group]] Whether it is through European law or otherwise, it is an important subject. There's a lot of weapons in France. Last year, there was a stock shortage of chevrotines. A friend of mine wanted to buy some, impossible... We live in a very tense environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u45	I have before me two amendments, Nos 58 and 68, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u46	This amendment aims to strengthen the fight against cyber attacks by specifically protecting certain essential services. Imagine that during an open heart operation the computers stop working and cause a malfunction of the device to maintain the heart rate. Imagine a hacked Pôle emploi agency that sees its entire database erased or, more insidiously, partially modified, the data no longer allowing the identification of the rightholders. [[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the REM group]] Imagine – worse still – a hacking of the Eloi software that would pass all the amendments of France unsubstantiated under the signature of MPs On!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u47	Oh, no! Not that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u48	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The Group of the European People's Party considers that legislation must be more protective, particularly with regard to certain basic services, in the social, educational, economic, environmental, health, medico-social and cultural fields. In order to protect collective well-being, we propose that these areas be explicitly included in the bill – with strict respect for the division of powers between the executive and the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u49	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u50	This amendment goes in the same direction. It aims to further clarify in law the nature of the services subject to the security rules necessary for the protection of the networks and information systems to be designated by the Prime Minister. In particular, the amendment proposes to clearly target hospitals or schools, which is not done by the current wording. However, we also do not want too strict a wording of the article. It is the whole purpose of this amendment that uses the adverb "in particular".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u51	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u52	Unfavorable opinion. The hypothesis of the virus affecting the computers of the National Assembly and allowing the automatic adoption of all the amendments of the unsuspecting France is indeed frightening. But you already mentioned it in committee, word for word. I therefore refer you again to Annex II of the "NIS" directive. This Annex provides for all the areas concerned; Hospitals and clinics are included. In the course of our preparatory work, the Government has also undertaken to extend the scope of the Directive, for example to large-scale distribution or tourism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u53	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u54	The sectors in which these provisions will apply will be defined by the Government. Annex II refers in particular to energy, transport, banks, health, water, digital infrastructure... As the rapporteur has said, we have committed ourselves to going beyond that. The risk has never been greater, and we share your concerns. It is a subject that needs to be widely considered. I also reiterate that the Government will regularly inform Parliament during its work on the various decrees. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u55	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u56	How is it possible that security rules intended to protect information networks and systems are dictated by the Prime Minister alone? How, in a democracy, can these rules not be subject to the critical scrutiny of the French and their elected representatives? The security of information networks and systems is absolutely essential; France's entire economic life depends on it, as do our private lives. You are transposing this directive in such a way that everything is in the hands of the Prime Minister. Because we are still living in democracy, I hope that this competence will be shared with a competent and above all independent body. Among those that exist, I have considered ARCEP, the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications and Posts. Maybe others would be more suitable. It is not a question of giving an impression of democracy, but of protecting the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u57	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u58	Unfavorable opinion. Public electronic communications networks and services are expressly excluded from the scope of the Directive. So we're out here. I also have the impression that there is confusion in the amendment between ARCEP and ANSSI.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u59	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u60	Unfavorable opinion. I remind you of the general philosophy of the text: the Prime Minister and his services will draw up these lists; We will also have to find a way of working together with Parliament, which we will keep informed of this work by taking care of the confidentiality of certain information. We also do not understand the role of ARCEP in the same way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u61	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u62	In line with my previous amendments, I believe that the French must be certain that their safety is truly assured, and that the Prime Minister really controls the operators. I therefore request that parliamentarians produce a report on security deficiencies every two years; They would tell the French whether or not they are protected. Security of information networks and systems should not be considered lightly; It would risk the worst disasters. Security must be ensured, and I will be very vigilant on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u63	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u64	Unfavorable opinion. The law sets the framework, but it will be up to the regulatory authority to adopt this list of operators.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u65	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u66	The designation of operators is an administrative decision taken pursuant to the law. The Government will play its full role. I repeat, however, that we will be, that I will always be very available to answer questions from parliamentarians, as we have already done on many issues, particularly those related to security and secrecy. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u67	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u68	The bill would require only the Prime Minister "to lay down the security rules necessary for the protection of the networks and information systems referred to in the first paragraph of Article 5". This is in my view contrary to the very balance of powers and the role of Parliament in controlling the Government; It could endanger the security and freedom of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u69	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u70	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons as before. I say again, the law sets a framework but it is up to the regulatory authority to set the rules more precisely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u71	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u72	Unfavorable opinion. The Government will always be available, and Parliament already has all the necessary tools to control the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u73	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u74	We are, I believe, a few who have some discomfort with regard to Parliament's role in this matter; Without the creation of a dedicated committee, or at least without a link to Parliament, we risk giving the impression of simply transcribing the directive without taking it. It almost seems that the exercise of parliamentary control over this issue would not be desirable. I therefore propose to include in the text that the safety of devices and services is certified by an ad hoc committee. It would be an open door to parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u75	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u76	Unfavorable opinion. I understand your concern. But a draft European regulation, which will therefore be directly applicable, is under discussion. Your proposal is premature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u77	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u78	Unfavorable opinion. The issue of certification was fundamental, and that was why it had been the subject of a European negotiation for several months, in which the French Government played a key role. This regulation will create a European standard of certification, thus increasing the overall level of safety, as well as the overall level of confidence in these certifications.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u79	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u80	The impact assessment does not specifically assess the costs incurred by operators appointed by the Prime Minister, regardless of their status. Our concerns focus on investments that would be requested from non-profit organizations, including non-governmental organizations, if they are identified as essential service operators. Could the Restos du coeur, for example, not be considered an operator of essential services? A paralysis of their computer system would have a dramatic impact on their organization and on the provision of meals to many poor people. Similarly, what about the management of the public service for the reception of asylum-seekers and asylum-seekers, which is primarily entrusted to the voluntary sector? The examples are multiple and cover many areas. Is it really for these non-profit organizations to bear such costs, with all the risks that this entails for their business? NGOs cannot necessarily mobilize the same financial resources as companies. Could the State not provide them with financial assistance? The amendment therefore provides for the submission, within four months, of a report assessing precisely the additional costs that should be borne by the private non-profit operators concerned by Article 5 of this bill. The choice of such a short deadline is fully justified, since under Article 5 of the Directive, operators of essential services will have to be identified by 9 November 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u82	The impact assessment indicates that the cost of implementing the safety rules imposed on these operators of essential services "will be specified in the impact statement accompanying the regulatory text setting out these rules". This cost has already been estimated for vital organisations: it ranges from 1 to 2 million euros per operator per year. But it will necessarily be lower for operators of essential services, to whom fewer constraints will be imposed. The committee therefore delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u84	The regulations will set out the obligations that will be imposed on operators. The nature of these costs will be used to assess costs. Therefore, another impact assessment will be prepared on the basis of target audiences and requirements. But be aware that your concern is taken into account. We will do everything in our power to ensure the transparency of our assessments of essential service operators – whether these are some NGOs, whether they should be qualified as ESOs, or SMEs, who have not necessarily anticipated the costs resulting from these new obligations. Like physical security, digital security becomes essential. That is why it is important to enforce certain rules and to measure the consequences for everyone. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u85	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u86	The amendment seeks to strengthen Parliament's powers. You will therefore no doubt be in favour of it. Operators of essential services, both public and private, provide services essential to the functioning of society and the economy. They operate in a variety of sectors involving sovereignty: energy, transport, banks, financial market infrastructure, health, drinking water, etc. The bill provides for an obligation for SSOs to report to ANSSI any incident that could threaten networks and information systems. This is about cybersecurity issues, which require some confidentiality. Admittedly, the independent administrative authority is there to regulate sectors in which the State does not want to intervene in order to maintain its impartiality. But in cybersecurity, national sovereignty is often at stake. That is why we propose that Parliament – through the relevant committees on cybersecurity: the Law Committee or the Defence and Armed Forces Committee – be informed by ANSSI of incidents and threats to network security and information systems. Parliament will lay down the conditions guaranteeing the confidentiality in which it is informed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u87	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u88	I am aware, like you, my colleague, of the need to inform Parliament. However, systematic information seems disproportionate to me, especially as we can audition the ANSSI as necessary. The committee therefore delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u89	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u90	Mr President, you know the respect that this Government has for Parliament, and the respect that I have, in my personal capacity, for this House in which I was elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u91	It doesn't start well!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u92	We want proof!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u93	You know the absolute need to surround the transmission of individual acts with confidentiality. Appropriate channels must therefore be available to preserve this confidentiality. The second argument, which, in my view, is the most important: information on each individual case will deprive Parliament of an overall view of the situation and the risks. Rather, I suggest – I think it's more interesting – that you set up a dialogue and share information and set the pace for it – every six months or every year. On other issues related to security and secrecy, we have been able to find the channels to share information. I am therefore opposed to individual information, but in favour of a more general dialogue. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u94	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u95	This amendment is quite interesting. Today, if we do not practice transparency at our level, it is media or foreign non-governmental agencies that relay the information. We are then faced with the fait accompli and we do not know how to react. You are showing a desire for dialogue with Parliament. But this amendment does not mention any particular cases. He referred to information about incidents, which did not affect confidentiality. This amendment is entirely relevant. You do not offer any guarantees as to Parliament's information. This amendment is serious in the marble and thus ensures that we work with complete confidence. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If one day there was a security problem that you don't want to talk about, how can you make sure that it would not be put under the stack but discussed with us? There's no guarantee. If this amendment is adopted, the refusal to inform Parliament will be treated as a violation of the law. Therefore, everyone will take on their responsibilities. Personally, I support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u96	There are more and more of your points of agreement! The conservative block consolidates!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u97	Mr Jean-Michel Mis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u98	We must not want to make Parliament bear its own turpitudes. Each incident is by definition unique. I do not understand what purpose you are pursuing through this amendment. The REM group is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u99	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u100	I do not go back to the problem of the Prime Minister's exclusive competence on these issues. In addition, I have already expressed my doubts about the definition and guidance of the claimants referred to in the first paragraph of Article 3. I continue to believe that these two issues will pose enormous problems and that Parliament does not facilitate the task of the administrations by not codifying enough, as the Council of State points out in hollow. Can you give me details of the fourth paragraph, the contours of which – as regards both the time limit and the relationship to the operators – seem unclear to me? Will ANSSI have sufficient latitude in its controls? Will its freedom of action have been defined with sufficient precision to deal with operators' plethora of legal services?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u101	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u102	The reasons for this amendment are identical to those for the amendments to Articles 5 and 6. It does not seem to me desirable that the Prime Minister should hold in his own hands the security of the networks and information systems of the operators of essential services. In order to guarantee security and preserve the freedom of communication of the French, responsibility must be exercised to several. I therefore recommend that the Prime Minister share this function.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u103	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u104	My answer is the same as on article 5. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u106	For the same reasons as in article 5, the Government's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u107	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 84, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u108	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u109	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u110	I recall the terms of Article 5: "operators, whether public or private, providing services essential to the functioning of society or the economy and whose continuity could be seriously affected by incidents involving the networks and information systems necessary for the provision of such services shall be subject to the provisions of this Chapter". They are therefore operators who play a crucial role in our economy or in our society. We must therefore make sure that if they fail to comply with their legal obligations, they will find themselves very marrised. I fear that the sanctions will prove too weak in view of the financial strike force of the operators. Given the dangers involved, we should protect ourselves better.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u111	I have before me two amendments, Nos 53 and 55, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u112	The purpose of this amendment is to take into account the reality of the turnover of many operators concerned by this law. "GAFA" and other large companies, as well as their managers, will not be deterred by such low fines. What will the law be without real binding force? We propose to increase the maximum amount of fines and to match it to a percentage of turnover. The threshold of 4% of turnover is the one adopted by the 2016 European Regulation on the protection of personal data – GDPR – to sanction infringement of the rules in this field. In addition, in order to allow modulation according to the types of actors and their responsibilities, we propose to make the fixed amount a base amount and to add to it a maximum amount, based on the European regulation setting the ceiling at EUR 20 million. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, we believe it is important to harmonise the sanctions provided for in Articles 9 and 15. The distinction between essential service operators and suppliers does not seem to justify different amounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u113	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u114	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u116	Unfavorable opinion on both amendments. With regard to Amendment No 53, the amount of fines was set at a lower scale compared to the sanctions regime applied to operators of vital importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u118	The amounts of fines have been set in relation to those laid down for operators of vital importance. You mentioned, Mr Larive, the fines provided for under the General Data Protection Regulation, which will come into force next May. However, the offences defined in the GDPR are much more serious than those covered by Article 9. If an operator has not secured an information system and has allowed personal data to leak, it is not excluded that he should be punished twice, on the one hand for failing to comply with his obligations as an operator of essential services, and on the other hand for failing to be able to secure personal data. In this case, the amounts you mentioned – up to €20 million or up to 4% of the world's turnover – can be applied. For this reason, the Government is against Amendment No. 53. [["Ah! » on the benches of the FI group]] With regard to Amendment No. 55, the Government fully endorses the written statement and the oral statement,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u119	[[Smile]] In the mouth, succinctly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u120	[["Oh! » on the benches of the FI group]] ... but it considers that these concerns are met by existing legislation, in particular article 121-2 of the Criminal Code, which states: "Legal persons, with the exception of the State, are criminally liable... for offences committed on their behalf by their organs or representatives. I therefore invite the authors of the amendment to withdraw it. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u121	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u122	Article 11, paragraph 5, provides that the security provisions of Chapter III shall not apply to small enterprises, those employing fewer than 50 employees and whose turnover does not exceed EUR 10 million. In the advanced sectors, however, small businesses are an essential part of the service chain. A question therefore arises: can the proper functioning of digital services depend on the company that provides them? In my view, the answer is clear: the proper functioning of digital services must in all circumstances be linked to the security of the citizens we represent. If an enterprise is not able to enforce the provisions of Chapter III, it must become so or, at least, make sure that it is approached: free for everyone to find solutions according to their budget and economic model. If paragraph 5 were applied, then citizens using the services provided by the companies concerned would not be as protected as others. Aren't we all equal before the law? That is why we strongly reject this paragraph and propose to delete it altogether.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u124	The Directive to be transposed provides that undertakings employing less than 50 employees and with a turnover of less than EUR 10 million are not covered by its provisions. The amendment therefore falls outside the scope of the Directive. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u126	It was important to retain paragraph 5, which was part of the general balance of the text. Removing it would run counter to the directive. With regard to the objectives you mentioned, Mrs Lorho, the GDPR will protect citizens' personal data throughout Europe, regardless of the size of the company, through proportionate measures. It will respond to the concerns you have just expressed. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u127	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u128	You intend to ask each digital service provider to appoint a representative to ANSSI, but you limit the scope of this provision to companies with fewer than 50 employees and an annual turnover of not more than EUR 10 million. The criteria selected do not seem to us to be adapted to the reality of digital technology or to the challenges of cybersecurity. On the one hand, the figure of 50 employees is emblematic: many companies do not want to exceed this threshold, as this would require them to have representative bodies of staff. On the other hand, today there is a label "France Cybersecurity", which was awarded to seventeen French companies in January 2015, Emmanuel Macron being then Minister of Economy, Industry and Digital Affairs. However, among these labeled companies, there are companies with fewer than fifty employees. Let us be consistent: let us go to the end of the process and allow all companies to benefit from the expertise of ANSSI in a common framework. The amendment is intended to supplement paragraph 5 so that the list of exempt digital service sectors is specified by an inter-ministerial order, following the advice of the expert bodies of ANSSI and ARCEP. This list could be drawn up on the basis of the French activity nomenclature of the Institut national de la statistique et des études économiques.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u129	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u130	On the form, the same argument as for the previous amendment. On the merits, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u131	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u132	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u133	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u134	This is a question of vocabulary. In my view, we need to be attentive to all events involving digital service providers. Any event, however small, that could have an impact on the provision of these services must be monitored at all costs. Let us not take the digital issues lightly: let us sincerely monitor the GAFAs and their drifts, especially since they have made us dependent on their services and because they hold a great deal of important data about our citizens. To avoid any problems, any incident must be reported to ANSSI. If we ask digital service providers to wait for the incidents to have a "significant impact" – an expression that is not clearly defined – to be accountable to that authority, we take the risk of not being able to prevent and being forced to heal at all times. Therefore, we propose to replace the words "significant impact" with "impact". It is, I repeat, crucial: let us not play with digital security.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u135	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u136	This is indeed a semantic debate, with very sensitive nuances. If you had proposed, Ms. Lorho, to replace "a significant impact" with "a significant impact", we could have discussed it. But by proposing to remove the term "significant" you expose us to a risk of sub-transposition. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u137	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u138	Let us not forget that one of the issues at stake is the operational nature of the directive, in particular the ability of the services of the Prime Minister and ANSSI to apply it and carry out all necessary controls. If we remove the "significant" adjective, ANSSI would be overwhelmed by applications and alerts, which would prevent us from achieving our goal of increasing the overall level of digital security. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u139	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u140	If a digital service provider fails to fulfil any of the obligations laid down in Articles 12 or 13, it shall be subject to checks to verify the level of security of its networks and compliance with the obligations. If the Prime Minister is aware of such actions, he has a duty to put these controls in place: this must be not a possibility, but an obligation. This relates to the security of the users and the digital service concerned. Any supplier from a non-European territory must comply with the law of the territory in which it offers its digital services. No one is supposed to ignore the law. What's more, no one should be able to break it. Strict prevention and control are necessary on the part of the competent authorities vis-à-vis those who exceed the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u142	We understand your concern, Ms. Lorho, but it seems more reasonable to leave a margin of appreciation to the supervisory authority. That is why the committee is giving an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u143	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u144	It is essential that the Prime Minister retain his ability to decide on the basis of the information available to him. Again, the issue is the operational nature: we must be able to carry out these checks with all the necessary means whenever conditions so require.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u145	I have before me two amendments, Nos 51 and 54, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u146	Digital service providers, including GAFAs, have assumed a leading role in managing financial flows and information flows. If security breaches exist in their networks and information systems, they have an impact on the nation as a whole. However, it is noted that the fines provided for in this bill are absolutely not a deterrent to the billions of capitalization and profits generated by these operators – these giants are generally American, US to be more precise – and by some digital service companies. Totalling $850 billion, Apple's market capitalization is, you know, the biggest in history. I could give other examples. We propose to establish a flexible scale of truly dissuasive monetary penalties for these groups. The aim is to adapt the amount of fines to the different types of actors and their means: it could range from 500,000 to 20 million euros or, in the case of a company, up to 4% of the world's turnover, which is the amount used to sanction a violation of the protection of personal data under the general data protection regulation. We also suggest harmonising the penalties provided for in Articles 9 and 15, since the distinction between operators of essential services and providers of digital services does not seem to us to be relevant to justifying the differences in the amounts envisaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u147	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u148	First of all, it seems to us essential that the fines provided for in the event of a lack of awareness of cybersecurity obligations are not only paid by the managers of the operators concerned, but also by the operators themselves. Indeed, as well as "leaders", "suppliers" must be held accountable, as a collective entity. As a reminder, what about the illegality of the French leaders of Uber, who were covered by their parent company? In addition, this amendment is supplemented by other amendments, which aim to standardise the penalties provided for in Articles 9 and 15 and to increase their amounts in order to make them genuinely dissuasive, bearing in mind the reality of the turnover of the undertakings concerned, in particular the famous GAFAs, for whom the fact of being illegal is, moreover, only an economic risk, quantified in their accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u150	What is the Committee's opinion on each of Amendments Nos 51 and 54?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u151	Similar amendments have already been discussed when it comes to operators of essential services. The argument remains the same. Unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u152	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u153	I recall the arguments we have put forward earlier: the GDPR will introduce a real revolution with regard to how to envisage the responsibility of large data operators across the territory. The scale of sanctions that you want to establish is provided for in this regulation when the personal data of citizens will be at stake – I know that this subject is very important to you. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable on Amendment No. 51. With regard to Amendment No 54, I also refer to the reasoning that the Committee and the Government have already developed. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u154	We come to amendments with additional articles after Article 15. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u155	With this amendment, we wish to support efforts to strengthen cybersecurity in France. Even as information technology has become structural in and for the operation of many public services, administrations, businesses and associations, the number of computer security vulnerabilities has increased. This has led to the development of an activity that can be both lucrative and non-profit-making, such as the discovery of faults or the search for security vulnerabilities. A bounty bug or malfunction bonus is a reward that a company can offer to anyone who finds security flaws in a given perimeter. We are aware of the importance of these bug bounty and of the background work of the fault discoverers, since, unlike the ad hoc interventions of companies in external IT consulting, bug bounty allows a continuous improvement against attacks or attempts of attacks that are renewed almost daily, in their methods as well as in their scale. We therefore propose, by this appeal amendment, to envisage the creation of a legal status of fault hunters, which can legally allow the organisation of bug bounty, for the time being within the restricted perimeter of operators considered essential by the defence code, which we would like to see in the long term extended to the economy in general. We propose that the first legal status as a fault hunter be registered and authorized by the National Information Systems Security Agency, ANSSI. If the rapporteur refuses to take a decision on the substance of this amendment during the Committee on Laws or at a public meeting, arguing that the amendment, which is not intended to transpose a European directive, would be unconstitutional, it is that, consciously or not – I think for the second hypothesis – it is dishonest or misguided. We would therefore be grateful if you were not hypocritical and not to twist the right for political purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u156	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u157	We have already had this debate in committee, where we have evacuated the question by raising a problem of form. The amendment does indeed fall outside the scope of the directive to be transposed. Nevertheless, you are opening a debate of obvious interest. I reported it. If we want to develop this topic, we can mention two types of considerations. Companies retain the possibility of hiring white hats, i.e. white hackers, by contract, to ask them to test the vulnerability of their system without being subject to criminal sanctions. To reassure you even more about the substance, I would add that the French legislative framework evolved with the adoption in October 2016 of the law for a digital Republic. It states that if one detects one's own fault in a system – even when one remains there for a while – and reports it in good faith to the authority, there is no criminal sanction. In short, regardless of any formal considerations, the amendment is satisfied in substance. The committee therefore gives an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u158	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u159	After the rapporteur's brilliant demonstration, I have little to add, if not that the Government is particularly interested in these bug bounty that favours the hunting of the safety flaw, whether they intervene in a contractual way in the relationship with the companies – we need more pedagogy about the companies or associations that provide these services – or by direct reporting to the authorities. This report, formalized by Article 47 of the Law for a Digital Republic, has since been transposed, enables the existence of faults to be regularly traced, which has improved the protection of our systems. Again, our only goal is to increase the overall level of digital security. That is why the Government, which, for reasons of form, gives an unfavorable opinion on the amendment, will be your interlocutor if you wish to continue this discussion in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u160	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, in support of Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u161	Mr Secretary of State, since you are inviting us to continue the discussion on bug bounty, I am returning to the charge. Like the rapporteur, you replied to my colleague on white hats, employees of companies or voluntary citizens, which would find loopholes. But this is not a question: we want a premium to be paid to those who detect malfunctions in all the information systems of the State, and not only to those of certain operators designated in a way limited by the defence code. As you have recognized, it would be an innovative way to encourage and engage the many volunteers who, every day, could contribute to strengthening our system by rewarding them for their work. In addition, unlike white hats that can be employed in companies, some of these people have different, sometimes less academic and more creative training than those found among employees in the sector, which can make them more responsive. It seems useful to us to have a statute, the one that exists today being halfway between legality and illegality. If we create this status, we will finally be able to use these formidable skills not to deconstruct, but to consolidate the current arrangements. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, the rapporteur acknowledged that, in principle, he had shown agreement in committee. In terms of law and the Constitution, the amendment is related to the directive to be transposed. Constitutionally, therefore, it cannot be challenged for non-compliance with the purpose of the directive. Moreover, Parliament does not have to grant itself the powers of the Constitutional Council, which, if necessary, could censor the provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u163	Same unfavorable opinion as on the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u165	The same opinion as on the previous amendment, but again, I invite you to go back to Article 47 of the Law for a Digital Republic, which allowed this debate to be opened for several hours in the House: this was the first time that the word bug bounty was spoken in the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u166	Pronouncing isn't enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u167	Today, this status exists. If you feel that it does not adequately protect whistleblowers, it will have to be evaluated. I am prepared to discuss this, but I repeat that the issue goes beyond the scope of the text under discussion. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u168	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u169	He's forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u170	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the REM group]] He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u172	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u174	The amendment, brilliantly defended, is largely outside the scope of transposition. On the other hand, in July 2017, the Prime Minister commissioned a strategic cyber defence review. In this regard, information will be made public in the coming months. I'm sure you'll be interested in these conclusions. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u175	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u176	The current international governance of the Internet does not appear satisfactory to guarantee digital rights and freedoms. We therefore propose that a report examine serious avenues for remedying this. A global public good such as the Internet cannot be controlled by one or more states alone. By its very nature, it involves joint global management. This requires, for example, a profound rethink of the role of ICANN – the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers – in assigning Internet protocol addresses, assigning protocol identifiers – IP – and managing domain names. It is a company governed by Californian law, therefore subject to the rules of American law, rather than an international body. Only since 2014 has the US government ended its unilateral supervision of the management of the Internet root and transferred it to ICANN. At the 2012 World Conference on International Telecommunications, the possibility of linking ICANN's powers to the International Telecommunication Union – ITU was mentioned. We are part of an anti-hegemonic internet reading, to prevent a state from controlling the root of the Internet, its infrastructure, and from engaging in mass espionage. It is in the spirit of the Brazilian initiative of 2014, the International NetMundial Initiative Conference on Internet Governance, that we plan to rethink global cooperation and the management of the common good of the Internet. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Moreover, because France must also be ambitious and launch international negotiations to strengthen internet neutrality and global democratic governance, we call for consideration of the possibility of negotiating a new treaty on the subject. It will not only institutionalize international cooperation, but also provide for management by a body not dependent on private interests and the domination of certain States, to ensure that the network's most sensitive physical infrastructure is not appropriated. Such physical infrastructures managed by a common international structure should also enjoy the immunities and privileges of the specialized agencies provided for in the 1947 Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u178	You know the position of the Law Committee on reports in general. I have the feeling that, through the amendment, you are questioning the Government on how it views the global governance of the Internet. Perhaps the Secretary of State will answer you on this point by referring to a symposium held at UNESCO on the construction of peace in cyberspace. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u180	The amendment does not fall within the scope of the text we are considering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u181	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u182	On the other hand, it does not fall outside the framework of the Government's activities or the global discussion that we have with our European partners or not. The Government is working to advance a peaceful and regulated approach to cyberspace. On 6 and 7 April 2017, in France, organized by the General Secretariat for Defence and National Security – SGDSN – and ANSSI held for the first time an international conference entitled "Building international peace and security in the digital society". It has deepened both academic and diplomatic aspects on the preservation of peace in cyberspace. To go further, last September, I accompanied the President of the Republic and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the General Assembly of the United Nations, at which France organized a conference on these subjects. In December, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I presented France's international strategy, which I invite you to discover or rediscover. We are dealing with each of the subjects you mention in the amendment, which will allow us to return to you regularly, as you ask. I am prepared, as a leader, to deal with all international digital issues with you. You talked about a new multilateralism, common management, peace in cyberspace. All of this is part of our daily work. I will be very happy to share it with you on a formal basis every day. The Government's opinion was, however, unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u183	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u184	As I said in the general discussion, I do not understand the disappearance of category D weapons. Do you not think that a simple decree transferring some of these weapons into category C would have been preferable? Is the deletion of category D really necessary to satisfy the European directive? Article L. 311-2 of the Internal Security Code appeared to be satisfactory. It made it possible not to confuse hunters and other possessors of weapons, so to conform to a certain reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u185	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u186	I would like to take the opportunity of this debate on the provisions relating to the acquisition and possession of weapons to report to the Government a situation resulting from a decree of May 2017 applicable in New Caledonia and which is of concern to the Armorers. This decree effectively substitutes a declaratory regime for an authorisation scheme, but the services of the Haussariat – equivalent to the prefecture – are not entitled to issue such authorizations. This has the effect of prolonging procedures and increasing the difficulty for armorers in obtaining authorisations for private sport shooters or hunters, thus importing weapons, which, given our geographical location, do not come from the European Union, but from Australia and New Zealand. I would like to draw the Government's attention to this point. Is it possible to assign to the haussariat of New Caledonia the task of allocating these authorizations, without changing the constraints?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u187	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u188	[[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, you all remember the great debate at the beginning of August 1789 and Mirabeau's statements concerning the carrying of weapons. You know that under the Old Regime, only nobles had the right to carry weapons. In France, within the framework of the draft Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights, but also in the United States, a passionate debate opposed – and continues to oppose – those who affirmed the right of every citizen to bear arms and those who considered this ability too dangerous for society. With this amendment, I propose that you recognize that "the State guarantees citizens the right to have materials, weapons and ammunition, the latter having the duty to respect the conditions laid down by law for their possession. In doing so, it was a question of returning to the philosophy of Mirabeau's amendment at the beginning of August 1789. When a person is denied the right to carry arms, he must be motivated in fact and in law: this would be a balanced society. [[Exclaims on various benches]] As a hunter myself since my tender youth, I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that at present much of our legislation in this area is of no use. I repeat, it's no use! I told the successive ministers of the interior: if you want us to go together to buy a kalashnikov, it's not a problem, we even find it in the Puces! Several colleagues can testify to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u189	Please conclude, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u190	That is the philosophy of this amendment: to return to the spirit of a free society. We should have the right to carry weapons under the laws that regulate it, not the other way around, as at present, where the law prohibits the carrying of weapons, unless there is an exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u192	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u193	It is quite surprising to see Mirabeau summoned on the occasion of the examination of a law transposing a European directive. To use his words, I would say with him that "the best way to abort a revolution [should it be legal] is to ask too much. What you are asking of us, Mr. de Courson, is really considerable: you are asking us to endorse the second amendment of the Constitution of the United States of America, which makes the carrying of weapons a fundamental right. However, it is not to you that I will learn that this is a matter of public freedom and in no way a fundamental right recognized in the 1958 French Constitution. So let us give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u195	Mr President, I thank you for your historical references, but, as the rapporteur has just said, we are not part of the American tradition. On the contrary, I would like to point out that our legal framework is based on a principle of general administrative control over the possession of weapons, with very limited exceptions. Neither the Government nor, I believe, national representation is prepared to reverse this substantive and principled approach. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u196	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u197	[[Smile]] Madam Minister, in essence, you are refusing the Revolution! You refuse to recognize that all citizens are free and have the right to bear arms, under conditions defined by law. And while only the aristocrats had the right to wear them under the Old Regime, you assert that no one will have the right to do so anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u198	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u199	Is this a progress of civilization?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u200	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u201	I doubt it. The United States is a free country. In France, the administrative control of all citizens, who are banned from carrying weapons, with exceptions, leads to the fact that we have not given up legislation for years – for my part, I have seen it for twenty-five years! Madam Minister, have you ever seen a holding-up executed with a hunting weapon?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u202	Or with a Mauser?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u203	Or a musket?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u204	[[Smile]] We'll go to the Puces together, if you want, and we'll buy our Kalashnikov!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u205	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 6, 17, 24 and 29. On these amendments, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u206	I am not going to consider things from a historical point of view, but from the legal point of view of article 34 of the Constitution, according to which "the law lays down the rules concerning civil rights and fundamental guarantees granted to citizens for the exercise of public freedoms...". Excluded from category D classification and free possession of historical weapons and materials of collection appears, in our view, to be in contradiction with the provisions of this article. This could have serious consequences in terms of property, inheritance, freedom of movement and criminal sanctions for collectors of these items, which will no longer be protected by law. Furthermore, Madam Minister, this amendment also takes into account the potential classification of neutralized weapons into category C, which will now impose their declaration in prefecture. It is very simply a matter of allowing collectors, those who intend to participate in commemorations, in military fellowships, to be able to move with these materials without being subjected to excessive pressure. In fact, collectors have, over the years, acquired a number of materials, sometimes receiving them from their parents or grandparents. In addition to this, other people, living in areas of lawlessness – it exists, it must be said clearly – seem to be able to do what they want, when they want, where they want, without ever being controlled – we know very well that, in these areas, controls are rather rare, if not non-existent. Madam Minister, I would like to join our colleague from Courson on the fact that, in any case, it is perceived by public opinion, that collectors are bored more than the last appointed. We would therefore be grateful if you would accept the measure that we propose to you, which would make it possible to comply with article 34 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u207	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u208	The aim of this amendment is to take account of the definition of the reproduction of weapons by the Directive of 17 May 2017. According to this text, if reproductions of firearms are "built using modern techniques that can improve their durability and accuracy", they should be excluded from category D. The amendment also takes into account the potential classification of neutralized weapons into category C, which will now impose their declaration in prefecture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u209	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u210	Since my colleagues have tabled this amendment very well, I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, what will happen to collectors, particularly in the event of a prosecution against them, in the event of a sudden change in the ranking decided unilaterally by the executive power or in the event of a decree potentially contrary to the preservation of the heritage, which can no longer be declared illegal by the courts. We have taken note of your response in your introductory statement, but we believe that the Government still has the opportunity to amend the regulations in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u211	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u212	With this amendment, we intend to provide guarantees to collectors, who, through their presence and activity, our commemorations and patriotic ceremonies, and who are doing useful work to ensure the duty of memory and the preservation of heritage. We seek to assure them of two things: firstly, that they should not be put in the same bag as arms traffickers and holders of dangerous weapons, who are in free circulation; Secondly, that things will always be done between dangerous weapons and others, which are not technically advanced. Madam Minister, you yourself said that if a weapon were not more dangerous, it would not be subject to more stringent conditions. The Council of State has gone in this direction. Persons who use their weapon for recreational or sporting purposes benefit from a special regime. We ask that the same conditions, not more stringent rules, apply to collectors, who work usefully in local communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u214	I would like to try to dissipate, as far as possible, this debate, which has fed our discussions a great deal in recent days. I will make a formal reminder and make two suggestions on the substance. With regard to form, I would like to point out that, while it is up to the legislator to create the categories of weapons, it is the executive branch that is responsible for classifying weapons within those categories. The substance of the 17 May 2017 directive is that neutralised weapons and reproductions of historical weapons which have been improved by modern techniques are classified as category C. It is therefore not a question of prohibiting them, but only of declaring them, and this declaration is subject to the condition that they have benefited from techniques aimed at improving their performance and sustainability. On the other hand, with regard to old weapons and their faithful reproductions, there has never been a question of changing their category: they will remain in category D, which ensures free detention and does not subject them to any particular regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u215	Who decides?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u216	For these reasons, and subject to the additional information that the Minister will bring you in a moment, the committee is against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u217	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u218	Referring to the explanatory memorandum of the amendments, article 34 of the Constitution would require that the law classifys historical and collection weapons as category D. Therefore, the reference of the law to the decree for the classification of these weapons would be contrary to the Constitution. That is not our opinion, and our analysis has received the support of the Council of State. As the rapporteur has just said, it is clearly stated in point 13 of the Council opinion of 14 November 2017 that the classification of weapons within each of the categories – which are laid down by law – falls within the scope of the decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u219	It's about knowing what's going to be in the decree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u220	The Council of State therefore approved the new wording of article L. 311-4 of the Code of Internal Security, re-established by the Law Commission, as it corrects an anomaly in respect of the hierarchy of norms. I would also like to point out that, as drafted, these amendments would have the effect of prohibiting the retention in category D of reproductions of historical weapons, which would penalise collectors. In order to ensure a balance between the protection of the interests of collectors, the Government intends, on the basis of the criteria of the directive, to maintain in freedom the reproductions of historical weapons whose manufacturing technologies would not improve performance. For all these reasons, the Government is opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u221	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u222	We disagree with the rapporteur. The administration says that it will provide regulatory clarification only because the law is not sufficiently precise. It is up to the legislator to assume his responsibilities by offering guarantees to collectors and providing them with detention opportunities. In this regard, Madam Minister, I have noted that we were not doing the same interpretation of section 34 of the Constitution. It is our responsibility to vote for such a provision, to which everyone, including the administration, will have to comply. We will thus offer guarantees that will not be subject to interpretation by one administration or another and that, in the long term, will preserve the activity of collectors and the possession of reproductions of historical weapons and weapons. I therefore do not see how this amendment would involve any malice. We simply want to offer those who, once again, do useful work for our heritage and patriotic ceremonies, the necessary level of guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u223	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 6, 17, 24 and 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u224	The next speaker is Mr Jean Lassalle, who is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u225	[[Smile and applause]] Mr President, I would not like to prolong an excellent evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u226	I have before me seven identical amendments, Nos 1, 7, 10, 33, 64, 72 and 80. On these amendments, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u227	The purpose of this amendment is to allow collectors to acquire and hold weapons of a pre-1946 model. Thus, the weapons of a model before 1900 would be free, as is the case today; those of a model marketed between 1900 and 1946 would be subject to prior authorisation for collectors holding the collector card; They would still be inaccessible to those of a post-1946 model. I would point out that the opinion of the Council of State, as well as Directive 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council, according to which "Member States should be able to decide to grant, under certain conditions of conservation and control, authorised museums and recognised collectors to acquire and hold firearms, essential parts and ammunition of category A if necessary for historical, cultural, scientific, technical, educational or heritage preservation purposes [...]", does not preclude these provisions. My colleague Fabien Di Filippo defended a similar position a few moments ago. I would add that, most of the time, as we know, collectors and reconstructors are the object of a kind of hunt. I have regular exchanges with them; They are a bit the target – if you pass me this word game – of the gendarmerie or customs that are still on their backs while they leave, as we mentioned earlier with Charles de Courson, other people doing what they want, where they want, in other parts of the territory. Minister, I insist, because we have information that associations are about to boycott various commemorations that will be held on the occasion of the centenary of the Armistice on 11 November 2018 or the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Liberation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u228	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u229	Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws, you seem sceptical: that is what we hear on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u230	She's not going!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u231	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u232	In the text adopted by the Law Commission, the possession of Category A firearms is prohibited for collectors. However, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council states that "Member States should be able to decide to grant approved museums and collectors the authorisation to acquire and hold firearms, essential parts and ammunition of category A, if necessary for historical, cultural, scientific, technical, educational or heritage purposes [...]". This amendment is therefore in line with this European directive and is intended to allow collectors, such as museums, to hold Category A firearms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u233	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u234	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u235	Amendment No 33 is also being defended. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u236	We're really being solicited by collectors who don't have gangsters and who don't want to turn France into Far West. They are perfectly honest people, who live their passion. We believe that giving them this authorisation would in no way undermine public order and that the adoption of this amendment would present no danger to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u238	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u239	[[Smile]] Mirabeau's coming back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, in Directive 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council, recital 17 reads: "Member States should be able to decide to grant approved museums and collectors the authorisation to acquire and hold firearms, essential parts and ammunition of category A, if necessary for historical, cultural, scientific, technical, educational or heritage preservation purposes [...]". The issuing of such authorisations may, of course, be accompanied by security or storage conditions and measures. In addition, article 6, paragraph 3, sets out in detail the measures to be taken with regard to collectors. Consequently, this Directive did not provide for a derogation, but for an authorisation. It may be added that, in its opinion, the Council of State does not object in any way to this possibility and that the original wording of the bill provided that it was open in sports, professional or collection activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u242	The French State cannot therefore go against either the spirit or the letter of this directive by denying collectors the opportunity to engage in their leisure to preserve the heritage and to commemorate without clearly discriminating the honest citizens they are. With Amendment No 72, it is a very simple regime that is proposed: the weapons of a model before 1900 would be free; those of a model marketed between 1900 and 1946 would be subject to prior authorisation for collectors holding the collector card; They would be inaccessible to them in a post-1946 model. I would add that the implementing decree which was supposed to implement the provisions of article 5 of the law of 6 March 2012 creating the collector card, was never published by the administration, thus leaving collectors, almost six years after the publication of the law, unable to engage legally in their passion for the heritage. This is a serious failure of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u243	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u244	A parade, a commemoration or historic reconstructions without weapons, or only with those that are not demountable, would lead to aberrations: tanks to which the cannon would have been removed, for example, would become somewhat ridiculous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u245	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u246	If the legislative constraints imposed on collectors of old weapons are legitimate, and if they must, of course, be monitored, these measures are clearly discouraging them, even though they contribute to honouring part of France's memory. The risk is great that the latter will be extinguished due to the lack of stimulation, since the weapons of collection are destined to be placed in broom closets. Some will retort me that collectible weapons lead to violence or may be diverted from their use. It seems to me that, on the contrary, memory is there to remind us of the mistakes of the past, to avoid reproducing them and to remind us of the courage of our elders whom we must honor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u247	It's off-topic!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u248	It is therefore necessary for collectors to be able to retain Category A weapons under the conditions laid down in Article 113 of the Decree of 30 July 2013, i.e. "1 ° Either in safes or strong cabinets adapted to the type and number of materials held; 2 ° Either inside strong rooms with an armored door and whose openings are protected by bars. It is necessary for the memory and history of France to remain alive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u249	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u250	Get in the shelter!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u251	I am trying to look at the whole of the House, because the salves come from all sides, in a consensus that seems very general. To keep nothing from you, I am amazed by the speeches I hear. It will not have escaped you, colleagues, that the bill we are debating this evening will tighten the conditions for the acquisition and possession of weapons. To this end, we have transferred weapons so far classified as Category B into Category A, i.e., their use will be prohibited. In order to enable those who have so far been granted category B authorisations to continue to benefit from them, a few limited possibilities for derogation have been opened. Under no circumstances have collectors so far been allowed to collect Category A or B weapons. Now you are all campaigning on all sides of the House to allow them to collect semi-automatic or automatic weapons, or even weapons of war, which they have been forbidden until today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u252	If they're neutralized, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u253	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I'm very surprised. Of course, the committee is against these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u255	The 2017 Directive allows Member States to allow, by way of derogation, collectors to hold weapons classified under prohibition regime, i.e. category A. That is quite right, but it is only a possibility and not a right. It is essential not to distort the terms. In view of the dangerous nature of the weapons, the Government has chosen not to provide collectors with the possibility of acquiring Category A weapons, as the rapporteur has just said. In fact, he has never considered it, contrary to what some speakers have said, and the bill has never opened up that possibility. I would like to remind you that we are talking here about automatic weapons fired in bursts or semi-automatics with great firepower, of which no one can say, in good faith, that they are not extremely dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u256	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u257	This is a deliberate and assumed choice in favour of public safety: everyone will, it seems to me, be able to understand it, given the state of danger in which we live. Finally, I would point out that this is not a question of vintage, i.e. the age and seniority of the weapon. Weapons are classified according to their technical characteristics, because it is the latter, not their seniority, which determines their danger. The danger posed by Category A weapons, as in the case of Category B weapons mentioned in the summary statement of amendments, requires that they be placed outside the scope of the collection. If weapons are to be declassified, which is still possible, the decommissioning will take place through regulatory decisions. These decisions are made on a case-by-case basis, not by generic reference to vintages. The Government's opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u258	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u259	I thank the Minister very much for her reply, which has been quite precise, in any case more precise than that of the rapporteur. In order to explain the meaning of these amendments, we must go back to the spirit of the directive to which all European countries must theoretically comply if they transpose it directly, as is the case with many directives. We are talking about the possession of weapons by museums or collectors, mainly for historical purposes. Does the proposed device depend on the fact that they are deactivated and neutralised and, therefore, their danger is very low?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u260	Good question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u261	Maybe. In this case, it is possible to amend our amendments, if it can satisfy you, Madam Minister, the rapporteur. Our attitude is not at all, contrary to the rapporteur's description, to promote the proliferation of weapons. Absolutely not. We ask for freedom for collectors – again in a historical context – so that they can participate in commemorations, and we do not want to leave to the regulatory power the possibility to decide, as you said, on a case-by-case basis, discretionaryly, we want to impose a legislative framework on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u262	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u263	Madam Minister, thank you for reminding you of the possibility opened up by the directive. However, you have not clarified the position that the various Member States of the Union have taken in this respect. Some apply it, this possibility. Thus, if an association of German veterans comes to march at our invitation, in order to show the younger generations what the fighters of 1914-1918 were, its members will be able to come with their weapons of collection, but our Poilus will march with them empty hands!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u264	Harmonisation would be welcome!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u265	You can see it's not consistent. If we make a Community directive, it is to have a minimum of homogeneity in Europe. This is my first observation. Second, you have not responded, Madam Minister, to the second problem, that six years after the passage of the Act of March 6, 2012, the legislative order to create a collector's card has not yet been published. Will this card finally see the day?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u266	I'll answer you later, Mr. de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u267	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1, 7, 10, 33, 64, 72 and 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u268	They're gonna be happy, collectors!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u269	I call Mr Latomb to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u270	It is a question of proposing a coordination amendment, not of relaunching the discussion. The current wording of the third sentence of article L. 312-2 of the Code of Internal Security provides that "certain war materials may be acquired and held at the end of the collection". The purpose of this amendment is, for reasons of consistency, to incorporate the possibility of detention into the addition provided for in the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u271	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u272	This addition is quite positive. The committee delivered a favourable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u273	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 9, 14 and 46. Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u274	This amendment is intended to delete article 17, paragraph 16, in order to allow the proper preservation of the heritage and the maintenance of historical and collection materials and weapons in category D, because of their lack of danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u275	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u276	It is indeed a question of deleting paragraph 16, since the repeal of article L. 312-4-2 of the Code of Internal Security is unnecessary and contrary to the proper preservation of the heritage. In view of the removal from category D of hunting weapons – formerly in category D1 and falling into category C – only historical and collection materials and weapons forming an integral part of the heritage, i.e. vehicles, ships, aircraft, neutralized radios, of military origin prior to 1 January 1946, as well as old weapons prior to 1 January 1900 or neutralized, remain classified as category D. However, in view of their lack of proven danger and their heritage importance, the proper preservation of these historical and collection materials and weapons requires that they be kept in category D, in free custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u277	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u278	He's being defended, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u280	The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u282	Article L. 312-4-2 of the Code of Internal Security, which is repealed by paragraph 16 and which the amendments tend to restore, constitutes redundancy and, above all, it is contrary to the directive which we transpose. It is redundant with article L. 311-2, which already provides that category D falls under a regime of freedom of detention. It is not necessary for the law to say the same thing twice, however, what the first paragraph of article L. 312-4-2 does. In addition, this Article is in contradiction with the Directive. In its second paragraph, it provides, while not explicitly naming it, for the registration scheme for category D1, which the Directive abolishes. For these two reasons, Article L. 312-4-2 should be repealed and the identical amendments should therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u283	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 3, 20, 67 and 74. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u284	[[Exclaims and protests on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mr rapporteur, there are not several categories of Members here. I did not appreciate the way you answered us earlier. The deputies of the running Republic and MODEM would be reasonable and the others irresponsible, extremists, cowboys? Of course! Everyone knows that Mr. de Courson is an irresponsible man who wants to let everything happen! That's what you said about people who weren't in the majority! It would be good, Mr rapporteur, for you to also respect the people who sit on benches other than yours. There is not here, on the one hand, the responsible, on the other, the irresponsible. The amendment seeks to draft article L. 312-4-2 of the Code of Internal Security as follows: "The weapons and historical and collectible materials mentioned in article L. 311-3, except those mentioned in 3° and 4°, are classified in category D." I would also like to confirm what the colleagues said earlier. The Council of State's opinion states: "If the historical weapons themselves can remain in category D redesigned, now limited to weapons whose acquisition and possession are totally free, some of their reproductions will now have to be classified, at least, in category C."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u285	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u286	As this amendment is the same as the previous one, you can consider it defended, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u287	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u288	Same comment. Given the absence of proven danger to the weapons in question, and given their heritage importance, we request that they be kept in category D, in free custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u289	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u290	Ladies and gentlemen, we have withdrawn from category D the hunting weapons, which, once classified as D1, pass into C. What remains in D? Historical and collection materials and weapons, which form an integral part of the heritage. These include vehicles, ships, aircraft, neutralized radios, of military origin prior to 1 January 1946, and old weapons prior to 1 January 1900. Are they dangerous? No, they're neutralized. Since there is no proven danger to these weapons and they are interesting from a heritage point of view, the proper preservation of these historical and collection materials and weapons requires that they be kept in category D, in free custody. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u292	The state of mind that was mine during the consideration of article 16 is unchanged. The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u293	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u294	As I have already said, the competence to classify weapons is a matter of regulatory power, not of law. In addition, I would point out that the proposed wording would prohibit any retention in category D of historical weapons reproductions, which would penalize the collectors you defended. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u295	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u296	Paragraph 20 should be supplemented by the words "with the exception of weapons or materials as defined in article L. 311-3". The purpose of this amendment is to exclude neutralized historical and collection materials and weapons from the scope of the prefect's power to order any holder of a weapon to divest himself of them. Indeed, in view of their absence of proven danger and their heritage importance, it is appropriate that only the judge may order their divestiture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u298	These are grounds of public order that allow the prefect to order any owner of a weapon to divest himself of it, without having to go through the judge of freedoms and detention. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u300	As far as the form is concerned, this amendment falls outside the scope of the Directive and its transposition. As for the substance, the divestiture procedure provided for in Article L. 312-11 concerns the protection of public order and public safety. Therefore, this procedure only makes sense if its scope concerns all firearms, because it is the possession of weapons that alone underpins this administrative measure. In addition, it would be very risky to distinguish among firearms held by an individual those that would be less dangerous, because old or copies of old weapons, and others that would be more dangerous. Even if the weapons are historic, they remain firearms, designed and manufactured to hurt or kill: that is the very definition of the weapon. Their danger remains proven. When public safety is threatened, this is enough to establish a divestment. For all these reasons, the Government is against this amendment, as it will be against those with the same object.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u301	We come to a long series of identical amendments, Nos 2, 8, 12, 19, 66, 73 and 85. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u302	The aim is to allow collectors to acquire and hold Category A and B weapons for models prior to 1946. To this end, the amendment tends to add at the end of article L. 312-6-3 of the Code of Internal Security: "categories A and B of a model prior to 1 January 1946 and category C under the conditions defined by decree".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u303	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u304	In the continuation of the amendment that I have previously defended, it tends to provide for the possibility of applying in the prefecture for authorization to acquire and possess categories A and B of firearms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u305	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u306	He's being defended, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u307	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u308	This amendment tends to introduce permission for collectors to acquire and hold. The weapons of a model before 1900 would be free, those of a model between 1900 and 1946 subject to prior authorization for collectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u309	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u310	It follows the same logic as the amendments that have just been tabled by colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u311	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u312	I hope that it is on the occasion of this amendment that you will finally answer, Madam Minister, my question on the collector's card. For if the 2012 law implementing the law defining the status of the collector was finally published, which would allow the issuance of a card, greater freedom could be provided for the possession of weapons belonging to the category concerned. We've only been waiting for six years! We are therefore eager, Madam Minister, to know when this famous decree will be published.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u313	We haven't been in power since 2012!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u314	They're not here, the ones who were there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u315	You have nothing to do with it, but don't wait four more years! We are waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u316	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u317	As my colleague has just pointed out, the law of 6 March 2012 created a collector's card for citizens who hold collectible weapons. However, the decrees implementing this law have not yet been adopted, which, in 2018, poses a concrete problem already raised by some colleagues: at present, there is no guarantee that collectors will be able to participate calmly in the commemorations of the centenary of 1918 with their equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u318	Yes, she's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u319	A very large number of them are at risk of being discouraged from participating because of the current climate of legal and administrative uncertainty that the bill, as it stands, does not in any way ease. Checks of military vehicles of collection and road-licensed, searches of old materials and ammunition, and the zeal of customs authorities in the circulation of weapons of collection risk paralyzing the trade of these collectors, hindering their freedom to live their passion fully, and hypothecizing their presence at commemorative ceremonies, especially that of 1918, while the military equipment of collection represents a fundamental aspect of the dignity and solemnity of these patriotic commemorations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u321	We find the argument in favour of the acquisition of Category A and B weapons, to which we are opposed. I also note a recurrence of the question about the collector's card: perhaps the minister will be able to provide us with some clarification on this point. Unfavorable opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u323	It is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u324	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u325	Nevertheless, I want to give you an explanation, which will be a little long. I will start with a preliminary observation. It seems to me rather paradoxical that the collection of weapons and war materials is at the heart of the discussion, as if there was a threat to this activity, while the bill does not remove or alter any rights of collectors. None! I therefore do not understand the reactions on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u326	We're putting more pressure on collectors!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u327	Please, sir, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u328	If you make a mistake, I have to correct it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u329	The executive, I said, has no plans to make such a change. I come to the question raised by the rapporteur and a number of other speakers, and ask you in advance to excuse the length of the statement. The Law of 6 March 2012 on the Establishment of a Simplified and Preventive Modern Arms Control provided for the establishment of a collector's card, with reference to a decree to specify the procedures for its issuance. You are right, this decree has not been adopted and it is obviously regrettable, since the mandate of the legislator, on this specific point, has not been respected. There are two explanations for this. The first is the difficulty of identifying an association of collectors who are consensus and able to attest to the purpose of the collection. Because collecting, under the 2012 law, is not accumulating. The law sets a particular purpose for weapons collections: "the valorization of the heritage, its knowledge and its study. This requirement must be verified and met.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u330	There's work to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u331	In order to organize this status of weapons collector, it is also necessary to recognize the difficulty of reconciling administrative simplicity for those concerned, the reasonableness of the management burden for the administration and the protection of public security for all. I also note that the absence of an implementing decree did not prevent collectors from engaging in their passion. Historical weapons and their reproductions, at the heart of the collection's theme, are free to acquire and hold without being dependent on any status of the holder. Other provisions guarantee the participation of collectors in historical reconstructions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u332	Yes, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u333	... of which we have heard a lot – as if some were more patriotic than others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u334	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u335	I am thinking in particular of the collections of war material. These provisions are applicable and enforced, and there is no need to have a collector's card. However, the will of the legislator must be respected. I note, moreover, that this will be necessary tomorrow more than today because of the classification in category C...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u336	That's it, exactly! All right, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u337	... neutralized weapons – which may be collectible – and for which a legitimate reason for detention must be identified.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u338	What does that mean, "legitimate"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u339	I'm not finished, Mr Cordier. I have therefore asked the central arms department of the Ministry of the Interior to provide, in the law enforcement order we are discussing, the components of this collector's status and the procedures for issuing the collector's card. As he has always done, the Ministry of the Interior will work together on this and other issues. Moreover, it has never ceased, with regard to this theme of the weapons collection, since 2013. And this decree will have to be published in the Official Gazette no later than 14 September of this year, the date of entry into force of the directive that we are transposing and, as far as arms are concerned, the bill that we are discussing. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the REM group]] Now, Mr Cordier, you can talk: I'm done.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u340	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u341	I want to congratulate you, Madam Minister, as you are going to do in nine months what your predecessors have not done in six years. That is to say, we look forward to the decree. However, over the next nine months, the services will be able to restore the same arguments they have given you to explain the non-publication of the Order during those six years. But as you are, I know, a woman of authority, you will tell them that you are not like your predecessors, and that you therefore apply the decisions of the legislator, even though the administration did not appreciate the vote of the 2012 law. Let us respect Parliament's decisions! I am surprised, moreover, that the committee responsible did not put pressure on the Government in assessing the texts we are voting on. In any case, minister, be flexible in the definition of collectors, because collectibles are diverse. Some are passionate about crossbows, others about firearms, for example. In short, let's get out of here quickly to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u342	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u343	[[Smile]] No long speeches about crossbows, huh...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u344	[["Oh! » on several benches of the REM group]] [[Smile]] I'm talking, Madam Minister. We play tennis: it's old as the world! We note with satisfaction this small progress and the deadline of 14 September. However, I would like to point out that the eagerness, with regard to the collector's card, is due to the tightening of the legislation on the possession of collectible weapons, even if they are neutralized, as our colleagues pointed out earlier in the commemorations. This hardening makes the procedures for obtaining and possessing these weapons more binding, and I would remind you that they cannot be used: locking systems prevent them from being used to pull them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u345	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 4, 11, 16, 21 and 75. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u346	In view of the removal of category D from the D1 category to the C category, as you mentioned earlier, only historical and D2 collection materials and weapons forming an integral part of the heritage, i.e. the materials previously mentioned by Charles de Courson: vehicles, ships, aircraft or radios, neutralized, of military origin and prior to 1 January 1946, as well as old weapons prior to 1 January 1900, remain classified as category D. In view of their proven lack of danger and their heritage importance, the proper preservation of these historical and collection materials and weapons requires that only the judge of freedoms and detention, not the prefect, be empowered to order their divestment to a collector. In view of the principle of public freedoms, it is therefore a matter of increasing the power of the judge of freedoms and detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u347	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u348	This amendment provides that it will no longer be the prefect who will order the divestiture of a collector, but the judge of freedoms and detention, for category D weapons, given their absence of proven danger and their heritage importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u349	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u350	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u351	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u352	Given their heritage importance, the proper preservation of these historical and collection materials and weapons requires that only the judge of freedoms and detention be empowered to order their divestment to a collector, not just the prefect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u353	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u354	I've already defended him four times!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u356	As I said earlier, it is the prefect who, for reasons of public order, can order any holder of a weapon to divest himself of it without going through the judge of freedoms and detention. This, of course, applies to all weapons. It may be recalled that, if the act of the prefect is manifestly illegal, it may be appealed to the administrative courts – for example, for overpowering. The opinion therefore remains unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u358	It remains the same as on the identical amendments previously rejected: unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u359	We come to amendments with additional articles after Article 19. I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 5, 13, 15, 22, 28, 69 and 76. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u360	The controls, as I said earlier, are often similar to a real hunt for collectors and reconstitutors, so they are expensive. Those who contest it have only to question the interested ones on this point – I do not know if you know of it. The aim of this amendment is therefore to ensure that these persons are able to participate freely in commemorations. As part of the 1918 centenary, a number of local authorities made contacts with associations and enthusiasts. We will all be happy, by cutting off the ribbons and listening to La Marseillaise, to see these reconstitutions and those Poilus at your attention in front of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u361	Poilus, there's no more!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u362	[["Oh! » on the benches of the REM group]] I want to talk about people dressed in Poilus, my dear colleague: we have to go out a little on Sundays!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u363	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u364	"Mustful" arrests and unwarranted searches have already occurred. So we could, I believe very honestly, relax things a little, in order to avoid that we are always "on the back" of collectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u365	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u366	This amendment provides for the right to transport materials and weapons with a view to a cultural event of a historical nature, which constitutes a legitimate ground for carrying such materials. The collector's card would be a legitimate transport ticket.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u367	Mr Gilles Lurton, in support of Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u368	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u369	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor in support of Amendment No 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u370	This amendment has been defended by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u371	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u372	Notwithstanding the entry into force, after many years, of the collector's map, we hope that those who engage in the reconstructions that enhance our commemorations will not be bothered when they carry the weapons to the memorial site. We would therefore simply like to see some flexibility in carrying weapons in these historical activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u373	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u374	The same comment, the same will to legislate in order to guarantee the possibility of participating freely in commemorations, in accordance with respect for individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u375	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u376	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u377	It is true that the circulation of weapons is a problem, whether they are transported for hunting, demonstration or other reasons. If we are arrested during a check on the ground floor, we are exposed to a lot of problems or, sometimes, confiscations. The idea of this amendment is that it will be enough for the controlled person to carry either his hunting permit when he holds a hunting weapon, his shooting licence if he is a shooter, or the collector's card – since the Minister's statements give us hope that from September onwards, the order will be made and these cards will begin to be issued. The aim is therefore to ensure the free movement of those who are in one of these three situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u378	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u379	Since the Minister has certainly reassured the collectors of their legitimate concerns, the committee will give an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u380	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u381	Unfavorable opinion. These amendments are not necessary because, as Mr de Courson has just said, it is enough to have the hunting permit or the invitation, if you go to a patriotic demonstration. There is therefore no reason to legislate again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u382	Can the invitation be enough?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u383	In addition, as you said, the collector's card will be another legitimate reason for transporting collected weapons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u384	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u385	First of all, I would like to reassure my colleague Cordier: it has been twenty-two years since my first election as mayor that I have been out on Sundays. I even have light on my bike. So I don't have a lesson to learn. I, too, organize patriotic ceremonies several times a year. Rather, I have the feeling that they are a moment of recollection to celebrate peace, not those who have had to use war material, intended to take life. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I am shocked that for an hour, after Mr de Courson's words, you have been trying to convince us of the need for complete freedom to sell and transport weapons in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still a few more efforts, and you will be able to go even further to the right of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u386	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u387	As I cannot satisfy four requests to speak in the same group, I will give the right to the first person who asked for the floor. Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u388	Madam Minister, I do not share your opinion on the usefulness of these amendments. They have at least the merit of opening the debate on the subject of the transport by collectors of neutralized, deactivated weapons. It is enough to read the press, even without going out on Sundays, to see that many collectors have been seized of their property, acquired or sometimes inherited from their grandparents. As a result of this debate, the minister, you announced tonight that collector cards should be provided as of September 2018. This will be included in the minutes, and it will be easy to verify in nine months. This measure has been announced for five years, but we have not only seen the colour of it. As Mr Questel has said, maintaining patriotic ceremonies and enhancing their return through this type of material makes it possible to interest young people in their history, in their great-grandparents who have fallen into the field of honour or who have fought for our freedom. This is the real subject. To give the greatest realism, it is important to let collectors move, dressed in period outfits or reconstructed, and equipped with weapons that, I repeat, are demilitarized. Enough of this hypocrisy where, on the one hand, we are trying to hinder the freedom of collectors, and on the other hand, we are giving lessons to all patriotic ceremonies, to all the general assemblies of patriotic associations, saying, as I hear here and in other communities, that we will do everything to cultivate this duty of memory!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u389	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u390	I thank the minister, whose words have given me satisfaction. She said publicly that if you are arrested with a weapon corresponding to the hunting permit, the shooting license or the collector's card, you are in a very regular situation and you cannot be bothered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u391	Even an invitation is enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u392	As my amendment No 76 is satisfied, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u393	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u394	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] More than on the substance, I would like to go back to the form of the summary statement of most of the amendments tabled. "The displacements have become impossible and cause for anxiety, because of the excessive zeal of officials who systematically carry out forceful arrests followed by traumatic and unjustified searches," it says. To make such a statement with regard to the forces of law and order, which, in the context we know, carry out their work, is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u395	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u396	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u397	He's being defended, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u398	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 23 and 77, to bring the additional article after Article 21a. Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u399	Excluding historical weapons and materials from category D appears to be in contradiction with article 34 of the Constitution. As a result of the departure from free detention, the legislator cannot transfer to the executive power the task of settling a matter relating to public freedoms which remains its exclusive competence, without the latter having to account for its decisions to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u400	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u401	The purpose of this amendment is to request a report on the application of this Act concerning collecting weapons and their reproductions. We have discussed this subject at length, with passion, for years. It will therefore also be a matter of taking stock of the implementation of the law that we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u402	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u403	Both in form and in substance, we have already discussed these issues, which is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u404	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u405	The added value of a report on the weapons classification regime would seem very limited to me, but if Mr Charles de Courson wants to draft a report, I do not want to deprive him of it. I therefore rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u406	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u407	As we come to Title III of the draft law, I would like to recall that its provisions concern Galileo, the European satellite positioning and radionavigation system, whose secure precision service is an important tool of our sovereignty. For this reason, it seemed useful to me to clarify its name and its origin, in order to distinguish it from other systems, be it the American GPS, the Russian GLONASS or the Chinese Beidou, and to recall its name in the title of the chapter and the title of the bill. However, since the members of the Law Committee have assured me that the drafting of the article was legal, I propose to withdraw this amendment and the following amendment, No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u408	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u409	Almost twenty years ago, the construction of the Galileo project, this European satellite radionavigation system, was initiated by the European Union, in cooperation with the European Space Agency. Galileo is an essential element for the sovereignty of our country and Europe. It should be a tool for economic and strategic autonomy vis-à-vis the existing systems on which we depend. I am thinking in particular of the American GPS. Unfortunately, as I had the opportunity to recall in the general discussion, we have taken a close look at foreign investment, without worrying about the possible transfer of technology, particularly with the Chinese, who launched their own radionavigation system some time after signing an agreement on Galileo. Maybe it's not quite a coincidence, and it's a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u410	Mrs Pouzyreff, can we consider, by parallelism of forms, that you are withdrawing Amendment No 79?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u411	That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u412	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, in support of Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u413	History will note that we will have examined some 40 amendments on weapons of collection and conducted little debate on fundamental things that affect national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u414	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u415	As you know, ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to France's independence in all areas and we welcome this Galileo project. Galileo concerns our satellite radionavigation system, which, as has been recalled, has its origin in the desire to free itself from the American satellite system, the Global Positioning System – GPS. We had to deal with the work of many American decision-makers. As we have often stated during the presidential campaign, we strongly support the completion of Galileo, scheduled for 2020. As you know, the United States has done its utmost to prevent Europe's independence in the field of telecommunications satellites, in order to maintain its supremacy and monopoly. Since the 2004 agreement, Euro-American cooperation has been in place to ensure the technical interoperability of Galileo and GPS. However, it is desirable that the current Government and the European Union promote global interoperability of global satellite navigation systems, the Global Navigation Satellite System – GNSS – not only between Galileo and GPS, but between Galileo, GLONASS and Beidou. We therefore call for an information report analysing the technical, political and geostrategic advantages and disadvantages of the priority given to cooperation between Galileo and GPS alone. We also want to analyse the advantages and disadvantages of a rapprochement between GLONASS and Beidou systems in order to eventually conclude an agreement allowing global interoperability of global satellite navigation systems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u416	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u417	We are returning to a discussion that has already been extensively nourished. We reminded the committee that interoperability already exists in certain sectors between European, American, Canadian and Russian operators. But this is about interoperability in a highly sensitive sector: Galileo's encrypted system, in defence for the Americans, civil for us. It's risky to go to this field. As I did in committee, I would ask you, my dear colleague, if you are particularly interested in the matter, to come closer to the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, chaired by Cédric Villani, who is working on these issues. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u418	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u419	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u420	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u421	I do not want to prolong a late debate, but I do not understand the answer given to me. You are telling me, my dear colleague, that because the subject is sensitive, we could not talk about it here. But finally, we are Parliament! I do not understand that, on such a question, you answered me that way. You cannot tell me at the same time that the subject is very important and that, therefore, it is not for Parliament to talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u422	I call Mr Euzet to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u423	This is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u424	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-31-O1130.u425	Next sitting, today, at 9:30 a.m.: Proposal for a law on burn-out, aiming at the recognition of mental illnesses resulting from occupational exhaustion as occupational diseases; Motion for a resolution on the democratic importance of the use of the referendum route for the ratification of the free trade treaty between the European Union and Canada; Proposal for a constitutional law to make access to water an inalienable right; Proposal for a law on the establishment of a receipt in the context of an identity check; Proposal for a law on euthanasia and assisted suicide, for a dignified end of life. The meeting is adjourned.
