ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. I remember the ladies. Members who are electing a member to the Information System Monitoring Board of the Portuguese Republic ( CFSIRP ) during the plenary session. For the result of the election to be announced during this session, I think it would be prudent if the polls were open until 17 p.m. so that we can still communicate their outcome in good time. There is no opposition, so it will be done. from our agenda consists, by marking the Left Block, the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 533 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Eliminates the schemes from the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability by 15. the amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 7 February ( BE), 534 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the legal regime applicable to term contracts by implementing the recommendations of the « Working Party for the Preparation of a National Plan for Combating Precaire » ( BE ), 186 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revoking the adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms, in group and by collective regulation, by proceeding with 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( PCP ), 187 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Revokes the application to public servants of the adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms by 3. the amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Labour Law in Public Functions ( PCP ) and 211 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revok individual adaptability mechanisms and the individual hourly bank, with effect from 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). Before we begin the debate, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 530 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the alternative supply of vegetable beverages under the school milk programme by promoting amendment to Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 531 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the promotion of fruit and other healthy food products in school premises / bars by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 532 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Disincentives the sale of food exceeding sugar, fat and salt in automatic sales machines in schools by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 533 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the schemes from the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability by 15. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 7 February ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 534 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the legal regime applicable to term contracts by implementing the recommendations of the « Working Party for the Preparation of a National Plan for Combating Precaire » ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 535 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alterly Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August ( legal regime for the operation of local accommodation) clarifying that any opposition of the condominium to the exploitation of local housing establishments shall be recorded in the title constituting horizontal property, the condominium regulation contained in that title, if any, or in the regulation of condominium or settlement of the assembly of approved condominiums approved without opposition and provided that properly registered ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 536 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — establishes the requirement for information to the consumer in the bill of water on data relating to the quality of water for consumption and the referral of waste for management operations by amending Decree-Law No 114 / 2014 of 21 July ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 537 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — lays down measures to protect oaks and other native species of the Portuguese flora ( Os Verdes ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 538 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — prohibits hunting for foxes and crabs and excludes these species from the List of Cinderella Species, making the eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 202/2004 of 18 August ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 539 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extends the scope of labelling rules for genetically modified foods ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 540 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthen protection rules against exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from high voltage lines, amending Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 541 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to the working-law of external peripheral workers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including workers of the official residences of the State, approved by Decree-Law No 47 / 2013 of 5 April, as amended by Law No 66 / 2013 of 27 August ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions Nos. 896 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends an extended participation in the process of renewing the Plan for the Management of the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina to the special programme and the creation of support and incentive mechanisms for the creation of local employment ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 897 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by building a regional public slaughterhouse in the Algarve ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 898 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard Robinson's cortical industrial heritage ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 899 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extends social protection to children in the context of the fight against child poverty ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 900 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to pre-school education for all children from three years of age and the extension of social action in the context of combating child poverty ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 901 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that family doctor be given priority to all children and young people, strengthens and generalizes free access to specialist consultations ( dental medicine and ophthalmology) and antiparasitic drugs in the context of combating child poverty ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 902 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government protect occasional providers of local housing services from any deterioration in the legal regime of local housing ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 903 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote, within the Standing Committee on Social Consultation, the debate on the implementation of the leave without extraordinary remuneration and the evaluation and in-depth evaluation of the Cheque-Training measure ( CDS-PP ), 904 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate, within the Standing Committee of the Social Consensus, a debate with a view to recognizing and implementing the right to lay down workers and to include new situations which may be admissible for the exercise of telework, as well as regulating the exercise of telework in public service ( CDS-PP ), 905 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate, at the social level, a debate with a view to improving collective bargaining, in particular to resume the 2014 agreement on expiry and survival of collective labour contracts ( CDS-PP ), 906 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to ensure compliance with the law with respect to the reduction in the number of hospital infections ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 907 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the appreciation of the extension of the continental shelf ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 908 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government resume the planning plan of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park as an integrated and participating development tool ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 909 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Review of the Convention of Albufeira ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 910 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Diligence to eradicate the use of glyphosate ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 911 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make every effort with the Spanish State to stop uranium exploration in Salamanca, at our border ( The Greens ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 912 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by environmental education as a valued component of the public school ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 913 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the implementation of a scheme similar to that of the coordinators of the School Libraries / Resource Centres for the coordinators of the Eco-School Project ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco, for the work done, demonstrating once again high professionalism in reading the dossier. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start the debate, I would like to remind you that a member is being elected to the Information System Monitoring Board of the Portuguese Republic ( CFSIRP ) and that the polls will be open until 5 p.m. To present the projects of lein.os 533 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Eliminates the schemes from the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability by 15. the amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 7 February and 534 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In addition to the legal regime applicable to the term of contract, implementing the recommendations of the « Working Party for the Preparation of a National Plan for Combating Precaire », of the Left Block, Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are bringing to this Parliament today two projects which aim to implement commitments made in the fight against precariousness and deregulation of working hours, and we do so for essential reasons. The first reason has to do with the importance and centrality that we give to this matter. Combating precariousness is a priority of democracy and is one of the foundations of the present majority. in the last year and half, the number of unemployed had a significant and unpublished reduction, even though the existence of 450 000 people registered as unemployed is still unbearable. The income recovery strategy helped to boost domestic consumption and accelerated economic recovery. We have a growth rate of 2, 8 % and 150 000 jobs have been created. contrary to what was said on the right, the agreement made on the left to raise the minimum wage and to return income and social support allowed to reverse the trajectory in which the country was immersed with the austerity policy. The country is better now than it was two years ago, but if the country — and I mean the country in abstract — is better, there is still the concrete life of people who continue to solve. Only by advancing in the protection of work and in the fight against precariousness is that we will be able to translate in the daily lives of those who live in their work the successes of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u6	It was possible this year and a half to regain the level of employment in the period prior to the crisis. The question now arises is what employment has recovered, what the quality of the job created. Portugal has historically a value above the European average in terms of long-term contracts. in the second quarter of 2016, the term contracts represented 22, 6 % of the work on behalf of others. in that same period, the term contracts increased by 5 %, while the term contracts increased by only 0, 8 %. Only one in five of the new contracts are permanent and about 20 % of contracts are short-term. Among young people up to 24 years old, non-permanent contracts reach 67, 5 %. That is, seven out of every 10 young people have a long-term contract — a number far above the European average, which is around 45 %. As is known, a precarious worker is increasingly vulnerable to unemployment. It is not by chance that one-third of unemployment registered at the IEFP (Employment and Vocational Training Institute) comes from the end of term contracts and more than half of unemployment allowances result from the termination of an end-of-work contract. A precarious worker also has a lower wage and is more vulnerable to poverty. According to INE surveys, nine out of every 10 of these young people with long-term contracts would like to have a permanent contract. in reality, many of these young people perform permanent functions, i.e. they could have an effective contract. But the law allows that, just because they are young in search of a first job, they can have a long-term contract, even when the tasks they carry out are not the temporary needs of the companies. In other words, there is a part of this precariousness which is objectively and directly the responsibility of whom it is legislated. The projects we bring to the debate today aim to implement commitments already made explicitly in the Government Programme and which are also the result of the recommendations signed by the Working Group on the National Plan against Poverty. This Working Group, whose report is public, was composed of two representatives of the Left Block, two representatives of the Socialist Party, the Secretary of State for Employment and two independent specialists, Prof. Dr. Jorge Leite and Prof. Guilherme Dray, who was also responsible for the Green Paper on Labour Relations, committed himself to a set of changes that had to be left. Adjournment is not solving! [[Congratulations from BE.]] The first bill we present here seeks to combat the abuse that has existed in the use of future contracts. According to the law, a term contract is admissible only, and I quote Article 140. that of the Labour Code, « (...) to satisfy the company's temporary need and for the period strictly necessary to satisfy that need ». The principle is reasonable and would in itself prevent permanent tasks from being performed by long-term workers. The problem is that this legal provision has been added to another point in the same article, whose only intention was to create a window through which a whole world of exceptions to this principle became admissible. Article 140 ( 4 ). it consecrates black holes where basically the principle of law does not apply. And there are three points provided for: there may be term contracts even for functions that are not temporary if: (a) we are talking about young people seeking the first job; (b) we are talking about long-term unemployed; (c) we are talking about the launch of new activity or, even more perverse, a new establishment of the same company up to 750 workers. The reasons for these exceptions, you can imagine, were the most benevolent: they would be used to support the economy and to stimulate the hiring of certain social groups with more difficulty in finding a job opportunity. There are public policies to support the beginning of economic activity...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u7	Mr President, I ask you to interrupt for just one second. I'm asking the ladies. Members who remain silent in the Chamber, because it is becoming impossible to hear what the speaker is saying. So, I'm asking the ladies. Members who are standing in the various seats, please sit down or, then, leave, so that the intervention can proceed normally. You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that the existence of public policies to support the start of economic activity or the employment of young people and unemployed people makes all the sense. In fact, these policies exist, they must continue to exist and only sin when they are no longer demanding and selective in the counterparties that require the companies that are supported, but supporting the economy is not creating loopholes that allow, for example, a new supermarket in a chain installed decades ago in the country to have all its workers in the long term, even for permanent functions, up to 750 workers. To provide opportunities for young people and unemployed people is certainly not attributed to one another a second job status, as if protecting young people and unemployed people would make them subordinate. A young person, simply because he is young, must not be reduced as a right holder; an unemployed person, because he is unemployed, should not have amputated protection when he has a job opportunity. These legal loopholes are not a measure of employment support policy; they are a legal scheme for the active promotion of precariousness, they are an artifact that has allowed to transform future contracts into a kind of extended experimental period, which is contrary to the basic principles of labour law, are a form of negative discrimination for young people, and they are a strategy offered to businesses to perpetuate precariousness. So you have to finish. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The second proposal that we bring here also aims to remove from the Labour Code one of the most abating measures that the right introduced and which had a clear objective: to reduce the cost of work, due to the deregulation of schedules and the practical possibility of an employer imposing unilaterally on the worker this flexibility, even above individually, to make extraordinary hours without paying him any compensation for it. In 2012 it was added to the modality of the hourly bank, provided for by collective regulation instrument, the individual hourly bank. In other words, the hours bank scheme was able to be established by an agreement between employer and worker, and the agreement can be concluded by a written proposal from the employer and it is assumed that the lack of written opposition to the proposal, that is, the written silence of the worker, even when accompanied by verbal opposition, corresponds to the acceptance of the proposal. In addition to reducing the cost of work, the law has an effect that goes beyond the economics, which is that of the personal devaluation of the worker, to whom it is intended to prove, by the possibility of this imposition, that it will have to « shut up and eat». As long as the law has a negative fact, the individual hour bank has this overwhelming effect, which is intolerable in working relations that, being unbalanced by nature, it is true, however, cannot be a crushing one of the parties. Invocation, in this context, of supposed freedom of the parties is only an almost cynical way of masking unilateral imposition mechanisms. The figure of the individual hour bank and the figure of individual adaptability, which is your siamese sister, undermines the flexibility of hours to any collective negotiation and is the expression of an employer despotism which should not have been accepted in our legal order. This leads me to the second reason which explains the relevance of this debate today and here, and which results from the path we have made and from the expectations that we are obliged to respond to. There are people in the country who look at this Parliament knowing that here was a majority who assumed that combating precariousness would be a priority in the public and in the private sector. The fight against precariousness has a par excellence of decision-making and realisation in Parliament. It is Parliament which has the exclusive status of amendments to labour legislation. Only Parliament has the legitimacy to make these amendments and therefore the debate begins in Parliament, it is in Parliament that the democratic representation of the country rests in Parliament that, by imposing the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the Labour Code and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, the participation of labour organisations in the drafting of legislation through its public discussion and the hearings held here. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is Parliament today that has an obligation not to fail those who are waiting for the country's successes to also be concrete changes in their lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The XXI Constitutional Government Programme identifies the need for « to revoke the possibility introduced in the 2012 Labour Code of the existence of a bank of individual hours by mere agreement between the employer and the worker ». The Government Programme also indicates on page 24 the commitment, and I quote, « of the repeal of the Labour Code standard which allows for the long-term recruitment of permanent jobs for young people seeking first and long-term unemployed ». Now, the projects we are discussing today implement these commitments that are included in the Government Programme, which was appreciated by this House, and also result in deep work done over the months, which involved the Left Block, the Socialist Party and the Government and whose report is public. These - the Government Programme and the report of the working group - are the public agreements that exist in the field of labour. No employer veto, no freezing must overlap with these values and priorities, which are the basis of the current political majority. This is it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the time to respond by those we represent, by the majority of the country, by those who want to be respected in their work. These are, and let us not forget, the foundation of our mandate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u9	To ask for clarification, the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy entered in writing. Deputies Antonio Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP, and Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD. I ask the honourable Member how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u10	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u11	Of course, Mr. Deputies. You then have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u12	Mr. President, Mr. José Soeiro, this debate today on the hourly bank and the termination of the contract results from a power schedule of the Left Block. Mr Soeiro, there are a number of questions that need to be clarified and I would even say that there are some paradoxes that Mr Soeiro has to clarify, and the first result is this unbridled competition on the left, between the Left Block and the CFP, to mark the agenda. If the Left Block has scheduled two projects on the topic, the PCP will soon schedule three. But, in fact, the Left Block projects only entered the Bureau on June 1, so they will not be able to be voted on, because the mandatory 30 days of the public consultation have not yet passed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u13	PCP's can't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u14	With regard to the participation of the unions, which you have mentioned about the rostrum, we are talking about. Now, PCP bills can be voted on and it was good for the Left Block to clarify : will do what? Will you vote in favour of the PCP, we will vote in favour of the PCP today, without voting yours? What are we gonna stay on?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u15	What about the subject, Mr. Deputies? Talk about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u16	Are we going to vote for something today? That is the function of a positive agenda. Or was this just to pretend?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u17	What about the subject, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u18	Mr President, we know that you have set up a working group for the preparation of a national plan against precariousness, of which Mr José Soeiro, the Secretary of State for Employment, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Mr Rui Riso. Have there been any agreements? Is there a plan yet? And now they have included the CFP in that agreement or not? With regard to the concrete proposals, the Left Block recalls, and well, that the time frame results in a change to the 2009 Labour Code, i.e. the same minister who rules today with the support of the Left Block and now the CFP. Does this mean that the Left Block already has the PS agreement to change this subject without going to social consultation, despite the good results on unemployment? Do you think the Left Block should prohibit young people looking for the first and long-term unemployed? It is good to remember that the good results in employment result from the legislation that is in force today and that shows that the criticism that you and your partners on the side have made, saying that these labour laws are going to increase unemployment, was wrong. So, honourable Member, knowing today that it was wrong with regard to unemployment, it was good for you to clarify what you intend to do with the bills you presented. Do you have the PS agreement? Are you going to be able to carry them out or not? It is that unless the only conclusion we can draw is that this debate does not go through a stage of the Left Block designed to mislead workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u19	And the CDS has nothing to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u20	... pretending they press the PS, giving the idea that they're going somewhere, when, in fact, they're not going anywhere, because they're still in the working group without concluding anything. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u21	For clarifications, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u22	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, allow me to start by telling you that Mr. Members, once again, come to this plenary in a pure exercise of demagogy and populism, saying that they are concerned about the precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u23	What a conversation! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u24	But you are not worried about the precariousness, and I will explain it to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u25	Then explain it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u26	The gentlemen. Members, together with the Government and the PS, excluding your coalition friends, the CFP, have made a working group to prepare a national plan to combat precariousness and this working group, which you mentioned, and of which you have been an independent expert, have drawn up a report which was or is to be submitted to social consultation. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever this is and whether this is a suggestion, Mr President. Members say they won't wait for the bosses' agreement. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not throw sand for the eyes of the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u28	...because your concern is to mark ground during the upcoming elections. Question: Is social dialogue the voice of the bosses? What about the unions?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u30	Is social dialogue not also composed of representatives of workers, trade unions? So, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to take this into account! The gentlemen. Members are here to say that they are concerned about the workers, they are here to say that they are concerned about combating precariousness, but in fact they have turned their backs on the workers, because they don't even want to hear them. This is reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u32	That's exactly what you guys do here. The gentlemen. Members, saying that social consultation is the voice of the bosses, they are deceiving the Portuguese, saying that the unions are not there, that they are not properly represented there.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u34	And what are you guys doing? Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, it was humbly to recognize that if you want to demarcate a government that you have chosen, a government solution that you have chosen and supported, but that you have no solution, which pushes the problems and solutions with the belly, because this government that you have chosen is not able to present a solution, it is not able to present an idea of how it will, in fact, combat precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u36	It's serious what you guys are doing. Members are doing this because they are putting aside an essential instrument, which is social dialogue, which is fundamental to ensuring peace and social cohesion. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, why is this so important? Because there are aspects that we need to take into account when we propose changes to labour legislation. Of course, we must bear in mind that, on the one hand, we need to guarantee the competitiveness of companies, because it is with competitive companies that we will ensure that jobs are generated, and on the other hand, stable employment, decent employment. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that this has been a mark of this party. Indeed, the concern about decent work does not involve ideologies, the concern about decent work involves us all, but it must also be done with the proper attention that the matter deserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u38	Even after that, I would like to say to Mr José Soeiro that it was important that Mr. Soeiro. Members — and I wonder if they are willing to do so — met with the Government in a concerted way, so as to ensure that these matters go through social dialogue, because better than anyone else social dialogue will be able to, together with employers and workers, find the most effective solutions, the most just solutions to effectively ensure decent work. That is what we should be concerned about and should not be the actual elections that should move this kind of attitude and the marking of these power debates. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u39	To reply, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u40	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, I must say that I appreciated your statement. The honourable Member asked two questions: how will the Left Block vote the projects? According to your defense, will you vote in favour of the PCP projects? I'm sure you will! Will the Left Block projects be voted on? Of course I do! If we present the draft laws it is for them to be voted on, and they will certainly be voted on respecting the deadlines of the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u41	It will only be in the next legislative session!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u42	Apart from this legislative clarification, which is extraordinary, Mr President — I would like to inform you about this — is that this legislative agenda is not on the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, it is on a somewhat more substantial issue, which is the fight against precariousness and injustice, on the standards of perpetuation of precariousness, on the numbness of workers that the CDS and the PSD included in the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u43	in this case, it was the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u44	And on the substance, once again, you said nothing. I did not expect the CDS to oppose the rules which the CDS itself approved, but, honourable Member, the discussion we are having here today is whether it is acceptable for a young person, just because he is young, or a unemployed person, only because he is unemployed long-term, to have long-term contracts, even for permanent functions, or that a company that employs up to 750 workers can have everyone with long-term contracts, even for permanent functions. That, from our point of view, is unacceptable and must end. As it is unacceptable to give employers the possibility of unilaterally imposing flexible working hours that require workers to work overtime without any compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u45	You're not answering the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u46	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, it is true that this majority has taken some steps in the fight against precariousness, particularly in the Public Administration. We approved, two weeks ago, amendments to the law of the special action on the recognition of the existence of the employment contract, but, Mrs. Member, I think the PSD should have some embarrassment...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u47	You don't have, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u48	... to learn here about job creation and the fight against precariousness. Madam Member, do you want to compare job creation during the austerity policy period with job creation during the recovery period?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u49	We can compare!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u50	Madam Member, I think the results are in sight and the difference is quite explicit. The honourable Member was admired because the Left Block would not be waiting for the agreement of the employers to approve measures to combat precariousness. Did you really admire that? Look, Mrs. Member, then it's because you know the Left Block wrong. Certainly, the measures to combat precariousness must respond to the interest of the majority of the country living in their work and we know that for this it is necessary to deal with established interests and that many of these interests result from condemnable employer practices that were supported by labour legislation that the PSD and the CDS did. Our amendment to labour legislation does not respond to the particular interests of employers. It responds to the interest of the majority, of those who live in their work and of those who have the right to be respected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u51	Mrs Deputy, like the CDS, repeated a general talk about the majority, but on this subject nothing said. I doubt, from your intervention, if you have even read the projects that we bring the debate here today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u52	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, to present the drafts of lein. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( PCP ), 187 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Revokes the application to public servants of the adaptability and hour bank mechanisms by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ( CFP ) and 211 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revok individual adaptability mechanisms and the individual hourly bank, with effect from 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the control and domain of the organization of working time, the provision on life and the longing for the unlimited availability of workers is in the DNA of the patronage. The organization of hours based on immediate profit and not respect for family, professional and personal life, for rest times and leisure was always an objective and practice of patronage. in working relationships, the employer's will to control and unschedule working hours served, and always serves to aggravate exploitation and increase its profits. in fact, the increase in working hours of a large majority always corresponded to the increase in profit of a minority. The strategy has always been to sacrifice the personal and family life of millions of workers to increase the profits of half a dozen economic groups. Past more than 131 years of the first 1. the May one, the struggle for the fixing of 8 hours of work and the reduction of working hours is an immense current. Set 8 hours of work: this was the claim that was the basis of the creation of a new working day that constituted the historical framework of a more just society. But the capital never accepted this civilizational advance cheaply and created bold tools to remove the law: it transformed the whole normal working time into effective working time; it eliminated pauses; it imposed various flexibilitys; and it increased the intensity and the working rhythms. Subsequent governments, increasingly committed to the privilege of capital rather than to the rights of workers, attacked working times because they knew that this was the right way to increase the time and reduce the wage, facilitating the exploitation and accumulation of profit, of the so-called "competition gains", focusing only on wage costs. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the offer to employers and to enshrine in the Labour Code in 2009 and 2012 of the hourly, group and individual banks, of the adaptations and concentrated schedules clearly confirm to whom the changes to labour legislation promoted by successive governments have served. Over the past few years, in our country today, about 75% of workers are affected by the adaptability of hours, the abuse of shiftwork and nightwork, the generalization of disrespect and the extension of hours, with profound negative consequences. See the example of Lisnave Yards in Setúbal. Workers are obliged to provide 1800 hours of effective work, divided into two semesters. of these 1800 hours, 270 hours are provided from Monday to Saturday, including holidays, and can go up to 15 days of work on weekly rest day, supplemental or holiday. Of course, without any increase in remuneration. Consider the example of the Continent and the shops of Pingo Doce, where the chiefs exerted direct pressure on the workers so that they would accept the hourly banks. Consider the example of Continent Maia Shopping, where most workers had signed the bank's refusal document. The head of human resources of this group responsible for the North of the country was twice at the store, called the workers to a meeting room and, between threats and blackmails, tried to accept the hour bank. See the example of Key Plastics in New Sales, where the company's administration has travelled several times to the New Sales Industrial Park to pressure the temporary workers who have at their service to accept the hour bank, in a real co-operation action on the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u55	Workers know that this is not the way and have repeatedly defended the end of the revocation of hourly banks. The result has been obvious: more time, less pay and serious damage to the family life and staff of workers. Exactly to answer this question, the CFP today brings objective proposals: revocation of individual and group hourly banks, because, Mrs. Members, if it is true that the unilateral imposition of the working time is unacceptable, it is no less serious than that if 75% of the workers accept the time, that alone means enlargement to all workers, even those who do not accept it. [[PCP Applause]] For this reason, we also propose the repeal of the adaptability and mechanisms that exist to increase the working time. We also propose that the proposal of the former Government, PSD and CDS under the General Law on Public Works should be extended to the workers of the Public Administration. We propose — no less important — that, of any change resulting from this amendment, workers do not have any loss of their remuneration or any adverse change in working conditions, either in the private sector or in the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is unacceptable to put scientific and technological advances at the service of the country's growth and development. It is unacceptable to place scientific and technological advances at the service of reducing working hours and penocity. It is unacceptable to put science and technology at the service of not the profits of a minority, but the living conditions of most workers and the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u59	It is unacceptable to transform technological achievements into social achievements. The CFP does not give up this fight, it calls all to this discussion because we know that workers do not give up either. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u60	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has not heard of any request for clarification. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have a number of proposals on two important matters in terms of work. On the one hand, we have the system of the hourly bank and individual adaptability and, on the other hand, the legal regime of the term contract. What results from the projects under discussion, or what the authors of the projects propose to us, is to eliminate the scheme of the individual hourly bank and to change the legal regime of the term contract. Starting with the hourly bank, in fact, we have been watching over time an effort by several governments to multiply the mechanisms for deregulation of working time, always with serious damage to those who work. This was the case in 2003, so it was with the 2009 Labour Code, and so it was with the previous Government. In fact, the former Government has made a great effort — which, in fact, did not hide — to reduce the cost of work, which has done, in particular, by eliminating holidays, eliminating holidays and eliminating compensatory rest by providing additional work. But, as if not enough, the PSD/CDS government has still invented the individual hourly bank, i.e., it has expanded to the mobility of the hourly bank, provided for by the collective regulatory instrument, the individual hourly bank. From that point on, the hours bank scheme has become possible by sufficient agreement between employer and worker, with tacit acceptance by the worker if it does not object in writing. It was another way of the PSD and the CDS to the bosses, a great way that, in fact, required the worker to object in writing not to accept the hourly bank. But in a context marked, above all, by a strong and visible imbalance between the parties in the labour relationship, talking about the freedom of the parties is pure fiction, because as we know, in this case, the freedom of the parties is just a way to hide what is really at stake. And what is at stake is not the freedom of the parties, but rather an imposition of employers, an imposition of employers. It is an order and that is how it should be understood in this case when we talk about the freedom of the parties. However, we all know the consequences, for those who work, of the deregulation of working time, particularly with regard to seeking reconciliation of professional life with family life, a circumstance which penalises, firstly, women, and, secondly, all studies on this subject. The Greens therefore accompany the authors of the projects that intend to eliminate the schemes of the individual hourly bank. With regard to term contracts, the Greens reaffirm their position on the matter, which is, in fact, very clear: it is necessary to remove the lie from labour relations. The term contracts must once again have an exceptional nature and what we have been watching — and that it is necessary to prevent — is that the exception becomes a rule. That's where we walk, or that's where we walk, if we don't take action. In fact, it is enough to look at the numbers to see the true invasion of contracts in our country, which have already been well mentioned here by Mr José Soeiro. This is a reality that reaches, above all, young people, who are thus prevented from making life projects and programming their future, because non-permanent links cause higher levels of instability and job insecurity. It should also be noted that the term contracts are one of the visible aspects of precariousness, which took account of our working reality, precariousness which it is necessary to counter and combat decisively, as also results from the joint position established by the Greens Ecological Party with the Socialist Party. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the political options based on low wages and on dutyless work, which marked the former Government, PSD / CDS, as well as the various legislative amendments in the field of labour were decisive factors for the generalization of labour insecurity in our country, for the degradation of working conditions and for the weakening of labour rights. In this respect, it is always appropriate to remember that, when we talk about working precariousness, we are talking about working relations outside the law, dealing with the rights of those who work, violating fundamental rights, degradation of working conditions and, even more, increasing levels of exploitation. These are the facts. The numbers are even more cruel! Therefore, in this matter too, the Greens accompany the authors of the bills under discussion, not only because it is intended to restore some justice, but also because it is important to remove falsehood and lies in labor relations. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u62	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. For an intervention, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u63	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies: The Left Block has positively allocated for today the debate on the arrangements of the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability, through Bill No. 533 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), and on the amendment to the legal regime applicable to the term of contract, implementing the recommendations of the Working Group for the preparation of a National Plan for Combating Poverty, through the presentation of Bill No 534 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). As it could not fail to be, the PCP, in order not to allow itself to occupy its political space or lose its voters, immediately presented not two, but three bills of law on the same subject... [[PCP protests.]] ... and its leader has hastened to publicly remember that they have scheduled, for the next 12th of June, two bills of law on precariousness and temporary work, extending it to the private sector, and threatening the PS that, if there are no answers to these problems, will increase disappointment, will increase discontent, will increase the protest. Either the Left Block or the PCP have as their sole objective to revoke, eliminate. In other words, walking back and forth, like the «Old Restel », which was solely aimed at trying to prevent progress, development and innovation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u64	The progress of the PSD? Oh, my God! Great progress! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u65	We are therefore faced with a debate between those who, at all costs, want to step back, get stuck in the past, in immobilism, and those who are committed to innovating and building the future. The PSD, which had to face with courage and determination the enormous burden of fulfilling the Memorandum of Understanding concluded by the PS Government and avoiding, at all costs, a new rescue, made several changes to labour law, in accordance with the social partners —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u66	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u67	... that it is a living witness the Commitment for Growth, Competitiveness and Employment, held in January 2012 —, with the exception of the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), which, in 43 years of democracy, never signed a single agreement for social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u68	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u69	in this commitment, it can read: ‘(...) the Parties agree to adopt the following measures: establish the possibility of the hourly bank scheme to be implemented by agreement between the employer and the worker, admitting the increase of up to two hours a day to the normal working period, with the limit of fifty hours a week and one hundred and fifty hours a year; To establish the group hourly bank, in terms similar to the system established for group adaptability, where a majority of 60 % or 75 % of workers are covered by the time-bank scheme established by a collective regulatory instrument or by agreement of the parties respectively (...) ». It is well demonstrated here that in this context the reform of the Labour Code, carried out by the Government of the PSD and the CDS, was carried out in strict agreement with the representatives of workers and employers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u70	The results achieved with this reform are evident, both in terms of the reduction in the number of unemployed workers and in terms of the creation of new jobs, which has taken place since 2014. An excellent heritage that was left by the former Government and that the present and its partners could reap the good fruit, but they continue to fail. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u71	You should dedicate yourself to agriculture!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u72	The PSD feels very proud and is pleased to have left the Portuguese reforms that have allowed them to find employment since 2014 and avoid falling into unemployment. But we are always available to improve, to innovate, to ensure a true balance between the necessary protection of workers' rights and the need of companies to become more competitive, to innovate and thus ensure the valorisation of their workers and their jobs. That is why, unlike the parties of the extreme left, who just want to revoke and return, and the Socialist Party, who, on the one hand, are committed to the parties of the verb « to revoke» and « to return back», and on the other hand, as it is in the government, does not want and cannot abdicate the good results that it is reaping at the level of unemployment and employment, the PSD, due to the respect that Portuguese deserve, does not contribute to this blatant game. The Left Block and the PCP want to politically strangle the Socialist Party, your coalition friend? They strangle at ease, but do not politically strangle the country and much less the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] On the contrary, the Social Democratic Party has eyes in the near future and, with ambition, is actually concerned about discussing and finding the best solutions to the need to prepare the country — workers and businesses — for the inevitable technological development, based on information technologies, digitalization, automation and robotics; for the new working arrangements, which diverge from the typical working relationship, including atypical forms of employment or self-employment; to ensure that innovation, development and economic growth ensure greater distribution of wealth and combat poverty; to ensure that the qualification instruments are built to address technological unemployment and that, in the shortest time, the unemployed get adequate professional retraining and return to the labour market. These and many other matters concern us! We do not ignore that precariousness is a serious problem that must be debated and that solutions should be found in the context of social consultation, taking into account the modernisation of working relations, solutions, which will enable us to reconcile the need for growth in the external competitiveness of our companies with the aim of ensuring decent working conditions. What we don't want is to be a late country, controlled by the state and a privileged elite from which he takes over and with a people without rights and without voice. What we want is to build a developed country, which bets on the innovation and well-being of Portuguese, with competitive companies and workers made and with protected rights. For this, it is necessary to innovate and not to retreat.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u74	This requires improvement and not revocation. To that end, we need to look forward and build the future, based on the reforms carried out — which have produced good results — and not go back to the past, which has led us to disaster, humiliation and enormous sacrifices and deprivation. As much as they try, the waters of the river do not run back, they always run forward, because there is the future that we want to build, with humility, rigour, spirit of commitment, innovation and social justice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u75	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Bexiga.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is very significant that in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic the first of the rights provided for in the Chapter of Workers' Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees is the right to safety at work. Article 53. that of the Constitution is very clear, by affirming that safety in employment is guaranteed to workers. This right is a direct expression of the right to work as provided for in Article 58. that of our Basic Law, and that it consubstances a true status of the lives of workers. in the context of the protection of these constitutional standards, all situations that reflect unfair and unjustified models of precarious work relationship are also covered. But our Constitution is not limited to defending the right to work. It consecrates and defends a work with decent conditions, either of remuneration, according to its quantity, nature and quality, either in the organization of work in socially dignified conditions, in order to enable the personal realization of the worker, as well as the defense of the right to rest, leisure, weekly rest and holidays. This labour constitution is one of the main achievements of the April Revolution, which understood to enshrine the value of work as one of the essential goods of the human person. And it is understood that this is the case; the relationship of work is no contractual relationship whatsoever, it is at stake the person himself, in his body, in his availability, in his autonomy and freedom, is the status of life and personal realization of the worker in question. The Constitution therefore affirms in the Portuguese legal order the value 'work' as a social right, reinforced by the fundamental principle of social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The labour market cannot therefore be a market like any other economic good, in which the management and profit perspective prevails essentially. We know that this was not the perspective of the PSD/CDS government. The coverage of the Memorandum of Understanding with the troika and creating objectives for improving labour law, the former Government implemented surgical changes in the labour law in which the real objective was to achieve only gains in productivity at the cost of reducing the value of work and the rights of workers. And, therefore, the PSD/CDS government has advanced with measures that have mixed the value of work, introducing more precariousness in working relationships, reducing wages and increasing effective working periods without their wage consideration. The results of these policies are now known to everyone, for the destructive impact they had on Portuguese society: more unemployment; more poverty;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u77	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u78	... less qualifications;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u79	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u80	...more emigration; more underdevelopment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A country with no trust, a Cabish country, discredited and fragile. Luckily, these devil times are coming! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u81	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u82	This Government, with the support of the parliamentary majority that supports it, has given priority to job creation objectives, combating precariousness in the private sector and in the public sector, valuing work and workers' rights, combating forced labour, strengthening active employment policies and relaunching social dialogue and collective bargaining. Is PS against work insecurity? No doubt! this is one of the priority objectives of the government in the area of labour policy. Is the PS against the mechanisms of deregulation of working hours that disturb the personal and family life of the worker? It is certainly arguing that the individual hourly bank is a dossier with a high potential for disrupting the quality of life of the worker and, as such, must be removed and that the group hourly bank and by collective regulation should be properly regulated, safeguarding workers' rights. The PS is committed to supporting a consistent agenda for changing labour relations, framed by a strong commitment to resume the dynamism of social dialogue at all levels, from social dialogue to collective bargaining, in contrast to marginalization and disrespect that characterized the last few years. in the framework of the Tripartite Commitment for a Medium-term Concertation Agreement, concluded in January 2016 in the Economic and Social Council, the debate between the Government and the social partners on the amendment of labour law in an integrated and comprehensive manner covered all matters which integrate the fulfilment of the Social Concertation Agreement signed in January 2016. Word given, word honored! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u83	I know you are. Members of the PSD and the CDS do not like to listen, but I will insist: given word, honored word! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u84	That's not with us, it's with your coalition partners!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u85	The PS will fulfil the two commitments made with the social partners and in accordance with the expected timetable: it will move forward with the necessary adjustments to labour legislation to ensure balanced labour relations and ensure conditions of productivity and competitiveness essential to Portugal's growth and will fulfil the commitment to build these adjustments within social consultation. The PS does not want again to devalue and marginalise the social partners who have taken a fundamental role in the exit of the economic and social crisis in which we lived and in the consolidation of the new environment of trust and social peace that makes Portugal today a successful country. however, we reject partial amendments to the Labour Code and reject the logic of introducing changes avoidable to labour legislation. We want to ensure the stability of labour laws, giving predictability to actors involved in the labour market and making work more adaptable to both the needs of workers and businesses, giving prevalence to solutions resulting from collective bargaining. We affirm here a certainty: the PS will always defend a right of work as a right to guarantee decent and sustainable employment and which contributes to the consolidation of a more developed, fairer and more supportive country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u86	Mr Ricardo Bexiga, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. I would like to ask the honourable Member with an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u87	I shall reply to groups of two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u88	Of course, Mr. Deputies. You then have the floor, first of all, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u89	Mr President, Mr Bexiga, for his speech, and for any attentive viewer, logic requires the following conclusion: the Socialist Party will vote in favour of all the projects currently under discussion, for three very simple reasons. First of all—and also spoke of the word given, honest word—we mentioned again, as in the initial intervention, the Socialist Party's Government Programme, with regard to the hourly bank: "Repeat the possibility(...) of the existence of an individual hourly bank by mere ‘agreement’ between the employer and the worker(...)” in a logic of need to rebalance labour law. This is not only in the Government Programme but also in statements by members of the Socialist Party made last month with regard to labour legislation and needs that have been identified, including after the analysis of the Green Paper and the data provided by the Green Paper on labour relations and the type of work created in Portugal. So this is the first reason, that is, there has to be some consequence. The second reason also has to do with the very diagnosis of precariousness, which leads us, as I said, to the quality of the job created. And, for example, as far as term contracts are concerned, today 67, 5 % of young people's contracts up to 24 years are overdue. Knowing that there is an improvement and progress in employment numbers, it is also important to look at the quality of employment that is created — it seems to me to be a common diagnosis, particularly in the context of young people. It has already been said here that it is not because of being young that the only job opportunities that exist are precarious. Obviously, innovation is needed, but innovation does not have to mean precariousness in life or lack of hope for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u91	Therefore, this is another reason why, according to your intervention, you will also have to vote in favour of all the projects presented today. Thirdly, on the economic growth scenarios that already exist, on positive statistical data on employment, it is all very positive, but, Mr President, none of this will be decisive or even will have strength if people do not feel an improvement in their living conditions, in particular their working conditions. So in order to continue the path of reinstatement of income, growth of the economy, it is important to look at the living conditions and working conditions of people in our country. And therefore, as I started, and taking up the initial part of its intervention, in which it has listed the rights that our Constitution confers on us, and well, to work in Portugal, and knowing that, in recent years, in particular, they have been strongly attacked, we are here having a debate that has to do with, in part, what is written in the Government Programme, that is, the significant advances in the lives of those who work. It is necessary to respond to this urgency and also to comply with the written word and the word given in the Government Programme, as it is necessary to fulfil the expectations created in the workers and not to be hostage to the patronage. Is the Socialist Party available, or not, to fulfill that same word? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u92	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u93	Mr President, Mr Bexiga, said in the gallery « the word given, the word honored», but, Mr, the problem is when the word is given to several people, saying different things. [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u94	It was therefore important for the honourable Member to clarify which of the words is to be honored. It is that the Socialist Party has set up a working group with the Left Block to review the labour law. He gave the floor to the Left Block and wrote it in the Government Programme. And I understand Mrs Isabel Pires's question to the honourable Member, i.e. whether she will vote in favour of the Bloc proposals, which we know cannot be voted on, but everything is fine... However, then the Socialist Party, following the lead of the reduction in TSU due to the increase in the minimum wage, apparently, had negotiations with the employers and UGT, saying that it would not interfere in labour legislation—only there for 2018—and that it would never move without the agreement in social consultation. And it seems that Mr. Prime Minister, on February 25, went to a conference by the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) to say that "we have been going on for years...", and I am quoting, "...reviewing labour law. It is perhaps a good time to stabilize it.' Sir, how are you going to do this? Which of the words will you honor? Will you honor the word you gave to the Block or will you honor the word you gave to social partners — trade unions and employers — that you will not change this legislation without going to social consultation? Oh, my God! Mr President, it is not enough to proclaim « the word given, the word honest! , we want to see what the acts are and how the PS will, excuse the expression, « unfoot this boot ». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u95	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u96	Mr President, I would begin with this last speech by Mr Carlos Monteiro to tell you that the PS, unlike the CDS, does not lead to agreements that are concluded in social consultation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Don't lead!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u97	Don't fall for agreements! Correct what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u98	on the contrary, the PS actually addresses the commitments made with the social partners. But I would like to remind you that, in social consultation, we do not only have representatives of workers and employers' representatives, but in fact we have all representatives of Portuguese civil society who will have the opportunity to speak on the proposals that the Government will, in due course, present in the context of the commitments made with these social partners. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, in fact, I would also like to say to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block that the PS would like to stress the following: there is convergence between what the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group advocates and the solutions advocated in the diplomas it presented today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u99	But are you going to vote in favour or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u100	However, we no longer share two fundamental issues: on the one hand, the timing of the initiative,... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u101	...because, as you know, there was a commitment made by the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u102	There goes the word again! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u103	... in the sense that, in the field of labour review, we would wait for negotiations within the framework of social consultation;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u104	But it's in the government program! It's surgical!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u105	It's not time! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u106	...and, on the other hand, the Left Block initiative... [[CDS-PP protests.]] You want to help me with the answer? Oh, my God! Would you like to answer Mrs. Deputy? If Mr António Carlos Monteiro wishes, he may reply by the PS to Mrs Deputy. Do you want to do it? Thank you very much. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u107	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u108	As I was saying, in addition to the timing of the initiative, there is another fundamental element, which is to be a mere partial intervention, which has contributed to what, in recent years, labour law in Portugal has suffered, i.e., surgical interventions which, thinking they solve topical problems, have ultimately created global problems, which cannot be seen in their bias. It is clear that we have to look at both the issues of precariousness and the regulation of working hours and, above all, the issue of hourly banks, in situations that do not safeguard workers' rights, which should be extraordinary from what is unfortunately perverted by the economic fabric. But we have no doubt that there are situations in which the work by contract is justified. In fact, it is noted that this model of contract is not used in an ordinary manner but in an extraordinary way, for which it was built. The hourly bank has made an essential contribution to increasing the competitiveness of Portuguese companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. The problem is not the existence of the hour bank. We are against the individual hourly bank, but we are not against the group hourly bank, within the framework of collective bargaining, because we know that if workers and businesses, from the point of view of meeting will, build good solutions, are solutions that interest workers and businesses and, above all, the development of the country and the growth of the Portuguese economy. This is our main objective: to create conditions for the workers' interests to be cared for and, at the same time, for the competitiveness and growth of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u109	Before entering the second group of requests for clarification, the Bureau would like to recall that elections are taking place until 17 p.m. in Sala D. Maria, to a Member Representative of the Assembly of the Republic in the Council for the Monitoring of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic ( CFSIRP ). You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Susana Lamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u110	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Bexiga, the PSD considers combating work insecurity a matter of great importance. We are talking about the lives of many Portuguese and, in particular, of younger Portuguese. But for this debate to be serious, it is necessary to clarify and clarify the Portuguese on the claims of this management. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the interventions before me, it is clear that the objective of the Left Block, bringing tow the PCP, is once again to revoke, reverse, regress, in a total disregard for the commitments reached in the context of social consultation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u112	...in total contempt by the social partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u113	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u114	It's in the government program!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u115	And the social partners, Mr Deputies, are also the workers, the unions, who claim so much to defend. The PSD has, and always has, a different position. For the PSD it is in dialogue with the social partners that a better resolution is achieved for labour issues, it is in dialogue with the workers and with the employers who achieve greater pacification of labour relations. Any change or improvement of labour legislation should not be made outside the dialogue with those who are better aware of the conditions and needs of the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u117	Dialogue with the bosses, that's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u118	It must not, nor can it, be done on the sidelines of workers and employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u120	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections are approaching, and then we see the extreme-left parties...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u121	Do not call us extreme-left, Madam Member, but we say that you are of extreme-right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u122	... concerned about running on their own, trying to get rid of a government that, over and over, say support. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and the PCP, your lead is the same as that of the Socialist Party, your path is the same, your responsibility is the same as that of the supportive government. Looking now at the Socialist Party's bench, question: in the face of this permanent struggle by your coalition partners to mark the ground, how will the Socialist Party operate? It's because the Portuguese want to know, and they have the right to know. Minister Vieira da Silva believes that it has no marked date for the adoption of the measures to combat the precariousness contained in the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u123	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u124	PSD is ahead!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u125	When he presented the Green Paper on Labour Relations, he pointed out that he wanted to discuss in social consultation. The same Minister Vieira da Silva said that time would be what would be said by the negotiations for a social agreement. So, ladies. Members of the Socialist Party, how do you feel about these statements and initiatives now presented by your coalition partners? How do they deal with these « coalition friends », who say they are with you, who say they support you but who do not really respect you? How can they deal with those who do not respect social dialogue, who do not respect the government that say they support, who do not respect the government that is negotiating with the social partners? [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] Aren't you going to approve the initiatives? So, ladies and gentlemen, how does the word 'honest word' remain?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u127	Mrs. Members, we are faced with initiatives now emerging in this permanent struggle between the Left Block and the PCP in marking ground,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u128	Slaughtered fish again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u129	...to seek their political space, because the elections are at the door. in the PSD we know, and the PS also knows, that approving initiatives without consensus, without due weighting and with the only concern to reverse does not contribute to the fight against precariousness, does not contribute to job creation, does not contribute to better employment. We cannot allow your power partners to revoke labour legislation that is contributing to increasing employment and reducing unemployment. Innovate, improve, but just demagogy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u130	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u131	Mr President, Mr Bexiga, I would like to say that this debate makes two things very clear: firstly, workers, those who may be more distracted, cannot count on you to reverse any measure that means improving their living and working conditions. Therefore, the workers who thought that there was some repentance on the part of the PSD and the CDS were disbanded because there was no such thing. The path of PSD and CDS is poverty, degradation of rights, emigration, unemployment and precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u132	Exactly! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u133	But on the part of the PS, Mr Ricardo Bexiga, it is also important to say here that this debate is particularly clear. It's just, if the PSD deputy didn't even work to realize that the date of the bill has more than one year... [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] ... and that it has undergone successive changes in the specialty, and the CFP submits proposals for the revocation of hourly banks and adaptability. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] But this does not make us strange, because when, in 2009 and 2012, at the focus of discussion in the specialty, the PCP proposed what it proposes today, in 2017, the PSD did zero. He opened his mouth to justify zero, because he had no argument to justify the worsening of the holding. Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, as I said here, we have always known that, with the PSD and the CDS, one cannot count to value the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u134	And the PS can't count either!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u135	But there is a very important question and it matters to be clarified: the CFP will subject its projects to discussion and vote on Friday... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u136	...and therefore there is an opportunity to correct a serious injustice. More importantly, Mr President, the urgency of this vote is not a matter of political strategy. What we are discussing here—beyond the aberrations that the PSD and the CDS can say—is people's lives. We are discussing the lives of the workers of the Pink Doce, Model and Key Plastics, who, since 2013 after the offer of PSD and CDS, have their life completely disorganized, have no time for accompanying children, have less pay and have more hours of work. So the resolution of these problems takes time and the workers need it as bread for the mouth. That is why, on our part, it is unacceptable to subject such measures to the veto of the patronage in social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u137	Make a motion of censure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u138	Does social dialogue have a role? It's obviously there. It is not new that social consultation should be heard. It must, however, not prevent the Assembly of the Republic from taking measures to improve the living conditions of workers. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] That is why, on our part, this question is very clear: should social dialogue be heard? You must. Should the Assembly of the Republic contribute and have an obligation to contribute to improving the living conditions of workers? Yeah. To keep the word given and to fulfill the honest word requires moving from word to practice and Friday, by the PCP, we have an opportunity for this to happen. Mr President, unlike the friends that the PSD and the CDS have talked about here, the commitment of the CFP is for the workers and the people. And it is in this commitment that we will continue to intervene, because what we are living today in the shops of the Pingo Doce, in the shops of the Continent, in terms of blackmail, harassment, intimidation and persecution is unacceptable and in the 21st century all the Members present in this Chamber should be ashamed. For this reason, on the side of the CFP, we will continue to beat ourselves for this, by revoking the hour bank, whether individual or group. Mr President, I gave you the examples here: the head of Sonae do Norte's human resources department went directly to a shop to intimidate workers so that they would accept the hourly bank. Where is the dialogue here? Do you sit in blackmail and intimidation? He's not! And the workers were subject to changes in working hours. Social dialogue, for employers and for economic groups, is called harassment, blackmail and intimidation and the CFP cannot lead to this reality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u139	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u140	Mr President, I was really surprised at the fact that the PSD Member Susana Lamas began her speech by referring to the younger Portuguese. In fact, it was the younger Portuguese who suffered in the skin all that the PSD/CDS-PP government applied in terms of labour legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u141	And everything you've done?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u142	Ask the thousands of young people who had to emigrate, leave the country,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... due to the lack of conditions to remain in Portugal, which will be, perhaps the people indicated to respond to the concerns presented here by the honourable Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I was also amazed at the constant references made by the PSD Parliamentary Group at the time of the actual elections. The PS is not afraid of the actual elections. What we understand is that the debate on big ideas and major political projects must be done in this Parliament. And when we are today discussing the projects presented by the Left Block and the PCP, what we are doing is discussing the divergent ideas, the alternative projects for solving the Portuguese problem. But I wanted to make the following very clear: this government, supported by the Socialist Party and the parliamentary majority that supports it, is the first government that, in Portugal, fights decisively against job insecurity, both in the private sector and in the public sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, we have already started a deep work on assessing situations of false precariousness in the public sector, in order to finally give these thousands of workers the right to decent work, careers and a future, from a professional point of view, that fulfils their expectations. It was also the Government of the Socialist Party that went forward with very decisive measures with regard to the revaloration of the value of work. I would remind you, for example, of the increase in national minimum wage, the fight against forced labour, the strengthening of active employment policies —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u143	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u144	... that your Government has also understood, without any grounds, to dismantle — the strengthening of collective bargaining and the issue of protection in the event of unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u145	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u146	I do not want to have any doubts: the PS will defend, within its core duties with Portuguese people who live in precarious situations or situations of unfair working relationships, that the term contract regime becomes a truly exceptional model of contract and that, in relation to the hour bank, the individual hour bank is abolished, the collective hour bank and the group hour bank are regulated in order to safeguard workers' rights. But obviously we do not want to make these changes in an isolated perspective,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u147	Is it going further? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u148	...in a second perspective which, on the one hand, are the employers and, on the other hand, are the workers. We believe — and the last two years give us reason — that consensus, commitment, and build together a more developed society and a stronger and growing economy. Our economic and social fabric is much more like what has been characterized by Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u149	Socialists are the great culprits!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u150	Most of our economic fabric, as you know, is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, where entrepreneurs are daily at work and in the struggle to strengthen the sustainability of economic units based on the economy of the territories and the economy of this country. We are absolutely convinced that by the end of the year, in the context of the compromise that has been taken up in the Social Consultation Council, we will, together with the social partners, achieve better solutions to the problems that the honourable Member raises and to the issues that are also raised in the bills of the Left Block and that we will achieve, as we have so far achieved, growth, stability, security and, above all, great confidence in the future of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u151	Mrs. Members, before we proceed, I ask the Secretary, Mrs Emília Santos, to announce some initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 542 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Create greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to sickness or occupational accident ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 543 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a tax incentive for the use of the bicycle ( The Greens ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 544 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Eighty amendments to the Nationality Act, adopted by Law No. 31 / 87 of 3 October, amended by Law No. 25 / 94 of 19 August, by Decree-Law No. 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December, and by Organic Laws No. 1 / 2004 of 15 January, 2 / 2006 of 17 April, 1 / 2013 of 29 July, 8 / 2015 of 22 June, and 9 / 2015 of 29 July ( PS ). They also entered, and were admitted, the draft resolutions 833 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, ensuring the gender impact assessment in the legislative procedure ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 914 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — On the preparation of the national education programme for sustainability ( The Greens ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u153	We shall then continue the debate, with the speech of Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here discussing a set of initiatives, some of them, the Left Block and others of the PCP, by means of a positive agenda of the Left Block. Basically, the terms of term contracts are concerned, which are in the law under the wording given in 2009 by the Minister Vieira da Silva, the adaptability of schedules, the initiative of the same Government, and the issue of the individual hourly bank. In our view, three very clear political issues are at stake: the first has to do with the consistency and credibility of the proposing parties, the extreme left, the Left Block and the CFP; the second has to do with the credibility and consistency of the Socialist Party and the Government; and the third has to do with the credibility and consistency of the social dialogue and the government in this process. So let's go to the first point: the consistency of the Left Block and the PCP. It is true that the subjects that bring us here correspond to what they have always said, what they have always proposed. But the truth is that, among what they have always said in the past and today, there is a fact of reality that we cannot turn our faces to, and this fact of reality is that we realize that legislative changes in labour are producing good fruit, because unemployment and job creation are declining. It is not just this or that party, this or that union, this or that employer that says it, that are the foreign independent entities that say that these subjects in particular, which we are discussing today, go in the right direction and that this is the right direction if we want to affirm a competitive labour market. In view of this reality, the Left Block and the PCP had one, of two options: either they gave the lie for not saying and recognized that they had ultimately been wrong and that reality had shown them to be wrong; or, then, they saved their face and despised reality, not wanting to consider the interests of workers and the labour market. It is clear today, in the eyes of the Portuguese, that, between protecting the interests of workers, the interest and dynamism of the labour market and their face and their own partisan interests, the Left Block and the CFP do not hesitate to disregard the interests of workers and the labour market and the dynamism of that same market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u155	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u156	That's all they don't care about, because what they're interested in is just positioning themselves and looking for consistency, even though inconsistent and nothing credible.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u157	Inconsistent consistency? Oh, my God! That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u158	But these proposals also have the problem of confronting the Socialist Party with their own consistency and credibility. in fact, most of the proposals in question here are aimed at changing measures that have been introduced into the labour system by the Government of the Socialist Party, and this has not happened because they have changed people. The Government could be of the Socialist Party and the Minister to be another. Don't! It was the same Minister Vieira da Silva who introduced the amendments in 2009, which are now being considered to be changing. This gives us the credibility, the consistency of this Socialist Party, which, depending on the circumstances, defends one thing and its opposite. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u159	This is basically a struggle between the extreme left, which supports this government and the Socialist Party ; they want to show the Portuguese who has in their pocket. Is it the Socialist Party that has the extreme left in its pocket? Or is it the extreme left that the Socialist Party has in his pocket? It's this fight that's at stake here. This is a struggle that may be of interest to the visas and Members of the various parliamentary groups, but we in the CDS say that it does not matter to the Portuguese, because it does not have them as last interested, like the face of the measures. It is a struggle that only deals with the division of power and the affirmation of each of the parliamentary groups between themselves. Finally, these proposals confront the Socialist Party with the process of social consultation, with its solution, by saying here that it refers to social consultation changes in the field of labour. But what consistency, which coherence, has this government, a government that has a majority in Parliament that clearly challenges its purpose of valuing social dialogue? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we already know what this has done in the past: it has made agreements signed and broken and then tried to amend its hand. That, once again, doesn't matter to the Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u160	Mrs Carla Barros has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u161	Mr President, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, I would like to tell you that the PSD Parliamentary Group shares its concerns and what you mentioned in your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u162	What news! Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u163	With this discussion, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the hourly table, a very relevant issue for the world of work and employment, and in view of what has happened here today, the PSD understands — and raises this concern to the Socialist Party and the Government, which is not present, but will certainly hear our message — that it is a good time for the Government and the Socialist Party to link their barometer of trust, which will measure the credibility and confidence of the Government and the Socialist Party with their coalition partners. This is a good time for the Government and the Socialist Party to decide whether they are with the right partners to govern the country and raise these important issues of employment and work very high. It is no longer the first time that the Government commits itself to discussing issues such as the hour bank in social consultation and that then, as today, its coalition partners, the Left Block and the PCP, were involved in this commitment, allowing all of us to watch this stage. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the PSD wants to know is, after all, who is misleading who. The PSD is very calm to convey this message to them: it does not matter to us, in fact, nothing cares that the Left Block and the PCP deceive the Socialist Party and the Government for life. That's none of our business. What the PSD cannot allow — and it will denounce whenever necessary — is that the Government and the Socialist Party make commitments to discuss matters of relevance to the country within social dialogue and allow this stage to the Left Block and the CFP that they want nothing more than to mark their political agenda, even if that... [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] ...involves the escape to the commitments they have towards the government on behalf of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u164	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u165	Mr President, Mrs Carla Barros, I begin by thanking you for your question and by saying that, in fact, this is a question that causes a lot of perplexity, perplexity that is shared by the Portuguese. This is because, of two, one, or in Parliament we are doing a serious exercise, and the Left Block and the PCP have the opportunity to demonstrate that they do so seriously and take away consequences from what they are saying here (i.e., they cannot but say that they do not support a government that does not promote its agenda), or we are here doing a face-to-face exercise, in which the Left Block and the PCP pretend to be very angry, the PS pretends to be sensitive to the appeals of the Left Block and the PCP, at the end of the day they do neither one thing nor another, everything continues in the same and the two pretends, in front of the Portuguese, that everything can continue like this. This is an incomprehensible exercise for Portuguese. Therefore, of two, one : either the Left Block and the CFP withdraw the consequences, and basically withdraw the confidence that the government assumes the ability to be in social consultation, before the social partners, to take on its commitments; or, then, the Government has all the conditions to negotiate what it understands with the social consultation, even if it goes against the positions of the Left Block and the CFP. That's all that's at stake. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carla Barros.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u166	For an intervention, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the close of this debate we want to leave three or four well-fused ideas on the side of the PSD. First of all, I want to say that employment, unemployment, growth in the economy are matters of great sensitivity, not only because of the realization that each citizen is entitled to, but also because we have created a social state that lives mainly because of the growth of the economy, employment growth and decline, reduction, unemployment. It is therefore crucial and inevitable for us that this debate should be absolutely serious and be looked at with all honesty, with all eternity. So for us, it is a little strange this whole exercise, all this ritual going on in Parliament. We have already had a situation, at the end of April and the beginning of May, and now, at the beginning of June, we are having the same situation: the PCP and the Left Block are digesting themselves, to see who is best friends of the saint, who is as he says, who is able to destroy the dynamics created in the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u168	The same conversation again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u169	This, for us, is truly overwhelming. We have seen this exercise of the Socialist Party here: what does the Socialist Party do? You want a finished example! — it was the answer, the non-response, which Mr António Bexiga tried to give to Mrs Rita Rato. An answer that is nothing, which is zero, a confusing answer, because, in fact, the Socialist Party feels, as my colleague Mercês Borges said, deceived, engrossed in this situation of parliamentary dialectics. The Socialist Party has, in fact, a great responsibility here. The Socialist Party knows that employment and unemployment are truly matters of greatest importance and is here in a dilemma exercise, which is, on the one hand, trying to confront with the offensive of revision, revocation, reversal by its coalition partners and, on the other hand, is very pleased with the labour legislation made in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 that has given such good results.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u170	And that was in the Memorandum!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u171	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u172	In fact, it was with some surprise that I heard the Left Block Member, at the beginning of this debate, saying that we are facing an unprecedented reduction in unemployment. Exactly, unpublished! Today, Minister Mário Centeno said, ufano, that we are greatly reducing unemployment. And we, on this bench, are also very happy about that, of course. But you lack political seriousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u174	... you lack - the political honesty to say that all this results from labour law, modified, for good, in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. [[PSD applause.]] Your owner and also social consultation. in this bench we extend that social consultation is not an idol, it is not an absolute, undisturbed totem, but it is a political heritage, it is a social heritage, it is a heritage of Portuguese democracy. We therefore believe that all these exercises to try to overcome, to try to undermine social dialogue in such matters are wrong exercises. We understand very well the idea of the Left Block and also of the PCP. the PCP, until we can say that it does in the Assembly of the Republic the work of the CGTP, so that the CGTP does the work of the PCP on the street.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u176	So we understand that there are other designs, other ways. Now, what we do not understand is this hesitant exercise, beaten down by the government, which does not give credibility, which does not give confidence and which embarrasss the labour market, when it has to be exactly the opposite. What is proposed to us by the PCP and the Left Block, with this hesitant and dialectical exercise of the PS, is to walk back. We understand that today's world of work has challenges, that today's world of work is faced with new realities in the economy, even in working relationships, and we cannot look at these matters as we look at the past. The past is over, the past has been an ideology that is over, that has not been successful, and therefore I really recommend the Left Block and the PCP to update and adapt to those who are the new challenges. And that's what's happening in other countries. France, for example, will now make new labour legislation; it is precisely in this exercise to try to bring labour legislation into line with the challenges of the present and the future. Finally, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that the PSD is in this debate beating itself by the persistence of laws that give credibility to the labour market, which continue to accelerate job creation and slow unemployment. The PSD is struggling for labour measures that create an economy, give strength to the economy, that are the lung of the economy, because the social state that we created is the result of the supreme instrument of social dialogue among all Portuguese and, above all, the promotion of equal opportunities among all citizens. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u178	Mr José Moura Soeiro has signed up to request clarification, but Mr Adam Silva has no time to answer. So the intention is announced...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u179	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u180	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u181	Mr President, if I may, at the request of the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, I inform you that, if the PSD wants to, we give the PSD one minute so that Mr. Adam Silva can respond and thus maintain Mr. José Soeiro's registration for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u182	Do we have the PSD agreement for this purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u183	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u184	Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u185	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, the legacy of the PSD and the CDS, in terms of the labour market and the reforms that the PSD and the CDS have made, was the destruction of half a million jobs, and I am referring to Banco de Portugal's data on the period of austerity. This half a million jobs that the PSD and the CDS have destroyed with austerity policy and changes to labour law had a strong impact on the increase in unemployment rate and made us have employment levels that are only comparable to the 1960s and immigration levels that have brought us back many decades. This was the legacy of PSD and CDS in terms of job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u186	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u187	But there is another inheritance and that is what we want, yes, to revoke. With the current majority's income recovery policy it was possible to re-create jobs, there were 150 000 jobs that were created in the last two years with the majority's policy. The problem, Mr, is the type of job that has been created because with the legislation that is still in force, the PSD and the CDS, employment has been created, yes... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u188	...but most of this job is precarious,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u189	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u190	... and it is precarious because the law of the PSD and the CDS allows that job to be made at the cost of future contracts, and that is, yes, Mr. Deputies, that the left wants to change, is also what is in the Government Programme and that urgency needs to be brought to Portuguese workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u191	To reply, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u192	Mr President, first of all, double thanks to the Left Block, not only for the time you have available but also for the question you have asked me. With all due respect, Mr José Soeiro, I will tell you very well-known facts. In 2011 Portugal was in a bankruptcy situation and something needed to be done to re-enter the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u193	They destroyed 500 000 jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u194	It is true that unemployment has grown enormously, until 2013. V. Ex.a knows, and we all know, that in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 a labour law was made that adjusted the labour market and corrected some aspects and that since 2013 the labour market has been reflecting these improvements in labour law. That is why we have a decrease in unemployment and an increase in employment. What is happening right now is that the Government that you support, which has not done any job reform that is not following what has been done, is inheriting from the results of the labour law that was done in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. So, you should thank me... [[BE's laughs.]] ... the courage of a PSD government, having faced the situation of bankruptcy of the country, has raised the country and created the job necessary for the country to succeed. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by members of BE Isabel Pires and José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u195	To put an end to this debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, I confess that this debate was not necessarily to hear your views. [[Aren't you?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u197	They are known, they are completely away from ours, and your practice is in the background of what we defend. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That is why we, of whom created this precarious work, expect nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u199	When the extreme right of the CDS comes to say what I said in this debate, little by talking about the content of the proposals, always fleeing to the regulatory questions, we realize: the content is uncomfortable because giving rights to workers is not something that the CDS says about. On the consequences of the proposals, see even the rejection. The CDS says that the Left Block has no consequence when it presents draft laws on matters which the Assembly of the Republic can and should legislate, but by two days, the CDS has a legislative agenda on labour legislation for, and it is the only thing it does — I repeat, it is the only thing it does — to recommend to the government to do something.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u200	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u201	Now, on the consequence of the extreme right of the CDS we are already clear: it is completely inconsequential and only brings demagogy to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u203	But in the PSD, in labour matters, we know that ideological extremism prevails. That is why I am afraid to believe that it is precarious to create jobs, when it is the opposite, to give people rights, particularly through wages — in this particular case, contrary to what the PSD defended when it was in the government with the CDS — which has helped to grow the economy. Mr Adam Silva said: "But during the governance period of the PSD / CDS there was a huge crisis and, as we could not get out of the crisis, unemployment has increased! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, we are leaving the crisis because we are implementing the opposite of the policies that the PSD and CDS had implemented. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD laughter.]] On the contrary! We are applying the increase of minimum wage, the elimination of cuts in public administration, the extraordinary increase in pensions, unlike the freezing of pensions... The conclusion we can draw is that if the crisis was not inevitable and was sharpened by the PSD and CDS, then there were alternatives to the policies that were being taken forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u204	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u205	The hard work was done here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u206	We know this and people are becoming aware of it through the improvements that they feel in their lives. The PSD and CDS are still holding on to the four years of governance. But for that, we have no answer, that is the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS and it is the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who will have to get out of that maze where they are now. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u207	This debate was to confront this parliamentary majority with his word, with the work he has been doing and with what he has promised the country. On this issue, we have brought out two bills that are not the principle position of the Left Block, which, within a working group with the Government and the Socialist Party, was possible to achieve and is what is in the Government Programme. So when we hear from the Socialist Party that these are partial measures and if you want a deeper change, we follow the idea, we want a deeper change. The problem is that these partial measures are the only ones that appear either in the Government Programme or, then, were a reason for agreement between the PS and the Left Block. It wasn't other, it was these. If there were more to agree, we would have agreed,... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u208	...we would have worked that way. It was not for lack of imagination, initiative, or availability of the Left Block, was for lack of will or the Government or the Socialist Party. Therefore, we have removed this idea from the table that this is to be shared and that does not correspond to a fundamental change, because this has not been the will of the Government in this matter and has not been the will of the Socialist Party. The debate could now be changed: it was enough for the PS to announce a new proposal from the Government or a new proposal from the Socialist Party in the Assembly of the Republic to say that it had now changed its position. Well, we haven't seen anything about it, and when we look at Mr. Ricardo Bexiga's intervention, we see that he couldn't attack what was subscribed to by Mr. Mr Rui Riso or Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro in the working group, what I said is that he will stay for other weddings. He cannot attack what is said in the Government Programme, and what he says is that he will remain for other weddings. But those who suffer from precariousness cannot be constantly seeing their rights denied in the present and postponed to the future, which is uncertain. The frozen life of those in a future contract situation, and it should not be — the Socialist Party itself recognises that this situation is unacceptable — cannot be maintained. The pressure that workers and workers suffer when individually they are forced to have flexibility in their working hours, destructing their family lives, should not happen and is in the Government Programme, but the Government Programme is 2015 and we are in 2017. Or we realize that there are emergencies in the country, beyond the financial system, beyond the answers to Brussels, which is the life of concrete people,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u209	... to whom the economic situation has not yet been improved, or we are failing the objective we proposed at the beginning of this discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This is therefore the challenge the Left Block does. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following: these proposals — and this is for the House’s information — will not be put to the vote this week because it is not necessary to carry out its public discussion period, so we will have the possibility to put forward more arguments and more justifications in committee to ensure that there is a parliamentary majority to support them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u210	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our agenda for today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u211	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to speak to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u212	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u213	Mr President, it has been said here that this debate has not been scheduled by the Left Block to hear what the so-called "opposition" benches are. Now, being this House of Democracy, when some parliamentary group is allowed to say that it does not schedule a debate to hear those who oppose it, this means the violation of a constitutional and regulatory principle of this House. This should have been marked. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u214	You are duly marked, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u215	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u216	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u217	Mr President, if I may, in the same terms, and to clarify something that seems to me simply to be sound.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u218	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u219	The phrase I said—and I will quote textually—was that we were not expecting any change in the position of the right benches... [[No, no! It wasn't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u220	You have to let me finish, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I said this sentence in advance of another one,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u221	...that was that we didn't expect to change ideas on the right and that we already knew them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u222	Everyone knows them already!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u223	In fact, I believe that our position in this debate, even giving the Democratic Social Party time to be able to answer questions from the Left Block, demonstrates all democratic freedom and all respect for all opinions. Unfortunately, this initial assumption was not denied by the positions and ideas assumed here by the PSD and the CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u224	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u225	Madam Member, I was grateful that this incident could be resolved as soon as possible, but, of course, to have the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u226	Mr. President, this is not an incident. This is something crucial in the operation of this House. It is that when there is a party that is allowed to say that it is not here, nor an agenda, to listen to the parties that oppose it in ideological terms or ideas, this is a crucial issue in the functioning of democracy. On the other hand, I do not know any reply to requests for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-07.u227	Madam Member, the Bureau, in view of the success of the event, the only recommendation it would make was that, as far as possible, the use of expressions which might possibly be interpreted in a way not entirely compatible with what is a democratic debate should be limited. I believe that no one has any doubt that this is to be avoided. Having passed this issue, I must say that we do not now have the results of the election of a member to the Information System Supervisory Board of the Portuguese Republic ( CFSIRP ), this election which lasted until 17 hours. Accordingly, the results will be announced at the next plenary session tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will be completed with a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the, on education policy. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 11 minutes.]]
