ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. Before we start today's debate, I will give the floor to the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Emilia Santos, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 495 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment to Law No 40 / 2015 of 1 June 2015 establishing the professional qualification required by technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, coordination of projects, direction of public or private work, conduct of the execution of the work of the different specialties in particular works of class 6 or higher and of the supervision of public or private works, making the first amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u3	We will start the agenda with the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 443 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 148 / 2015 of 09 September which approved the Legal System of Audit Supervision by strengthening the supervisory powers of the Securities Market Committee in verifying any conflicts of interest between the audit exercise to public interest entities and the provision of consulting services to such entities or third parties ( CDS-PP ), 444 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended fourth Decree-Law No. 228 / 2000 of 23 September ( establishing the National Council of Financial Supervisors ), strengthening the powers of the National Council of Financial Supervisors, and promoting efficient collaboration and coordination between the various financial supervisory bodies, Banco de Portugal, Commission on the Securities Market and Insurance Supervisory Authority ( ASF ), establishing an executive secretariat ( CDS-PP ), 445 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies adopted by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December adopting restrictive measures in the marketing of financial products and instruments by credit institutions and financial corporations ( CDS-PP ), 446 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January, Organic Law of the Banco de Portugal, introducing the rule that the completion of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal is carried out by competitive procedure ( CDS-PP ), 447 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December approving the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, strengthening the supervisory powers of the Banco de Portugal as regards the corporate governance systems of credit institutions and introducing limitations on the granting of credit to holders of qualifying holdings in credit institutions ( CDS-PP ), 448 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, preventing the allocation of incentives for marketing to the retail of specific products or financial instruments and reinforcing the intervention of the Banco de Portugal in this area ( CDS-PP ), 489 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It imposes the classification of public supply to all positions involving unqualified investors, ensuring greater protection for small investors ( amendment to the Securities Code, approved by Decree-Law No 486 / 99 of 13 November ) ( BE), 490 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Limits the marketing of financial products ( amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December ) ( BE ), 491 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — prohibits banks from carrying out transactions on securities issued by themselves or by entities related to them ( amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December ) ( BE ), 494 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens supervisory obligations by Banco de Portugal and transparency in conducting audits to credit institutions and financial corporations ( 36 ). the amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ( PCP ) together with draft resolutions 787 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the exemption of Carlos Costa from the position of Governor of Banco de Portugal ( BE ) and 788 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the weighting of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Investigation Committees in the context of the transposition of the Financial Markets and Instruments Directive and the Reform of the Financial Sector Supervision Model ( PS ). To present the draft laws of the authorship of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today six bills with clear, concrete and surgical proposals. It is our contribution to this discussion and we think it makes no sense to be delaying what can be solved today. These are clear proposals that solve concrete problems of banking supervision. We thus present a draft law to create a culture of requirement in supervision, because we know well—and unfortunately, the history of Portuguese supervision has already taught us—that it is not enough to oversee the rules, that is, it is not enough simply to ensure that there are management structures in banks, that they have bodies that work very well in a PowerPoint to see but that then, in practice, they work completely differently or do not work at all, or still have a person who makes all the decisions. in the same way, we understand that it does not make sense the continuation of a almost sort of epistollary supervision, in which the offices walk from one place to another, from the supervisor to the banks, from the banks to the supervisor and, purely and simply, nothing happens. This proposal is a legislative proposal which gives a very clear signal to the supervisor what needs to be done. We also take the opportunity to reduce the legal limit for the granting of direct or indirect financing to qualified shareholders from the current 10 % of own funds to 2 % of these funds. But we do not forget that this culture of requirement in supervision does not only apply to supervisors. The Banco de Portugal must be the first to set an example. The proposal we bring here is also concrete and means that the directors of the department, at least these, are chosen in a transparent way, with impartial jury, through a competitive process. If we want better supervision, then the supervisor has to choose the best ones and know why he chooses who he chooses. Thirdly, it is also important to remove consequences from what has already been decided in Parliament and, in some cases, it has been decided almost two years ago. We see that some parties, such as the PS, consider that it is necessary to recommend to the government that it should weigh. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after having reached conclusions in 2015 and having already recommended to the Government in 2015, will it really be important that we be considering the same conclusions two years ago? Wouldn't it make more sense to do something today? [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is why the CDS also makes its contribution clear. It makes its contribution by introducing rules for the marketing of risk financial products, which cannot be marketed in the same physical space where bank customers usually deal with their accounts and deposits and cannot be marketed by account managers, whom customers contact and with whom they establish a relationship of great trust. in the same way, we also established rules for the variable remuneration of these professionals, preventing the establishment of premiums for the aggressive marketing of these products. Fourthly, we present a project to put the CMVM, which is the auditor's supervisor, to see seriously what happens with their supervisors and to monitor conflicts of interest between consulting and audit. It is clear that consulting activity can be used to circumvent a legal requirement for limitation of audit mandates and it also seems to us that it makes no sense that an auditor who assesses, for example, poor credit will then be a consultant to the buyer of that same credit. There is a clear conflict of interests that must be monitored by the supervisor. Of course, we realize that, with regard to some of these points, particularly with regard to the marketing of financial products, there is a preliminary draft directive and of course we are available to discuss it. As we also see, the government has already announced that it is studying this issue and will produce a report. I should like to know when it will be, not the measures announced, but at least the report, because, frankly, you know. Ladies and gentlemen, you may think that creating another body will solve all the problems, but if we do not all realize that there are concrete problems that go far beyond the architecture of supervision, we will not solve any problems. These are our ideas. We did things in the right order: we brought first ideas, solutions and then the discussion of people. If we were convinced that it would be enough to change a name in the supervision so that everything was solved, we would have a much more optimistic idea than what we really have. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Before it was so easy to solve all supervisory problems. from our point of view, we must first solve the problems we have identified. Then we have concrete ideas about the form of appointment that should be used for supervisors. This is our way of doing things: first, discussing ideas; then discussing names. Ours are on the table. We're waiting for the others. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u5	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Debates on the financial system have been a constant in the Assembly of the Republic. We were still debating the New Bank yesterday — it is not the first or the last time. The financial system is one of the country's economic and financial problems, but the main problem, and there are different levels of action to deal with the problems of the financial system. There is a first systemic level and, at systemic level, we can say that today we are better than three years ago, when the PSD and CDS government has been pushing problems with the belly, without solving any systemic problems of the bank in Portugal. But we can also say that there are reasons for concern, because today the nationality of the bank is, above all, foreign, we have 'better funds' which take over from our bank and today we have no guarantee that our bank will comply with principles of respect and service to the economy, rather than only the designs of its private investors. Therefore, the Left Block has said that the systemic problem of the bank is solved with public property, but not only because it is not solution for all problems, it is a step to get there, in addition to other impediments to the speculation and activity of the bank. But let us put the systemic debate aside. He'll have, and he's got, other moments. We will focus on two other necessary points when we talk about the bank. The first is supervision and the second is regulation, and for both the Left Block today brings initiatives to Parliament. Let's start with supervision. Supervision needs a new model; this model of supervision does not work for the kind of financial markets we have today. Soon we will have this debate in the Assembly of the Republic, the Left Block will make its contribution on the new supervisory model, in which behavioral and prudential supervision is not separated by areas but may be cross-cutting to all financial activity. I think this is sensible and appropriate to the type of operation of financial markets today. But we also talk about regulation of the financial system. Whoever was in the commission of inquiry—and also who was not—BANIF, BES, BPN, BPP identified concrete problems in the sale of financial products to the counters, where there was clear abuse of the dominant position by the bank to missell, impinge or abuse this information position to somehow sell products to the counters, impinge them to their customers, products that served to finance the group itself and to finance its bank. The Left Block presents three bills that we think go to the root of this problem. First of all, a project to separate the type of product that can be sold in the counters of the banks. I think the explanation is very simple. It is very easy to confuse a product with a guarantee of capital of a capital product guaranteed by the Deposit Guarantee Fund. And it is this confusion that is systematically used to somehow guide these bank customers to buy products that they do not really want to buy because they want a product guaranteed by the Deposit Guarantee Fund and are only buying a product guaranteed by the bank. Therefore, the Left Block proposes that the sale of these products be separated on the counters. Secondly, the sale of own products to the counter. Banks or related entities issue debt products, cannot sell them in markets to institutional investors and therefore opt for a second route, which is to sell them directly to the counters, directly to customers who are less able to assess the financial situation of these companies. To solve this problem and cut the evil by root the Left Block proposes that it is impossible for banking institutions to sell retail, their counters, own debt products or related business debt products. If debt is good it will certainly be sold in financial markets, it does not have to be sold to retail customers. Finally, private emissions. We want all debt issues or debt instruments to non-institutional customers to be monitored by the CMVM. There is one last point which I would like to mention very quickly and which concerns the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. Protecting the credibility of Banco de Portugal implies that we assume that the Governor was incompetent in his duties and that incompetent must have consequences. This is why it is time to assume that there have been several serious supervisory failures and that we are consistent with the conclusions we have reached in the Committee of Inquiry. Thus, the Left Block has proposed to the Government that it should recommend the removal, through a proposal in the Council of Ministers, of Governor Carlos Costa. We believe that this is the best way to protect Banco de Portugal from someone who is in front of you but that somehow brings credibility to the supervisory institution in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u7	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unlike the CDS, the PCP has not discovered the powder on the problems of supervision now. Interestingly, the CDS, after having been in government for four years, not only presented nothing for the regulation of the supervision of the financial sector as, together with the PSD, hid and contributed to hide deep public knowledge problems in the financial system, as is the case with BANIF and the General Deposit Box. Therefore, the PCP brings again to this House a proposal, which, curiously too, is now, to a large extent, adopted by the CDS, after having been rejected by the CDS in the past legislature. The CDS has now come to tell us that it is necessary to prevent the circulation of tables between consultants, auditors and banks — which the PCP has proposed, against which the CDS had voted and which the PCP has proposed again — and that it is necessary to prevent auditors from providing the external audit and consultancy service at the same time — which the PCP agrees with, which it has already proposed, against which the CDS had voted and which the PCP is proposing again today. However, the PCP goes further. It is true, and it has already been mentioned here, that the issue of supervision does not address, in a strategic and systemic way, the problems of the financial sector and that these problems can only be effectively solved by assuming public control of the bank and placing the banks at the service of the people and the country, removing them from the sphere of service that only lend to their great shareholders, according to their whims and longings at all times. But it is no less true that contributing to more efficient supervision also does not make the problem worse and may in fact avoid some of the problems. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since BPN until today, how many times have we heard 'can't repeat'? How many times in this House, all Members of Parliament have said, after each of the committees of inquiry, 'We must take steps not to repeat ourselves, so that the collapse of a bank will not happen again, so that a bank will not be robbed by its own administrators'? And yet the most representative parliamentary groups block all the proposals, particularly those of the CFP, which can contribute in fact to preventing these events from happening again. However, this will not happen until, for example, we continue to accept that the financial system can be managed by private entities and audited by other private entities with whom the employees and the tables share and be advised by these same private entities to design, as effectively as possible, ways to escape from the law and tax corruption. This will not happen until, for example, banks continue to be supervised by a Banco de Portugal which does not have inspectors but hires the same companies that consult and audit banks to do their audits. In other words, the Banco de Portugal has no way of confirming the information of the bank, it has no way of intervening in the bank, and specifically asks the same companies to audit the banks that also conduct an audit for the Banco de Portugal. So this situation, which seems ridiculous but actually corresponds to the truth, has to end. PSD, PS and CDS have always rejected the PCP's proposal to allocate to Banco de Portugal the ability to carry out their own audits without having to hire the same companies that systematically serve as biombo and which cover the illegalities of the bank, which are often and in many cases external auditors. Once again, and without putting aside the fundamental question of the public control of the bank, the ownership and public control of the bank, in this matter of supervision, the CFP proposes strengthening the means of the Banco de Portugal, breaking up with the practice of externalization of services. Finally, Mrs. Members, we are often talking about forensic audits. Even in the Assembly of the Republic there has been talk of forensic audits promoted by Banco de Portugal. These forensic audits, which are requested by Banco de Portugal, are made by private companies, the same private companies that help banks hide the illegalities they practice. However, the CFP also proposes that they no longer be outsourced and that they become mandatory by Banco de Portugal itself. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u9	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate about banking supervision and customer and investor protection necessarily has a new starting point. The conclusions of the parliamentary committees of inquiry, the identification of errors, omissions and overlaps in prudential and behavioral supervisory tasks, together with aggressive commercial practices identified in the committees of inquiry, became imperative new legislative initiative. Alongside this legislative initiative, focusing on the conclusions of the parliamentary committees of inquiry, the new building of the Banking Union has yet to be completed has led to successive amendments to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies. In Portuguese society there is a sense of urgency in the protection of investors and customers. In Portuguese society there is a sense of urgency in the stability of the banking system and the capital market. So the way is clear. First, it is priority to stabilize the banking sector, with adequate capitalisation of banking institutions, not only in regulatory terms, but by meeting the best international benchmarks. Secondly, it is important to continue to reduce non-productive credits by adjusting over- and at-risk credit levels with their European counterparts. Third, it is priority to strengthen the control mechanisms of banking activity and financial intermediation, ensuring that customers and investors are adequately protected. It is to this extent that the XXI Constitutional Government has taken measures to sanitize the financial sector. That is why we should now seek to strengthen two essential pillars: firstly, to change the supervisory model, re-equarating the coordination between prudential and behavioral supervision, together with the review of tasks within macroprudential supervision and the resolution function; and, secondly, to promote the amendment of the Securities Code, protecting more effectively investors and workers from aggressive commercial practices. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the past that moves us, but the future. Therefore, at the time of this discussion, we know three important aspects. First, we know that the Government will bring to this House the revision and revision of the Financial Markets and Instruments Directive as well as its Rules of Procedure and that the Government in March in this House said that it would bring in the autumn a proposal for a new model of supervision. Secondly, we know that there are a number of legislative proposals, some of which I have just mentioned, which already have a draft bill and which are in public discussion. Third, the Socialist Party will also present in this House, of course after a deep discussion with industry stakeholders, new legislative proposals. Time and mode are central elements to make us effective. That is why Mrs Cecilia Meireles, whom the PS Parliamentary Group today asks to consider. To weigh to legislate well, when, to a large extent, we did not expect to hear from your mouth, which so much defended the previous government, which today has a great urgency to legislate, when, even recently, it has supported a government that has not exactly legislate in this area...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u11	Forget it! They were forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u12	... or, at least, with the effectiveness that you are calling on the Socialist Party today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot deal with hammers and brush what needs a fine scalpel. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party is available, as a specialist, to improve all proposals, to accompany all proposals for customer protection. But it will not support any measure which, in a populist way, undermines the banking sector in Portugal and the efficiency and competitiveness of the capital market. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, our will is to work together and improve, but never to deal with a problem by leaving many others to solve or deepen many others. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Between 2012 and 2015, there were important and profound changes in the supervisory regime that improved the protection of families and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u15	Look at that! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u16	During that period, the former Government implemented more than a dozen laws to strengthen supervisory powers, increase the sanctioning regime, protect customers from financial institutions and limit taxpayer exposure to potential financial sector crises. These important changes are still quite recent in some cases, so they require an evaluation period. But the PSD is a reformist party and therefore we welcome this debate. We believe that it is possible to continue to improve the supervisory regime. We must start at European level by completing the Banking Union with the European deposit guarantee mechanism. Without this mechanism, problems in the financial sector are dealt with at European level, but the consequences continue to fall mainly in the Member States. And this left-wing government, which promised that the German bankers were even shaking, is still quiet. It does not insist, it does not require what is essential to complete the Banking Union. The government, which was going to « make a big voice », after all, « pia fininho ». At internal level, we should strengthen coordination between supervisors, increasing the capacity and responsibility of the National Council of Financial Supervisors, with their own resources and teams, and improving behavioral supervision, i.e. the supervision of products sold to financial institutions counters. in the resolution, we must separate the executive functions of managing and selling the assets and transitional bank, but also control banking incentive systems and limit the financing of related parties. in our view, these changes, which are important and necessary, should, however, respect three principles: avoiding transitional costs for the financial sector and for taxpayers, which recommends weighting on changes; avoiding fragmentation of critical mass of resources that is being accumulated in financial supervisors but which still needs to be completed; and, finally, and more importantly, preserving and even strengthening the independence of supervisory institutions. The independence of the central bank, vis-à-vis the supervisors and the political power, is fundamental, because it limits the ability to influence politics in the financial system, which has been a cause of great mistrust on the part of citizens. That's why, sirs. Members, who will not get into the conversation, promoted here by the Left Block, who want to focus the debate on individuals rather than institutions. This debate is an open door to weakening institutions. More serious is the position of the PS, which has been very clear: it wants to return to the time-sweet times of Eng.o Socrates, with a direct view of the supervision that undermines the independence of the supervisors, in particular the Banco de Portugal. And the attacks on independence have already begun. This Government, supported by the Left, rejected Banco de Portugal's indications for appointments to the Board of Directors, extravading its approval function. The Government and the PS systematically attack the Governor of Banco de Portugal, obliging him to a public defense of his independence. [[PS and BE protests.]] And more recently, here in this Chamber, which is very serious, the Minister of Finance said: « It is not possible to attribute independence status(...) when the performance has to be done with the Ministry of Finance ». This expression, Mr. Members, he says everything, shows that the Minister believes in the political subordination of the Banco de Portugal in the area of supervision. But we know this is very dangerous. Mrs. Members, the results of the interference of the former PS Government in the financial sector are in view of everyone. Still today, they make headlines in newspapers. It's an intolerable attack and we won't deal with it. Mrs. Members, in a reformist and progress vision of the PSD are well-considered changes to supervision, but there are no unchallenged attacks on institutions whose independence is essential for the successful development of their family and business protection work. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u17	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The Bureau records the registration of Mr. João Galamba of the Socialist Party to request clarification from Mrs. Inês Domingos. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u18	Mr President, Mrs Inês Domingos, there seems to be some confusion between dimensions of supervision and I just wanted to ask whether or not macro-prudential supervision, which has an intersection with budgetary policy and macroeconomic policy, should be conducted solely by an independent entity. I tell you already, Mrs Deputies, that if the PSD defends this, neither the Governor of Banco de Portugal nor the Banco de Portugal agree with this position of the PSD, and you can ask the Banco de Portugal and the Governor of Banco de Portugal whether or not the macro-prudential supervisory policy has strong links with budgetary policy and macroeconomic stabilization policy. Macroprudential supervision policy can, for example, take fiscal dimensions, because it does not have to be only prudential, as is done today by Banco de Portugal, involving increases in capital ratios. Therefore, I would like the PSD to be clear and to say whether or not it considers that macro-prudential policy, a new area of financial stabilization, which has a very strong link to economic policy and which can only be led by a government, should be divorced from government policy and government control. If the PSD defends this, then it is good for the PSD to know that neither Banco de Portugal has this position and that the PSD would thus be alone in defending an option that seems deeply irrational to us. If there is something about the responsibility of governments is the conduct of economic policy and if there is an area of supervision that has links with economic policy, it cannot be divorced from the conduct of economic policy and be conducted only by an independent entity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u19	Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u20	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, thank you for your question. The only thing we want to do is to prevent the government from becoming the political controller of the Banco de Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u21	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I think it is important for this debate to clarify things, so everyone needs to say what he wants to do and put the letters on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u24	Are you talking to the CDS?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u25	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, the PS says you need a fine scalpel and you need to study. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have not yet studied what you need to do, if you need a scalpel or if you need a hammer, you will have to realize that later. In any case, Mr President, I would like to ask you about a sentence you said here. He said: "It is not worth dealing with a problem leaving others unsolved. » Mr, I think it is worth dealing with a problem and then going to deal with others.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u26	It's worth it. There's no more trouble!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u27	What is not worth is, at a time of time, to say this: « It is better to leave all the problems to be solved and not to deal with anything. » That doesn't make any sense. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u28	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we have complete openness to discuss, in the specialty, all the amendments. What we really don't think is worth is leaving for tomorrow what can be solved by today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u29	The Bureau records the registration of Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the Socialist Party to request clarification from Mrs Cecilia Meireles. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I was not waiting for this speech because I thought it was clear. A short time ago, from the rostrum, I said that we have a preliminary draft transposition of a directive on financial instrument markets, whose public discussion has ended, which systematically addresses a large part of the protection affairs of investors and customers and that it will certainly come to this plenary, even at this Legislative Session or at the beginning of the next one. And Mrs Cecilia Meireles and the CDS say: « No, no! We want to solve problems! Do not keep on seeking. ” I will give you just one example of a problem the CDS wants to solve: that of the segregation of counters, the segregation of customer entry and investors in the purchase of financial products and banking products. in the case of BES, some of the self-denominated « affected by trade paper» entered different counters: they moved from one issue of Freedom Avenue to the next number, moved from one building to another, and were as deceived as the others. [[He's wrong!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u31	Secondly, the honourable Member has proposed some initiatives within the framework of supervision and a secretariat, when the model of revision — indeed, as Mrs Inês Domingos said — is under assessment, based on new realities. Madam Member, the PS does not participate in a political populist party, a mere political game, to mark points today, when, politically, from a significant point of view, the proposals are zero, do not solve problems and add others. Madam Member, we are prepared for all the debates, but for serious debates, not for debates that do not add value. Please, Mrs Deputy, it would be good for you to have another approach to the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u32	What a disgrace of intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u33	In response to this request for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the PS, a serious debate is to recommend to the Government the weighting of the conclusions we have already drawn two years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u35	It's a very pathetic idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u36	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u37	The idea of government seriousness is to make and announce committees, studies and evaluations. from our point of view, this is not serious, it is delaying and making meaningless and meaningless announcements, running away from the problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u38	This is a problem that comes from the government that the honourable Member has supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u39	That is exactly what the PS has done in this debate, because I have already heard, I do not know how many times, announce the same thing, that is, they are studying the problem. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Secondly, on the issue of the directive, what I have said to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we have complete openness — I repeat, complete openness — but we simply cannot follow this totalitarian idea that only the PS can have an opinion and only the government can discuss the issues. With regard to the question of the segregation of balconies, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias has forgotten, perhaps, that there have been products sold in separate balconies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u40	You've fooled yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u41	... and many of the injured are exactly excluded from the solution you have found, because they are those of the Private Bank. [[Now...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u42	That's what you forgot. If you think they are hurt like others, you might want to apply to them the same solution that you applied to others. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u43	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u44	Mr President, I have difficulty in discussing with the PSD, since I cannot discuss your proposals because I have brought none,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u45	I brought zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u46	...and I cannot respond to criticism, because it criticizes us for false things, which is the easiest way to make criticism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u47	They haven't read our proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u48	Therefore, the conclusion I draw is that the PSD is absolutely irrelevant for this debate and therefore I turn to the CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]] in the projects that the CDS brought to this debate, there are virtues that we accompany. But, especially with regard to supervision, we believe that there are relatively sound proposals. I'll explain why. The CDS wants to solve the supervisory problems that have been identified over these years and this process without moving into the supervisory model itself, without taking into account the supervisory structure and even without understanding the institutional and cultural problems of supervision in Portugal. This does not mean that these proposals cannot be advanced—and, first, they have the agreement of the Left Block, because any small advance will always have the agreement of the Left Block—but I want to make it very clear that it is not the creation of an executive secretariat of the National Council of Financial Supervisors that resolves the link between supervisors. This is a problem of the supervisory model, it is a cultural problem of the supervisory institutions, and that is why the Left Block argues that the model has to be changed. It is not worth creating another organ, in a bureaucratic way, because there are already enough organs, there are already enough duties, but the model does not result because it is badly designed, and that is what we need to think about. Nor does it seem to us that it is a competitive procedure for appointing directors—although it is important, of course—that it will solve the problems of the Banco de Portugal, because, more often, they are model problems and there is, yes, a problem with its Governor. And don't ask me, please, to step aside from an incompetent Governor and don't tell me that this is attacking an institution. The Left Block still finds that the best way to defend the Banco de Portugal is to defend the Banco de Portugal of a Governor who is incompetent and that everyone knows it is incompetent! So what the Assembly of the Republic is doing—is what the PSD has done for four years—is protecting an incompetent Governor, who is a threat to the stability of the financial system. He's proven several times that he was.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u49	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. Nor does it seem to us that it is a generic allocation of powers to the CMVM (the Securities Market Committee) — powers which the institution already has — which solves the problems of conflict of interests of auditors. The problem remains: it is the banks that pay the auditors themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u51	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u52	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the Left Block has the willingness to consider, to discuss, to change, but we need votes to approve these proposals. And this is worth discussing these proposals and making a change that is, in fact, significant in the functioning of the financial system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u53	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Silva, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It should be clarified that most of the criticisms that are heard today relate to problems and situations that have occurred with a model of supervision that no longer exist, by virtue of laws that the previous Government and the PSD Parliamentary Group have approved in this House. It's about a time when supervision didn't see anything and I didn't want to see it. Made this intro, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to say that what cannot and should not happen is to come the Socialist Party, on the pretext of a debate which is intended to be serious, to attack the independence of the regulators, weakening the institutions. See the attacks of the parliamentary leader and PS President to the Governor of Banco de Portugal. See the need for intervention by the President of the Republic to protect the independence of Banco de Portugal. See what is happening with the appointment of the administrators of Banco de Portugal and the new members of the Council of Public Finance, whose nomination proposals have been subject to the government's veto just because they are not PS boys. « Whoever messes with the PS, leads », Jorge Coelho once said. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u55	Take it and take it all! But now they take them all and it's not just PS ; it's PS, Left Block and PCP! Moreover, the PS and the Government, with the support of the parliamentary left, go further: they take this opportunity to try to rewrite History, trying to pass the image that everything that is bad in the financial system is not their responsibility. But it is! It's true or not, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party, which Dr. Carlos Costa was appointed by a Government of the Socialist Party? Yes! Now you don't serve your interests and then you want to heal it! Open... It is true that the Banco de Portugal has not always acted with the speed it imposes, but it does not justify that we can turn it into the main offence of what happened in BES, Mrs Mariana Mortágua. Those responsible for the BSE disaster, for the losses of the injured, were their managers, which you who support the government, PS, Block of Left and PCP, deliberately attempt at all times to make them forget. in the novel that mounted around the BES, it seems that what is intended to protect Ricardo Salgado and transform the Governor of Banco de Portugal into the thief!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u56	You should be ashamed of what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u57	But let me tell you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not be surprised. This is the same PS as António Costa, who, as leader of the opposition, felt that the Rabbit Pass Government should have injected public money to save the BES and, with that, help Ricardo Salgado. This is the same PS of nationalized BPN, whose catastrophic management by the General Deposit Box cost taxpayers EUR 4000 to EUR 5000 million. This is the same PS of Santos Ferreira and Armando Vara who, while in the management of the Box, granted loans to friends and companies to acquire shares and thus took the BCP, to where they later transferred as administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u58	What about Loureiro Days? Speak up about the Loureiro Days!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u59	This is the same PS of José Socrates, who, as Prime Minister, sponsored funding to companies of the universe GES ( Grupo Espírito Santo ), which later led to the destruction of companies with added value, such as PT. This is the same PS of management, in which, after one third of its mandate, what we have about the financial system is reliable conversation. In just 16 months of term, they destroyed BANIF, weakened BES and the General Deposit Box,... [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] ... with irresponsible statements, and we fear what they can do with Montepio. We do not accept that they confuse police with thieves, that they remove your historical responsibility in the financial system and that they call into question independence and weaken the institutions and that they destroy the financial system. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u60	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say that the CFP is available for discussion in the specialty of most of the projects presented here, either by the CDS or by BE and, of course, by the CFP. Therefore, the debate that has been held in the specialty can eventually resolve some of the problems or some of the issues with which we have not identified ourselves at the beginning or which we think can be improved. from the PCP, there is full availability to proceed to this debate. But it cannot be mistaken that banking supervision, regardless of the regulatory layers that we can assign to it, remains a farce. The role of Banco de Portugal — banking supervision — as we know it, as a supposed regulator with the private bank, in fact, does not cease to be an advertising agency of that bank itself. At present, Banco de Portugal does not have the role of regulating the bank, it has the role of telling the Portuguese that everything goes well with the bank. In other words, the role of Banco de Portugal is to reassure the Portuguese, even when the bank is rotten.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u62	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u63	Finally, Mr President, the PSD and CDS have come here today to say that, above all, it is necessary to defend the independence of the Banco de Portugal. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what the CFP proposes here. But is anyone independent when he is dependent on external auditors, who are private companies, to carry out his own audits? Oh, my God! For example, would it be the PJ (Judicial Police) or the independent Public Prosecutor's Office if they had to hire private detectives to carry out their investigations? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u64	Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u65	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u66	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u67	Mr President, several times during the plenary meetings, the attention of the various parliamentary groups has been drawn to the expressions and terminology used by some of the Members. Members who are a little out of the parliamentary lexicon and who may even be considered offensive.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u68	So what about the term "management"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u69	I would just like to draw the Bureau's attention to the expression which has now been used by Mr Miguel Tiago, because, with all sincerity, we do not seem to have a bearing on this debate. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u70	But what expression? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u71	First of all, the Bureau asks the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can hear each other. Once this has been achieved, what I am grateful for, the Bureau calls on all parliamentary groups to be careful, in the conduct of their interventions — even though this debate or all the debates can, of course, achieve some intensity — to take some care. It is only this general caution that the Bureau recommends to all parliamentary groups, without exception. I would therefore be grateful if we could continue our work without any other incident.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u72	Mr President, I would also like to address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u73	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u74	Mr President, we did not know what Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim said. We were overlooked if there was any less self-expression. Perhaps it could be «management», but we did not hear... [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u75	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim again requested the floor for an appeal to the Bureau. Mr President, I ask you whether it is really necessary to use the floor, because if it is not, we could continue our work without more. But, finally, I can't take your word. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am convinced that Mr António Filipe's question is merely rhetorical. He knows perfectly well that the word 'cangillada' has an intent, a pejorative connotation. [[Oh! Don't tell me!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u77	Mr António Filipe knows this perfectly, there is no need to explain any more. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u78	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get through this incident. The Bureau only reiterates the request for possible restraint in a debate which must be alive, which must be contrasted, in fact, within a parliamentary debate and in its own terms, of course. Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regarding banking supervision and problems that we have all been detecting over the years, there are three ways to deal with the problem, two by negative and one by positive. The first way to deal with this problem by negative is to deny it. Unfortunately, throughout history, this has happened several times and often happened to the top managers themselves in this sector. We do not ignore that much of the problems of banking supervision in Portugal began with a Governor of the Banco de Portugal who thought it was all right, Governor Victor Constáncio, who was at the origin of much of these problems, who denied them until the end of their duties and who was unable to contribute in any way to correct them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u81	There is now a new way to deal with this problem by the negative, again starred by the Socialist Party, which is to say that the problem exists, but it is so great that it cannot be solved now. Mr Eurico Brillante Dias came to say « more for Christmas», i.e. « until the end of the year we will bring proposals ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u82	The proposal is from the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u83	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, who heard him in the opposition and who heard him now! When we had the same position in the BPN Committee of Inquiry when we were in opposition, as we had in the BES Committee of Inquiry, when we were in the government, and they tell us that in some way we had different actions, we can answer that we have acted. You already said that in the opposition the problems were solved one day and now they are sending us back by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u84	Have you spent four years in the government and now you can't wait four months for the resolution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u85	Mr President, the problem is great and therefore the best thing is to start solving it. This is the third way of dealing with the problem, by positive presenting proposals. Those who oppose may say that they are not sufficient, with an obligation: if they consider them not sufficient, they present what is missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u87	And you have missed this call to present what you thought was not included in our proposals and, therefore, we want to know clearly, today, who thinks that making the appointment of supervisors more transparent is a good or bad idea. Who thinks that putting the various sovereignty bodies involved in the process brings greater assurances that this process is well conducted, will vote in favour or will vote against? Who do you think is able to take more steps in clarifying investors so that they are not mistaken at the counter of their banks, will vote against or vote in favour? Who thinks that more transparency is needed, even in the performance of the auditors when they act either as auditors or as consultants, so that there is no confusion between their performance on a paper and on the other, will vote against or vote in favour?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u88	Thank you for finishing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u89	Mr President, in conclusion, we will see who has a negative attitude to face the problem and who has a positive position and who is able, even if not in agreement with everything, to contribute to a consensus. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u90	The debate on the first item on our agenda is thus closed. We move on to the second point, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No. 486 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Dematerialization of manuals and other school materials ( The Greens ). For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic a project which aims to enshrine in the law the principle of dematerialization of school textbooks. in this sense, we amend Law No. 47 / 2006, which is precisely the law that defines the system of evaluation, certification and adoption of school textbooks of basic and secondary education. It is not the first time that the Greens present a bill for this purpose to the Assembly of the Republic. We also did it in the past legislature. Unfortunately, the project was plummeted. at this moment, we are re-presenting in another way, it is true, of consecration of the principle through the amendment of this law. What we expect is this time, the ladies and gentlemen. Members are associated with this objective, so that then the Assembly of the Republic itself can take over for itself — or even through the Government — the regulation of this principle and the effective recognition of the effective dematerialization of school textbooks. We do so primarily for three reasons. One of them is related to environmental reasons. In fact, saving paper is saving our forest. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know that due to the mass production of paper and paper pulp, the forest in Portugal was completely adapted to this industry, with continuous stains of monocultures of fast growing species, including eucalyptus. Just to serve this industry, there was some decharacterization of the forest, making it less resistant to fires and with significant impacts on biodiversity. For environmental reasons, dematerialization of school textbooks is therefore an important step. On the other hand — the second reason — we believe that the recognition of the principle of dematerialization of school textbooks can help to generalize the principle of free school textbooks. We know that Portuguese families are the ones who in Europe spend the most on their children's education and, in fact, withdrawing costs from families is, in our perspective, fundamental. The third reason for the presentation of our project here today is being discussed is even a petition that has already entered the Assembly of the Republic, petition No 271 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) which brought to Parliament the concern of the excessive weight of backpacks that children and young people take to schools. For here, too, is a principle that can help to reduce this problem that concerns so many parents and so many officials in the educational community.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u92	Mr Ilda Araújo Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens propose an amendment to Article 2. the Act No. 47 / 2006, of 28 August, specifically the introduction of dematerialization in the lines of action of the State in the realization of the guiding principles of the evaluation, certification and adoption of school textbooks. in the opinion of the CDS, the proposal is too disruptive to be treated linearly. It is not now the growing trend of the generalization of virtual learning environments in our schools— teachers and students already make intensive use of digital educational resources made available by the various publishers who, cumulatively with the acquisition of paper manuals, provide access to the digital manual. The schools are, in general, now equipped with good technological structures. The use of computer or interactive boards, the use of tablets or even smartphones — these less common in classrooms — make the difference as support and as mediators of new ways of providing meaningful learning. The interactive digital manual is indeed a change factor when based on active learning environments, which are desired and which, generalizing with the appropriate support equipment, may involve changing the paradigm of teaching and learning. Therefore, it deserves serious consideration to provide the school community with a comprehensive technological solution, which fits the different learning contexts, either in the classroom or in the autonomous study. However, it is also necessary to weigh and evaluate the impacts of its universalisation. It is that the goodness of claim may result not in attenuation, but in discrimination and in the empowerment of social and economic differences. The existence of pilot projects in this area is public knowledge. They must be properly concluded and evaluated, in particular with regard to the intended impacts and objectives. Indeed, it is undeniable that there are indications that show advantages in the dimension of motivation and the acquisition of transversal competences. However, according to a study by the Portuguese Catholic University, the impact on learning and, more specifically, the relevance in school results is not yet sufficiently conclusive. It is not enough technology, space and students for learning to take place. The reality is not so, there are other dimensions to consider. For example: a study conducted in 10 European (including Portugal) and Asian countries, conducted at the London School of Economics by the Department of Media and Communications, concluded that handwriting and reading—books or teaching material—in paper facilitates concentration and provides greater absorption of information. It is intended to do more and better with less, teach and learn better, but a process of simple replacement of paper manuals by manuals in digital support requires prudence and weighting. In addition, there will necessarily be weighting and weighing the investment in technological solutions. Schools will have to be prepared for a possible final step to have a system one to one by institutional action, either in an ideal policy of BYOD (Bring Your Own Device ), i.e., bring your own equipment, and, of course, to introduce new and appropriate educational methodologies and strategies. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u94	Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP advocates equal access to and success in school for all students, regardless of their economic and social status. The freeness of school textbooks is a significant step in achieving this equal opportunity and promotes advances in combating dropout and failure at school, in addition to being one of the most used elements in the teaching-learning process, although giving up some space due to technological developments and the increasing use of other means. Convicted of this reality, the PCP proposed, at the headquarters of State Budget for 2016, the progressive freeness of school textbooks for all students, in all compulsory schooling, as it, in addition to a fundamental instrument for learning, a real and significant relief of the high costs with which families face each beginning of school year. This measure was already implemented in 2016 / 2017 school year for students of 1. the year of 1. the basic education cycle and will be extended in 2017 and 2018 for all years of 1. the cycle. It is important to deepen and extend this measure to all compulsory education. As we say, technological evolution is a growing reality that cannot be squamated and that can also add considerable value in the teaching-learning process of children and young people. However, we express some concerns regarding the dematerialization of school materials because they are not fully ascertained the consequences that this measure may entail in the training of students and in their contact and relationship with the books. in fact, it is not fully studied the possible impacts of a situation of total dematerialization of books in relation to the importance of the traditional and pedagogical role of the book, as a physical object and promoter of reading, whose future should be cautious. Despite this, the possibility of developing content made available by the school, accessible to all students, which can be transmitted by computer, the closest and most attractive instrument for new generations, as well as the development of more specific pedagogical materials for children with special educational needs, can be a positive step, provided universality is guaranteed in their access. In short, the dematerialization of school materials alone closes potentials that we cannot neglect, but it is important to evaluate the impact of the proposal without precipitation so that a balance between benefits and risks can be achieved, as well as ensuring accessibility for all technologies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u96	Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have very different perspectives, proposals and evaluations in this Parliament as we can and should continue to improve education in Portugal. But there are subjects in which we all agree, in which we have all presented similar initiatives, in which we have already been able to consensualize a position and the matter now under discussion is one of them. I am not going to list here the initiatives that the Democratic Social Party has already presented in this Parliament on this subject, because this is not a point that distinguishes us but that unites us. It is not interesting to know who else proposed, but rather how to coordinate everything we have already proposed. It is consensual the importance of textbooks and school support materials as instruments of quality of education and educational success and successive governments were able to improve the scientific, pedagogical and didactic quality of school textbooks and their adequacy to the programs, goals or guidelines in force. It is consensual and recognized by the community that we have greatly improved the system of evaluation and certification of school textbooks, started in 2008 and 2009 and that we have improved in 2012 the period of validity of manuals, the mechanisms of reuse and, before the digital revolution, with the increasing dissemination and use of new technologies in teaching, we all know that the future will pass through the progressive dematerialization of these. The consensus on the progressive dematerialization of educational resources is undeniable. This is also one of the points which, I am sure, will include the legislative measures that will result from the working group set up within the Education Committee so that, in a timely and effective way, the excess weight of school backpacks can be combated. As rapporteur for the petition against the excessive weight of backpacks, I consider it very positive, being a good statement, the immediate adherence of all political parties to the challenge of, together and tuned in order to safeguard the health of our children, we find the best tools to solve the problem. That was the compromise we made before the representatives of more than 50 000 petitioners during the hearing we held this week. It is a work that begins now and that will go through analyzing, in an integrated way, the existing legal framework, listening to entities, and proposing concrete, realistic and sustainable measures, such as those of the lockers, the division of support books by fascicles or the gradual digitization of resources. We therefore thought that the initiative presented today by the Greens should be included as another contribution in this joint work on the revision and improvement of the existing legal framework, for which, of course, we count on the collaboration of this parliamentary group. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u98	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we appreciate the draft law of the Green Party on dematerialization of school textbooks. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes this legislative initiative. however, we are attentive to the non-replacement nature of digital educational resources vis-à-vis the school manual, as a fundamental didactic instrument, at least in the near future. It is important to understand that the digital does not guarantee by itself pedagogical innovation in practice, although dematerialization should enter as an ingredient in improving the quality of learning. As recommended in the National Reform Plan, within the framework of the innovation of the educational system, the adoption of a strategy based on the production and dissemination of digital educational resources is being met either through the Axis 2 of the National Digital Competencies Initiative e.2030 - Portugal INCODe.2030, recently presented by the Government, either through the training of the Educational Resources and Technology Team (ERTE ) of the Directorate-General for Education. At the same time, actions developed at the initiative of each school and group of schools are supported, whose contribution to the generalization of the use of digital educational resources is very relevant and factual. Support for these practices, in the logic of the principle of complementarity, stems, in addition to its inherent merit, from the finding that access to technological devices is not universal, given that it is not possible at this time to provide thousands of public schools with the necessary conditions and hardware for the equal use of digital educational resources by all students, but also from the verification of the lack of digital resources that have brought about real improvements in the quality of learning in all curricular areas, although the great progress in this field has been recognized over the last few years. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group highlights the importance of complementarity of the use of digital platforms and content, taking into account the current phase of knowledge and of infrastructure and technological maturity, and it must be a process that focuses much more on learning, which requires a much more comprehensive approach. And of course it is important to continue the policy of free manuals that is being applied by the government. We can't be afraid of change. Hand dematerializing requires that we do not lose sight of the most elementary designs of the public school. The reality tells us that resources and territories are unequal, as are their students, their populations. The dematerialization of the manuals has indeed to happen. But let us do so with the certainty of its success and in ongoing dialogue with all the participants in the educational process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u100	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The entry of the digital age into schools is not our choice, it is a reality that schools will have to deal with, with which teachers will have to deal, with which we will all have to deal with, because students already deal with it every day and it is to them that the school has to adapt. This does not mean that it is an easy reality. The dematerialization of school materials is a very complex subject, with pedagogical and didactic implications, which have already been raised here, but also with other implications, with other kinds of cost benefits and, as the Greens have remembered, also at the level of environmental sustainability. The Left Block agrees that the dematerialization of school textbooks is included as a guiding principle of the choice and the evaluation and certification regime of school textbooks, but we are today discussing in the Assembly of the Republic, as already mentioned here, a petition on the weight of student backpacks, which has been signed by 50,000 people, which the Assembly takes very seriously, because it acknowledges that there are many problems in this backpack; there are health problems of these children, but there are also problems of school and there are also the profits of publishers. When we look at the student backpack we have to understand that there are several ways to solve this problem. There is the question of lockers, which is an investment that has to be made, but there is also the question of homework that weighs students' backpack, even if there are lockers, because they force them to take their materials home due to the enormous amount of work they have to do at home, beyond the hours they spend at school. There is also the question of, for example, the introduction of fascicles or the modification of grammar of school textbooks, and here also comes the question of dematerialization as an option, as a resource, to change how we today view school textbooks in schools. This is not an easy theme and the Left Block has drawn attention to the cost problem of families in this transition. We believe that the weight should not be removed from the students' backpacks to weigh more in the family pockets when purchasing these manuals. We remember that the EUR 140 million of publishers' profits cannot go from traditional manuals to digital manuals and, above all, that cost cannot go on top of families. This is a complex issue in this regard, the Left Block proposed the establishment of a working group to examine all proposals that may come to the Assembly of the Republic and all recommendations that may be made to the Government in this regard. It is due to the existence of this working group that the Left Block does not present an initiative on this subject today. We want to discuss, hear and make this debate comprehensively, in an attempt to get this working group to reach some conclusions and a few majority to then present the necessary recommendations to the Government. Certainly, the introduction of this guiding principle of dematerialization of school textbooks will be part of this working group and its proposals and that is why we follow it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u102	For a new intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank all the considerations that have been made and even the warnings that have been raised. The Greens would never present a proposal in the Assembly of the Republic which resulted in discrimination of children and young people in schools. The discrimination that exists today stems from the fact that many parents are unable to buy school textbooks from their children, who thus start the school year without school textbooks when the colleague on the side already has them. Therefore, when we talk about discrimination it is important that we can see what reality the previous government could not solve and that even promoted Attention, the Greens do not want children to stop writing on paper, as it is obvious, and the National Reading Plan has a fundamental role in handling the book, dealing with the book and the level of the literature itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the truth is that children today, because of programmes aimed at lending school textbooks, cannot fully use the school manual, they cannot write in it, for example. So there is a whole set of considerations, with pros and cons, that we should consider. What we propose to the Assembly of the Republic is the principle of dematerialization of school textbooks. Knowing how we will achieve it will be the next step we have to take at the level of the discussion. We know we have that goal. How it is that it is going to be done progressively, how it effectively materializes, this, we will discuss later. In view of some of the interventions that have been made here, I reiterate that the Greens do not want to tie this bill to the petition that has already entered. What motivated this bill, which, I repeat, aims only to establish the principle of dematerialization, goes far beyond that petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u104	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u105	Our first objective is environmental and establishing this principle is fundamental. We will also participate in the projects that will take place, let us say, of the very worthy initiative of the petition that has entered into this matter. But this bill presented by The Greens is to establish a principle that goes far beyond what is enshrined in the petition. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u106	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the third and last point of our agenda before the vote, which consists in the examination of petitions Nos 179/ XIII ( 2 ). a ) — They request that the parish of Milheiros de Poiares be integrated into the municipality of São João da Madeira ( Daniel José Henriques Almeida and others) and 245 / XIII ( 2. a ) — They request that the parish of Milheiros de Poiares remain in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira (Emídio Ferreira dos Santos Sousa et al.). The Bureau does not register and therefore requests the parliamentary groups to sign up. [[Pause.]] Mr José Luís Ferreira spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I address my first words, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, to greet the citizens who have subscribed to the two petitions that are under discussion and who, although they shed on the same subject, nevertheless have different objectives. I greet the subscribers of the petition « for the integration of the parish of Milheirós de Poiares in the municipality of São João da Madeira », as the subscribers of the petition« Not to the disappointment of Miléiros de Poiares of the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira ». On the subject that today thousands of citizens bring the discussion, The Greens remember that the creation of Milheiros de Poiares is rooted in more than 500 years of history, history that is always lived and shared in a context of unity in a municipality, that of Santa Maria da Feira. in fact, the territorial configuration of the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira remains unchanged since the census of 1930, therefore, in the seventh general census of the population. In our view, they have not occurred since then—and continue to occur—any justification or basis of a historical, cultural, geographical, economic or financial nature or other which supports or sustains the amputation of the present Santa Maria da Feira territory. We may even consider it legitimate that we seek to respond to the desires of the populations of Milheiros de Poiares, but the question, in our view, cannot be seen out of a broader context and therefore out of the context of the council, because the unannouncement of a parish of any municipality has no implications only in this parish, has implications at least at the level of the whole council where the parish is located. in the specific case of Milheirós de Poiares, its possible disappointment is a matter that concerns not only the inhabitants of this parish as well as the 140 000 inhabitants of the entire municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, because it is concerned the unity of the municipality in its territorial, demographic, cultural and socio-economic dimensions. For the Greens, the case of the parish of Milheiros de Poiares, as in other cases any other process of this nature, can only be considered if and when the populations involved and their local bodies are in agreement with the de-exemption of a particular council for their integration into another council. This is not the case, even because, as it is known, the Municipal Assembly of Santa Maria da Feira has already decided to reject the integration of Milheiros de Poiares in the municipality of São João da Madeira. This data would only be sufficient for us not to follow the petition that intends to integrate the parish of Milheiros de Poiares in the municipality of São João da Madeira, at least in the molds in which this proposal is being placed, that is, without at least, consulting and subsequent favourable position of the assemblies of the two municipalities and of the parish of Milheiros.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u108	Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz spoke for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this speech by greeting the petitioners, the thousands of men and women who wanted to address this House in an exercise of active and involved citizenship, which is important to enhance. This year they complete 20 years on the date of presentation of a bill, signed by a PS officer and by one of the CDS, which aimed at the integration of Milheiros de Poiares, which is part of the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, in the municipality of São João da Madeira. in the explanatory statement of the then bill can read, referring to the links between Milheiros and São João da Madeira, that such a transfer would now correspond to the consecration of rights of a situation that already exists, in fact, and no one surprises anyone. It is basically this special relationship between that parish and that council that petitioners come to take up in the text that they present to this House and nobody believes that in democracy they can disregard or ignore the results of a local referendum, recognized by the Constitutional Court, however it happened, as well as, in their view, the expression of popular will translated into the suffrage of electoral programs presented where this issue was introduced. The value of the unconditional defence of unity and integrity of a council, whatever it is, to be democratically operational, always lacks to be claimed by those on behalf of whom it is supposed to be engulfed and not as a form of imposition of one's will on each other. It is, after all, that or also that which this petition demands. In October, the voters of Miléiros de Poiares will be called to manifest their choices still within this authentic picture. This does not mean, however, a clarification or reaffirmation of positions before the various choices that stand for the future, on the contrary, the presentation of this petition will appear in a clarification, which is expected to be serene and clarified, as has always been and can never fail to be, of the various options that open to Milheiros de Poiares after the suffrage of October and that will certainly not fail to find expression in the various electoral programmes. Thus, this Parliament's commitment can only be to come, then, to allow Mileiros de Poiares a consequent normative translation with the manifestation of this will made by a referendum in the sense of that will become a certainty in the future of this parish. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u110	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the subscribers of both petitions that are under discussion today. There have always been many reasons put forward by many petitioners, in many petitions, to change the configuration of the territorial boundaries of various councils, which is normal in a country, i.e. that people want to review the way in which, territorially, administratively organized themselves and at the level of local power. These arguments are of the order of the subjective, historical and cultural interpretation or of the concrete interest that occurs at every moment. however, the petition aimed at the integration of the parish of Milheiros de Poiares into the municipality of São João da Madeira has a quality difference in relation to all the others we normally appreciate in Parliament. The petition in question has an objective criterion in which it is based, which is the popular will expressed in 2012 in an absolutely clear way, through a binding referendum recognized by the Constitutional Court, which had the widely majority expression of the population of the parish of Miléiros de Poiares in favor of the integration of this parish into the municipality of São João da Madeira. After this referendum, this will has been reiterated in particular in the parish assembly of Milheiros de Poiares, where all political forces have supported the integration of this parish into the municipality of São João da Madeira. It is also interesting to note that, in the case of this claim being attended, the council of São João da Madeira, which will receive the parish of Milheiros de Poiares, has already decided in the municipal organ itself to pronounce itself in favour of this integration. Today we are talking about whether or not we want to recognize the legitimacy of this claim and the majority will of the people of this parish. from the Left Block, we want to reiterate our full availability for, at the first time, and in conjunction with the movement of Milheiros de Poiares and with the parliamentary political forces, we find a date to move forward with a bill that can finally allow to achieve the democratic aspirations freely expressed and widely majority, of the people of Milheiros de Poiares by integrating this parish into the municipality of São João da Madeira. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u112	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the petitioners who have subscribed to one and another petition, in fact petitions for divergent matters, not to say even opposed, which we value, even more, this exercise of citizenship which has mobilized many of our fellow citizens and which therefore deserve our respect and our greeting for this exercise of citizenship. On behalf of the CDS and as President of the Parliamentary Group, I have had the opportunity to receive subscribers as well as authorships from both petitions and to tell them, frankly, with transparency, with loyalty, what I am going to mention today and which in no way has changed. What I mean, very clearly, is this: firstly, the CDS is not, nor has it ever been, indifferent to local referendums and much less to expressions of popular will made, validated and even meaningful expression; and secondly, the CDS is not equally indifferent to the moment these petitions, these claims are being debated and intended to be executed. from where, and to be clear, the CDS is available to evaluate the integration of Milheirós de Poiares in São João da Madeira, as decided in local referendum, but is not available to do it to five months of already marked elections. Therefore, we believe in popular will, but we also believe in electoral stability. Furthermore, on behalf of the CDS, this was the position which I forwarded to the petitioners, this was the position which the members of the CDS of Aveiro took at these meetings, this was the position which I transmitted to the authorships of São João da Madeira, to the authorships of Miléiros de Poiares and to the authorships of Feira, and this is today the position which I transmit to the Chamber and to the petitioners once again with transparency. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u114	Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I now begin by welcoming and complimenting the petitioners of both petitions relating to the parishioners of Poiares. These petitions relate to each of them, contrary to the fact that one seeks to integrate the parish of Milheiros de Poiares into the municipality of São João da Madeira and the other aims to keep this parish in its current municipality, that of Santa Maria da Feira. On this issue it is important, in our view, to take into account three points: the first point concerns the local referendum held in 2012 and where the will of the population of Miléiros de Poiares is expressed, we respect the referendum and I fear that it will be taken into account for our reflection; the second point concerns local local local bodies, and here we believe that it is necessary and fundamental that there is an involvement of all, both the municipal and the local bodies of France, and that it is essential that agreements and points of convergence are drawn up in this regard;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u116	...the third point has to do with the administrative changes which cannot be made alone or to the part, but must be incorporated in a reflection on a global administrative reform. We understand that these three points are very important for an analysis, which must be done and which must be serious, and for a reflection which should necessarily be broad about the matter in question in these petitions. We understand the hopes that the population of Milheiros de Poiares may feel and the need to see concrete problems solved, particularly those in the road network, in the service of public transport, in the quality of services, in the rates of connection of the water network and sanitation, among others, with which the population is faced daily. We understand that the resolution of these problems goes through both the demand action of the population and a change of policies that means a response to the problems of sense. Thus, as it has always been, the PCP will continue to defend not only better living conditions for the population of the parish of Milheiros de Poiares but also to be next to the populations of all the parish in the struggle for better living conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u117	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to greet the 5300 citizens who subscribe to the petition that advocate the integration of the parish of Milheiros de Poiares into the municipality of São João da Madeira and also the more than 25 000 citizens who subscribe to the petition that defend the maintenance of that same parish in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira. I also address a very special compliment to Mr. President of the Municipal Chamber of Santa Maria da Feira and Mr. President of the Freguesia Board of Thousands of Poiares, who, together with other petitioners, have honored us with their presence in the House of Democracy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issues relating to identity, belonging, permanence, change or change, when associated with a territory, are invariably delicate issues that require special care of analysis, weighting and reflection prior to any decision. As far as the positions in question are concerned, Parliament is called upon to intervene, to legislate in a certain sense on the basis of a unilateral declaration of will. What they ask us would eventually be easier to achieve if it were to depart from a consensus base as to the end of the agreement of interests, of convergence of wills, but that is not the framework with which we are confronted. We are faced with a background of divergence as to the will expressed by the different indigenous bodies directly concerned and which, constitutionally, represent in the will of voters an even more seemingly non-transponsible divergence. This circumstance aggravates the delicacy of the issue that the local consultation in 2012 does not exceed and where the parliamentary history, at least during the democratic period, does not record background. Parliament has already legislated, and legislation, on the correction of administrative limits and the amendment of denominations of fregueses; it has already legislated on the transfer of fregueses to a council, with a view to the creation of a new council; it has already legislated on the division of a parish to create another parish; it has already legislated on the exemption of fregueses within the same council; but it has never, ever, legislated on the transfer in its entirety of a parish from one council to another. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot help but mention the fact that we are less than six months away from the forthcoming elections, whose procedures are inherent to them, and many are demanding, demanding, demanding and demanding stability. All of this, Mr President and Mr and Mr. Members, the fact that no comprehensive territorial or autarchical reform is under way, or that there is a prior legal regime and framework of the matter, which, from our point of view, rightly exacerbate the delicacy and difficulty of assessing the petitioner. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u119	Mrs. Members, with no further inscriptions, the examination of petitions Nos 179 and 245 / XIII ( 2. ( a). Since the voting period is scheduled for 12 hours, we will take a short break. The session is interrupted. [[It was 11 hours and 41 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the plenary meeting resumed. [[It was 12 hours.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to restart our work and, before we start the voting period, we will proceed to the review of the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 195 presences, to which seven are added (DPD Members Carlos Abreu Amorim, Paulo Rios de Oliveira and Pedro Passos Coelho, BE Heitor de Sousa, Joana Mortágua and Jorge Duarte Costa and MP of PCP Paula Santos ), performing 202 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting No 265 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the explosion in a pyrotechnic plant in Planes, municipality of Lamego ( PS, CDS-PP, BE, The Greens and PAN ). Mr Pedro Alves will proceed to the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u120	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « A violent explosion occurred last April 4 in a pyrotechnic plant in Avãos, municipality of Lamego, caused eight fatalities, causing great dismay in Portugal. This is undoubtedly a moment of deep suffering and great sadness for their families, friends and the entire Lascian community. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, regrets the tragic accident and presents to the family and friends of the fatal victims and to the entire community the most sorry condolences and expresses its deep regret for the success of the event'.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 270 / XIII ( 2. a ) — Despite the tragedy in the Colombian city of Mocoa ( PSD ), which Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote is as follows: « last Friday, March 31, the heavy rain that fell on the city of Mocoa, in southern Colombia, caused a landslide that led to the death of almost 300 people, of which about half are smaller, a large number of injured and many missing. The city with about 450 000 inhabitants was devastated by a sea of stones, mud and debris that caused great destruction and led the authorities to declare the state of emergency in an attempt to expedite the rescue operations and help the victims. The meteorological phenomenon that fell over this region resulted in floods in the Mocoa, Sangoyaco and Mulatos rivers, whose waters transhipped into the city and caused a scenario of almost complete destruction of the city's fundamental infrastructures, such as bridges, communications and supply of electricity and gas. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, decides to present its most heartfelt wishes for the victims of this tragedy and to direct their solidarity to the Colombian Government and to the inhabitants of Mocoa."
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u123	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote no 270 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 271 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Gilbert Baker ( PAN ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote is as follows: « He died last March 30th the American artist Gilbert Baker, creator of the rainbow flag that became a symbol of LGBT pride. Born in Kansas in 1951, Gilbert served as a soldier in the United States Army, and was moved to San Francisco in the early 1970s. Here, along with a growing number of activists, contributed greatly to the beginning of a global movement for the rights of trans, gay, lesbian and bisexual people, alongside personalities like Harvey Milk, Cleve Jones or Rome Guy. It was after learning how to sew, and during preparations for San Francisco Gay Freedom Day Parade, that Gilbert Baker suggested the creation of a flag that brought together the various struggles waged by citizens and citizens on the streets of San Francisco, at a time of great tension and repression exercised by U.S. police forces and in which LGBT people had no right or protection. The original eight colors of this flag then came to represent precisely a pride that arose in opposition to the shame, hatred, violence, discrimination and silence to which they were, and are, subject to LGBT people. During the years that followed, the rainbow flag became the symbol of diversity and the struggle for equality and non-discrimination. Enlarging an rainbow flag is even more and more an act of courage, a moment of release and exit of the closet, a sign of resilience and a feeling that it is in fact on the right side of history. Its creation—which has not been exhausted only in this flag, but in decades of artistic and political activism—is today more than an object, it is also the rod that points us to a continuous and endless path by ensuring that no citizen or citizen will suffer discrimination by their sexual orientation or gender identity. Gilbert Baker and his rainbow flag will continue to mark and guide future generations. It will be our duty to extend it too, following the path of equality to the very least contribution we can offer. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 7 April 2017, expresses its deepest regret at this sad event and pays tribute to Gilbert Baker, expressing his deepest condolences to his family, friends and the entire LGBT community ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u125	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u126	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u127	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u128	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u129	Mr. Deputy, it's registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u130	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u131	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u132	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u133	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 277 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Sentence and regret by the attack of St Petersburg ( President of RA, PS, PSD, PCP, BE, The Greens, PAN, and CDS-PP ). To read the vote, Mr. Idália Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u134	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Less than two weeks after the London attacks, terrorism came to the city of St. Petersburg, a symbol par excellence of a European Russia, open to culture and the world. in the afternoon of Monday, on the subway of this Russian city, the barbaric act of a suicide bombist of Russian nationality caused the death of 14 people, causing 51 injured, many of whom are still hospitalized. Fortunately, the Russian authorities arrived in time to deactivate another explosive device at another subway station. If doubts remain, this attack has shown that the complexity of the terrorist phenomenon requires equally complex responses. Terrorism is a threat that does not know borders and therefore deserves a cooperative, comprehensive and integrated response, in which the Portuguese Republic is deeply committed. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation of the attack and conveys its greatest sense of concern to the families of the victims, Russia and the Russian people».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u135	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 266 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the National Reading Plan 2027 ( PS and PAN ). To read the vote, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u136	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The National Reading Plan (NLP) is a national political priority. The central objective of the National Reading Plan is to raise the levels of literacy, promote the taste for reading and the pleasure of reading of the general population and, in particular, of young people. during the last decade, the results achieved by the National Reading Plan, since it was launched in 2006, reveal a sustained evolution that it is important to continue through the strengthening of public policies of consolidation of the work performed, the scope of new public and age groups and the cross-section of the various areas of knowledge. To design the National Reading Plan for the next decade — National Reading Plan 2027 — is to reaffirm the strategic importance of developing reading skills as a fundamental condition for democratic access to information, knowledge of science and cultural use. The implementation of the National Plan of Reading 2027 is essential for the construction of a free and cohesive society. The inter-ministerial committee set up by the XXI Constitutional Government to implement and follow the National Plan of Reading 2027, involving representatives of the areas of local authorities, culture, science, technology and higher education and education, assumes the development of an integrated and articulated policy for the promotion of multiple literature, including cultural, scientific, digital and technological, in respect for diversity and the valorization of the different tastes and profiles of readers. The centrality of public policies to promote reading calls on all institutional partners and civil society to make this social commitment, which is of all nature, as a national design. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 7 April 2017, welcomes the launch of the National Plan of Reading 2027 and reaffirms its commitment to public policies for the enhancement of knowledge and culture ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us join the first group of votes for which debate has been requested. Each parliamentary group may use the time it wants, knowing that, in all three subjects addressed by the votes — Syria, Venezuela and the Basque Country — it will not exceed 4 minutes. The first group consists of votes 267 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the attack on chemical weapons in Syria ( PSD and PS ) and 273 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the continuation of the aggression against the people of Syria and the destabilization operations with a view to sabotaging the peace negotiations ( PCP and PS Deputies Luís Graça ). Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We hope that no parliamentary group will stop condemning the decision of the US Administration of Donald Trump to attack the Syrian Arab Republic, a decision that closes the danger of a greater military escalation, raising to another level of aggression that has been directed against that sovereign State for six years. After organizing, armed, funded and supporting terrorist groups that led the civil war to Syria, the U.S. Administration decided to once again show that it intends to impose its world domain by force of arms and with the threat of war. It is now repeated with Syria what we saw happening with Iraq and Libya, using identical pretexts and misinformation campaigns. Unproven accusations are repeated regarding the use of chemical weapons, without even allowing the proper and impartial investigation required by the Syrian Government itself, recalling the invocation of weapons of mass destruction during the aggression against Iraq.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u140	The UN, its Charter, its principles and rules of operation are repeated. The violation of international law is repeated with the bombing of a sovereign state, the threat of destruction of the country and the violation of the most fundamental rights of the Syrian people. This bombing of Syria makes it clear to those who serve and are behind the use of chemical weapons and their use, as a pretext for the escalation of war, facts that we condemn without any hesitation. It is the duty of the Assembly of the Republic to reject the propaganda of war, to condemn the war of aggression against Syria and its people, to condemn the use of chemical weapons and the provocation and lies about its use, to call for peace and respect for the rights of the Syrian people to sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, and to demand, indeed, the clearance of responsibilities for the crimes committed and violations of human rights committed in the context of the aggression against that country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u141	Mr Sérgio Azevedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The attack on northern Syria using chemical weapons is one of the most serious episodes of this long conflict. It reveals a faceless cowardice, defined in an insistent death of men, women and children. This chemical weapon attack called for what is worse in humanity. In addition to the unacceptable violation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, it is another reflection of the barbarity, of disrespect for the most basic human rights and a repulsive continuous action that the Syrian people continue to be targeted. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u143	This barbarity is another serious violation of international law which, under no pretext, be it geographical or economic, the international community can close its eyes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u144	in Syria, since 2011 more than 300,000 people have died. The international community remains impatience and serene in a game of pass-ins that resolves nothing and everything allows at the expense of the lives of the innocent. If it is true that the Member of the CFP says that this conflict is not resolved by unilateral actions under the pretext of humanitarian intervention which in everything violates international law, it is also true, and that is what he should also recognise, that this conflict is not resolved either by continuing the blockade of the Assad regime and its international allies to the work of the international organisations that put an end to this barbarity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u145	Mrs. Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party is associated with the vote of condemnation for the chemical weapons attack in Syria. This is the biggest chemical weapon attack perpetuated in that country. More than 80 people have already died and hundreds of others have been affected. The Syrian people have been massacred since the beginning of the conflicts and barbarously have been the subject of successive and abhorrent attacks that have victimized thousands of civilians in particular children. This action with chemical weapons is another unacceptable violation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons which cannot go unpunished to the international community. The use of chemical weapons must end immediately. For us, all these acts that constitute violations of human rights and attacks on human rights and human life will always be condemned because they are contrary to the humanist values we defend. The PS condemns this chemical attack on Syrian society, calling for the end of violence against innocent civilians and the intervention of the international community in order to put an end to this severe, devastating and prolonged conflict. We therefore associate ourselves with this vote and send all our solidarity to the Syrian people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u147	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In short, what happened in Syria was an attack on chemical weapons that killed more than 70 people and more than 20 children. I repeat, it was a chemical weapon attack that killed 20 children. This is unacceptable, regardless of the regime, regardless of the point of the world, regardless of everything that may be involved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u149	All right! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u150	It's unacceptable! Unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u151	Who was it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u152	And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please note your inconvenience, because you are faced with an event of these rather than joining the voice of all to condemn this unacceptable attack,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u153	Who was it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u154	... they come to say, once again, blocked in 1940 or 1917, «the blame is on the United States ». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u155	Who was it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u156	Shame on you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Have shame, because what is required of those who have the least respect for human rights...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u157	Who was it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u158	...is condemning these kinds of events.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u159	Who was it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u160	Of course, in the Syrian conflict, there is no guilt on either side and there are no innocents on the other side,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u161	...of course, sir. Members, that the international community has to resolve this conflict, but this has nothing to do with condemning an unignoble attack, a heinous attack,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u162	Who was it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u163	... an attack on weapons which are prohibited and which must continue to be prohibited from an international point of view. [[Who was it?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u164	Your position is a shame, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u165	I'm still such a friend of Putin's yesterday! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u166	We'll still know the truth about all this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u167	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block frontally condemns the chemical weapons attack this week on Syrian civilians. We also condemn the escalation of the war we are witnessing with the same frontality and vehemence, which includes, inherently, this attack by the American troops. Between Bashar al-Assad, Putin and Trump there are no innocents. The innocent are the civilians who have died in a war, that, indeed, unignoble, that we, since the first hour, have condemned, for several times, here, in this House of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u169	That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all our solidarity with the Syrian people. A strong appeal for the peace and defence of civil rights, including Syrian children, and a request — the minimum requirement of all those who defend human rights — which is that we do not now have in Syria a new escalation of arms, a new escalation of war worldwide. [[Congratulations on BE and on the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u170	A second intervention was also made on the Syrian subject, Mr João Oliveira. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The use of chemical weapons must be condemned, and is condemned,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u172	...and what happened in Syria has to be investigated. Moreover, the investigation that the Syrian Government itself has requested, with the intervention of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons ( OPAQ ), must be carried out, against the obstacles that are being placed on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u173	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u174	And this condemnation of the use of chemical weapons must be an element of affirmation without hesitation. The different thing is to give by concluding what cannot be concluded. And what Mr Telmo Correia did here was to draw conclusions from a research that is not done, that does not exist. Mr Telmo Correia, I would like to say the following: we are still waiting for clarification in this House of the Republic of the weapons of mass destruction, on which there was evidence, that there was no explanation of what we have already demanded and to which Durão Barroso and Paulo Portas have fled. [[PCP, Os Verdes and BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa applauded.]] If what you are doing today is embarking again on the pretexts used by the United States to justify a new war of aggression, know that they will again count on the opposition of the CFP. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on these two votes on Syria, which have been the subject of discussion. We begin by voting No 267 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation by attack on chemical weapons in Syria ( PSD and PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] [[The attack on the city of Khan Cheikhoun in northern Syria will have caused more than 70 deaths, including more than 20 children and an undetermined number of wounded. This was another episode of the sad history of crimes committed in the Syrian conflict, crimes that end up having neither face nor declared author but which always result in the death of innocent civilians and the worsening of the Syrian tragedy. The use of chemical weapons constitutes an unacceptable violation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and a further reflection of the barbarity of which the Syrian population has been a victim for so many years. Unfortunately, in Syria they continue to be used in impunity and with high costs for defenceless populations. This barbarous attack cannot go through again clearly and the international community cannot continue, in accordance with geographical or economic interests and conveniences, to close its eyes to such demonstrations of indifference to the value of human life and the rights of the peoples enshrined in international law. Since 2011 the Syrian conflict has caused more than 300,000 deaths and a large number of injuries, displaced persons and refugees. Since 2011 the international community has been attending and participating in a game of guilt exchange that does not solve and everything covers and always allows for the cost of innocent lives. The time has come for serious investigation into what is happening in Syria and a strong position of the international community, through the UN Security Council, which prevents such attacks against populations. The Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad cannot continue to prevent the investigation of these crimes. Neither the Syrian regime nor its international allies. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, decides to present a vote of condemnation for the chemical attack on the Syrian city of Khan Cheikhoun, calling for the end of violence against innocent civilians and for the intervention of the international community to clear up the whole truth about what happened in this city in northern Syria. At the same time, the Assembly of the Republic presents its deepest condolences and its solidarity with the Syrian populations affected by this attack.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u176	We turn to the vote on vote No 273 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the continuation of the aggression against the people of Syria and destabilization operations aimed at undermining peace negotiations ( PCP and PS Deputies Luís Graça ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstains from BE and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: For six years now, the Arab Republic of Syria and its people have been victims of an operation of destabilization and war of aggression, which — on the path of aggression and destruction of Iraq and Libya — disregarding the most fundamental rights of the Syrian people and international law, aims to destroy the Syrian State, with its sovereign, independent, multicultural and pan-Arab position. A war of aggression perpetrated by armed groups — promoted by the United States and its allies in Europe and the Middle East — who are responsible for heinous crimes, brutal violations of human rights, death, suffering and destruction, millions of displaced persons and refugees. At the same time as negotiating efforts are being made, under international mediation, for the restoration of peace, the intensification of destabilization actions perpetrated by those who intend to sabotage the process of dialogue and continue the war of aggression on the Syrian people is evident. Recent events, marked by terrorist attacks against Syrian institutions and populations, particularly in Damascus, which have caused dozens of deaths and hundreds of injuries, and by the death of dozens of people in territories controlled by the so-called Al-Nusra Front (bound to al-Qaeda), deserve the greatest repudiation and require serious and impartial clearance of responsibilities, moreover, as required by the Syrian authorities, in particular the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session: Condemns the war of aggression against Syria and its people, supports the efforts for peace and calls for respect for the right of the Syrian people to sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Arab Republic of Syria, in compliance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations; Demands a serious and impartial clearance of responsibilities for the crimes and violations of human rights occurring in the context of the aggression against the Arab Republic of Syria.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u177	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u178	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u179	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on vote No 267 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u180	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u181	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u182	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u183	Mr President, I just want to inform you that Mr Diogo Leon and I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u184	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 268 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings to the National Selection of Sub-20 by Rugby ( PSD, PS and PAN ), which will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was last April 1 in Bucharest, that Portugal was consecrated European champion of Sub-20 by Rugby thanks to the excellent performance of the Portuguese selection in Rugby Europe U20 Championship. The excellent result obtained, the extraordinary team spirit and the motivation demonstrated in this Iberian finish guaranteed the selection of sub-20 the right to participate, between August 25 and September 10, in the World Championship—World Rugby U20 Trophy, proof that will be disputed in Uruguay. The conquest of the European of sub-20, achieved by Portugal, at a time of victory over Spain, fills us all with pride and is undoubtedly a great stimulus for Portuguese sportsmen who deserve the opportunity to continue to show their value. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its joy and welcomes this sporting success achieved, thus associating itself with the feeling of national recognition for this conquest, greeting the National Selection of Sub-20 by Rugby present in this European championship — athletes, selectors, trainers and technical team — by the excellent demonstration of its sporting value and by the way they dignified Portugal. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u186	Let us then vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following two votes will also be the subject of joint debate, namely votes Nos 269 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repudiation of the actions of interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and of solidarity with the Venezuelan people ( PCP ) and 272 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Of condemnation and concern about the instability situation in Venezuela ( CDS-PP ). You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has been the victim of recurrent actions of interference and destabilization, including campaigns of misinformation and manipulation of public opinion,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... that aim to call into question the democratic and progressive process,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... of sovereign affirmation and cooperation, which has been played by this Latin American country. Actions with the convivence of sectors that in Venezuela and the United States have never accepted the political, economic, social and cultural progress achieved in this country in the last 18 years. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] in this sense, the PCP Parliamentary Group presents a vote repudiating the actions of political, economic and social interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and reaffirms the right of the Venezuelan people to decide sovereignly on their path of development free of any external and peaceful interferences and pressures. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u188	Mr. José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to Venezuela, the PSD here expresses the position it expressed in this House on the previous presentation of two votes on this subject, from the very outset our solidarity with the Portuguese community in that country, which, for us, is absolutely central. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u190	We have, in Venezuela, close to 1 million Portuguese and Luso-descendants who deserve all our solidarity. [[PSD applause.]] Secondly, we respect, of course, Venezuela's sovereignty...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u191	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u192	...in everything where the fundamental principles of democracy and the rule of law are not at stake, which could have happened in recent times. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u193	Finally, it is essential for us to have an active presence of the Portuguese Government in the diplomatic relationship with the Venezuelan Government, in order to develop all possible actions that can defend the Portuguese people there. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, precisely because of these principles, I cannot fail to express here our profound strangeness at the fact that the vote of the Portuguese Communist Party does not make any reference to the problems that the Portuguese community is experiencing in Venezuela. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Does this occur by mistake or will it be intentional? Normally, in these things, the Communist Party is not wrong, so there is no intention here. We are thus aware that the ideological internationalism of the PCP does not include Portuguese and Portuguese communities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] It's unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the treatment provided by the CFP to the Portuguese of the diaspora and shows how the Portuguese left looks at this sector, for these millions of Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u194	Mrs. Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party also accompanies the votes of condemnation and concern regarding the political and social situation in Venezuela, which affects a large and important Portuguese community that lives in that country and that we have been accompanying with particular concern and attention. We call on the Venezuelan authorities to allow international aid and the international community to act with the urgency that the situation requires and we urge the Venezuelan regime to establish an environment of confidence and stability, so that the constitutional and democratic order rests in that country. Since the first hour that this Parliament, the Government and the PS have been in solidarity and fraternal with the Venezuelan people and, in particular, with the Portuguese who have chosen Venezuela to live, and so we will remain in their protection and permanent support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u197	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block expresses all its solidarity with both the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community that makes their lives in Venezuela. We call for the restoration of the rule of law, democracy and confidence. We know, we do not ignore, that history in Venezuela, unfortunately, has often gone through the usurpation of democratic rights and the free choice of the Venezuelan people. We have not accepted this in the past and we do not want it in the present or in the future, but of course democracy can only be synonymous and can only be achieved with a regime of confidence which guarantees the rights of all and all. That is exactly the appeal we also leave. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u199	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have always accompanied with concern, but also with weighting and seriousness, as is natural and normal,... [[Laughs from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] ... the situation in Venezuela. And this for a very simple reason: the situation in Venezuela is Venezuela, but it is also, as has been said here, and well, the 400 000 Portuguese who went to that country and who are directly dependent on political drama, or another, who live in that same country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u202	What we can say today is that what we have been watching has changed from the degree of a chavista, Marxist regime, more or less folklore, to an unequivocal degree of dictatorship. What we see is a Parliament suspended by a court order—and here we are all parliamentarians, elected by the people—, police charges, persecutions, arrests and an unsustainable political, social and economic situation. What does the PCP tell us about this? I shall quote: 'The democratic and progressive process has been interrupted'.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u203	It's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u204	Persecutions, arrests, police charges, a suspended Parliament. What happened? "Democracy has been interrupted",... [[PCP protests.]] ...that is, they have been suspended, sirs. Members, the broad democratic freedoms that were also being established in Venezuela, as they once wanted to do in our country. They didn't evolve! [[PCP protests.]] They didn't evolve! What needs to be said is that what is happening in Venezuela is unacceptable and that the Venezuelan regime must return to democracy, accept democracy, accept constitutional order and restore freedoms in that country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u205	That's what needs to be done. The dictatorship is not acceptable, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[CDS-PP applause.]] I end by asking: when a cruel dictator sheds chemical weapons on his people, whose fault is it? of the United States? Oh, my God! When a regime puts the country as it is, in misery, in hunger and misfortune, whose fault is it? Is it from the United States? Oh, my God! Mr. João Oliveira, is it always their fault? You know what's going on. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] More than that, the CDS does not just condemn. The CDS wants to hear, and that's why he called this House. Ambassadors and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because they have to explain to us how the government is concerned about supporting the Portuguese people there,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u206	You have already exceeded your time, Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u207	... and we must demand the Venezuelan regime to create the conditions for at least humanitarian aid to reach Venezuelans. [[CDS-PP Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u208	Repudiation of the actions of interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and of solidarity with the Venezuelan people ( PCP ). [[Pause.]] Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u209	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u210	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u211	Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group had asked for a vote by points of this vote and the next one.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u212	You're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. It was myself that I did not take into account the indication already given. We shall then break this vote and proceed to the first vote of point 1 and after point 2. We therefore vote point 1 of vote No 269XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repudiation of the actions of interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and of solidarity with the Venezuelan people ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 1. Repudiated the actions of political, economic and social interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u213	We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Wanda Guimarães.]] [[It is as follows: 2. It reaffirms the right of the Venezuelan people to decide sovereignly on their path of development free from any external and peaceful interference and pressure.]] [[The vote is of the following content: The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has been the victim of recurrent actions of interference and destabilization, including campaigns of misinformation and manipulation of public opinion, aimed at calling into question the democratic and progressive process, of sovereign affirmation and of cooperation, which has been played by this Latin American country. Recall the 2002 coup d'état against President Hugo Chávez and the 1999 Bolivarian Constitution. It is recalled the action of violence, economic boycott, exchange speculation, sabotage of services and supply networks, of permanent economic war against Venezuela. It is recalled the executive order of the US Administration, which considers Venezuela to be an "unusual and extraordinary threat" to the "national security and foreign policy of the United States", and the sanctions and threats of US military action against this country. Recall the interventionist action of the OAS Secretary-General against this sovereign state and people. The actions of interference and destabilization have been increasing by promoting the landing, the lack of products and other operations seeking to take advantage of the difficulties and negative effects of the Venezuelan economy resulting largely from the low oil prices and the economic crisis that is felt worldwide. Actions involving the convivence of the sectors that in Venezuela have never accepted the political, economic, social and cultural progress achieved by this country in the last 18 years, which is an example of the unconstitutional decision taken on 9 January 2017 by the parliamentary opposition with the aim of delegitimizing President Nicolás Maduro and his government. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session: 1. Repudiated the actions of political, economic and social interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela; 2. It reaffirms the right of the Venezuelan people to decide sovereignly on their path of development free from any external and peaceful interference and pressure.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u214	Mrs. Wanda Guimarães asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u215	Mr President, it is to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u216	Be registered. We turn to the vote on vote No 272 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemnation and concern about the instability situation in Venezuela ( CDS-PP ). In this case too, as requested, we shall vote point by point. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the BE, the votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstentions from the PS and the NAP.]] [[It is as follows: 1. Condemns and expresses its concern at the political, economic and social situation in Venezuela resulting from the disruption of democratic order, with serious consequences for the Venezuelan people and in particular for the Portuguese community living in that country;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u217	Let us now vote on point 2. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: 2. It is associated with the voices that urge the Venezuelan regime to establish a climate of confidence, dialogue and stability and the immediate replacement of the constitutional and democratic order in that country;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u218	We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] [[It is as follows: 3) Calls on the Venezuelan authorities to allow international aid to reach the population with the greatest urgency and to allow access to various international initiatives for the benefit of citizens.]] [[The vote is as follows: In recent days, we have seen a dramatic increase in the political and social situation in Venezuela. The climate of instability and insecurity, exacerbated by the recent political and institutional tension, has broadened the serious humanitarian consequences for the Venezuelan people, but also for the large and active Portuguese community based in Venezuela. In just less than three years, the political and economic crisis has become a humanitarian crisis, resulting from the lack of food, the lack of medicines and the suspension of the supply of energy. Venezuela has in the past been synonymous with progress, well-being and hope for many of these national citizens, and today is its opposite. The images of violence and disorder that come to us every day gain an alarming dimension and frequency. As such, they must deserve our particular attention, because they reveal the fragility of the existing political and social order, which can result in a shocking deterioration of human rights and an undesirable constitutional and democratic regression. There is certainly more than 400,000 Portuguese living and working daily in Venezuela. Despite the fact that in recent months it has been particularly shaken by the precarious conditions resulting from this political and economic crisis and from the violent and serious crimes committed by marginals, it has, in particular, resisted fear and social blockade. In this context, the Assembly of the Republic: (1) Condemns and expresses its concern at the political, economic and social situation in Venezuela, resulting from the disruption of democratic order, with serious consequences for the Venezuelan people and in particular for the Portuguese community living in that country; (2) Associates with the voices that urge the Venezuelan regime to establish a climate of confidence, dialogue and stability and the immediate reposition of the constitutional and democratic order in that country; (3) Calls on the Venezuelan authorities to allow international aid to reach the people with the greatest urgency and to authorize access to various international initiatives for the benefit of citizens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u219	The following vote No 274 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the award of the Europe Nostra Awards 2017 to the recovery of the Church and the Tower of the clergy and to the master's degree on monuments and constructions of the University of Minho ( PS ), which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Torre dos Clérigos, in Porto, and the Master of Structural Analysis of Monuments and Historical Constructions, of the University of Minho, were the two Portuguese projects awarded in the 2017 edition of the Europa Nostra Prize for Cultural Heritage, a prize to which 202 candidates from 39 European countries competed. The Europa Nostra Prize, launched by the European Commission in 2002, was created with the aim of recognizing the remarkable conservation, research and education initiatives in the area of heritage and contributing to the dissemination of European actions and policies in this cultural area. The jury awarded the Conservation Award to the Church and Tower of the Clerigos, by the ‘ exemplary contribution in the conservation, research, service dedicated to heritage, and education, training and awareness-raising(...) of this important landmark of the historical center of Porto, UNESCO World Heritage, for the present and future generations’, pointing out that ‘the project team has achieved a balance between research and the traditional high quality restoration techniques’. Equally awarded was the Master of Structural Analysis of Monuments and Historical Constructions of the University of Mininho, in the category Education, Training and Sensitization, stressing the jury that ‘the project has great international value and its program allows students to recognize structural systems in different cultural contexts, encouraging students to create and develop their technical capacity in an international perspective’. The award of these awards is a symbol of the relevance that we should continue to lend to the historical and cultural heritage, recognizing its importance as a witness to the collective identity of citizens, its potential in promoting economic and cohesion and social integration. The Assembly of the Republic, in this way, congratulates the Brotherhood of the clergy and the University of Minho for the award of the Europe Nostra Prize 2017, reaffirming its commitment to defending and valuing the historical and cultural heritage. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u221	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also have, for the vote, vote No 275/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — From condemnation against the United Nations Population Fund ( PS ) by the US, which will also be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on 3 April, it was announced that the United Nations Population Fund ( UNFPA ), a decision based on a wrong view and based on wrong assumptions about its performance, would be cut off by the United Nations Population Fund ( UNFPA ). UNFPA is a UN agency dedicated to promoting universal access to health, in particular sexual and reproductive health, promoting voluntary family planning, promoting maternal health, preventing female genital mutilation, ending child marriages and other programmes essential to the fundamental rights of women, girls, young people and their families. Present in more than 150 countries, it plays a crucial role in developing countries, working with governments and complementing the action of health services to combat sexually transmitted epidemics and infections, such as HIV/AIDS, and also in the context of humanitarian crises, especially among vulnerable and at risk populations. UNFPA has always operated on the basis of voluntary contributions from countries and other entities, including, with decisive weight, the US contribution that in 2015 during the Obama Administration was the fourth largest. The recent decision thus represents a regrettable backwardness that can compromise the functioning of UNFPA and the positive and absolutely irreplaceable impact of its activity on the lives of thousands of people, meaning, in practice, the reduction of basic access to health and the consequent increase in the spread of diseases and epidemics that threaten and pose a risk to all mankind. contrary to the orientation underlying this decision, the world needs solidarity, global awareness and multilateral efforts to expand the capacity to solve the collective challenges of sustainability and well-being, for which Portugal has always contributed. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the decision of the current US Administration to cut funding to the United Nations Population Fund and calls for the strengthening of international solidarity in promoting and defending reproductive rights and health worldwide, in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u223	We proceeded to the vote on the vote that was just read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Rice and protests from the PCP and BE.]] Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, have you asked for the floor for what effect? [[Rice and protests from the PCP and BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to let Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u224	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u225	The Bureau made the record. Mr Telmo Correia. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u226	Mr President, it is also to announce that the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote on this subject. [[PCP and BE protests.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 276 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the progress made in peace initiatives in the Basque Country ( BE ). The initial title of the vote has been changed. There are parties that still have time to intervene. Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The construction of a peace process is always complex, long, too often painful, but inevitably multidimensional. But, of all the peace-building processes, there is a fundamental step, without which there can be no peace-building, and that stage is the end of weapons, is the disarmament of the parties in conflict. After 50 years of armed conflict in the Basque Country, after 5 years of cease-fire of the ETA, tomorrow, Saturday, April 8, the opportunity is opened to begin another decisive step in the peace process of the Basque Country. The disarmament of the ETA shall be done unconditionally, unilaterally and verified by the International Verification Committee. Civil intermediaries, including representatives of all French political parties, with the exception of the National Front, with the support of the Basque Parliament and with the support of important social, civil and political leaders of Basque society, will communicate to the French justice the location of the arsenals and thus proceed to the disarmament of the ETA. Disarmament is good news for anyone who wants a Europe of peace and security. To recognize it does not mean whitening what cannot be bleached and does not mean absolve anyone of any suffering. Recognizing this disarmament means starting to close a wound that would be irresponsible to keep open only for revenge. in a world where too many conflicts seem endless—and we have already had the opportunity to regret them here today, too—the recognition of this act of peace is the only thing that is asked of the international community.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u228	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u229	I conclude, Mr. President. And that is also what Parliament is asking for, because the recognition of this act of peace is above all, and above all, the recognition of a vote of solidarity with the Basque people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u230	Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor for one speech. Mr President, I am alert to the fact that I have only 7 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also naturally welcome the completion of this peace process, but we would like to see, in this vote of the Left Block, a condemnation of the 40 years of terrorism which has been carried out, unfortunately, by the ETA, which has so much terrorized the Spanish people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u232	With contributions from these never there are peace processes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u233	Congratulations on the progress made in peace initiatives in the Basque Country ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[After half a century of an armed conflict and more than five years of permanent ceasefire, the Basque Country Peace Process is now taking a final step with the ETA's intention to proceed with its final disarmament. According to statements by the intermediary and environmental activist Jean Nöel Etcheverry, disarmament will take place on 8 April, in Baiona, through civil intermediaries who will communicate to the French justice, at the request of the ETA, the location of all arsenals. Disarmament will be unconditional and unilateral and will have the oversight of the International Verification Committee. This process is being recognized and supported by the main political, social and civil society leaders of Basque, as well as by the Basque Parliaments and Navarre. Similarly, in France, representatives of all political parties except the National Front have already demonstrated their support for the day of disarmament and, like the President of the Baiona Chamber, actively participate in all of the so-called ‘peacemakers’. For this process to succeed, the various political actors have appealed to the Governments of France and the Spanish State to allow the disarmament process with guarantees of security and recognition. Without losing the memory of the innocent victims and the suffering caused by this conflict, the future of peace passes through this historic opportunity in the Basque Peace Process, without which other conflict-related problems cannot be solved. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the conclusion of the Basque Country Peace Process and calls on all speakers to conclude successfully, particularly with the security and recognition of the disarmament process.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u234	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u235	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u236	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on the previous vote. We did not pronounce ourselves orally because we had no time left.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u237	As Mr Telmo Correia has proposed this method, which is indeed a positive method, I was amazed—it is the term—because it was the CDS-PP to propose the discussion of this point and then it did not remain in time for the discussion of the point he proposed. But these are things that happen to everyone. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 542/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Preservation of memory and history of Forte de Peniche ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 785 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the preservation, conservation and dignity of the Peniche Fortress ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 790 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recovery, requalification and valuation of the Forte de Peniche ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u238	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u239	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u240	It is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on the votes of the last three draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u241	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Piscan asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u242	Yes, Mr President, it is also to announce that we will present a statement of vote on these draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u243	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 783/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a specific CSA for non-conventional therapy ( NCT ) ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] We will generally vote for the project of lein.o 420 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 308/2007 of 3 September 2007 - Create and regulate the financial support programme Port 65 - Rent for young people ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 466 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September establishing the financial support programme Port 65 - Rent by Youth ( Porta 65 - Youth ) ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Down to 11. the Commission. Also in general, we will vote for Bill No. 487 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — extends by five years the maximum age for access to the lease support programme Porta 65 ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September ) ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Down to 11. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 493 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of beneficiaries and support for the Porta 65 Jovem programme ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September 2007 establishing and regulating the financial support programme Porta 65 - Rent by Youth ) ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]] Also down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, then, we will vote for a request, submitted by the authors of the diplomas, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, without voting, for a period of 30 days, of the projects of lein.o 165 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 23 / 2006 of 23 June amending the legal regime of young associations ( PS ), 483 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 23 / 2006 of 23 June amending the legal regime of young associations ( PSD ), 488 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Associativism Jovem ( first amendment to Law No 23 / 2006 of 23 June ) ( BE) and 492 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — the establishment of a national plan to encourage student associations and the implementation of measures to support and exempt costs in the establishment and recognition of youth associations ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on a request by the Block on the Left, requesting the release of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 465 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the establishment of forest management units ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote, in general, together, the projects of lein.o 405 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures the right to joint custody of minors for the purposes of IRS ( PCP ), 434 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures the right to jointly declare expenditure on dependents for the purposes of IRS(BE) and 485 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the right to jointly declare expenditure on dependents within IRS ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]] They go down to five. the Commission. We shall then vote on draft resolution No 784 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government eliminate discrimination within IRS relating to the exercise of parental responsibilities ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 789 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulation and Assessment Report of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August approving measures for the establishment of an official animal collection centre network and establishing the prohibition of the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the population ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote on the draft lein.o 443 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 148 / 2015 of 9 September which approved the Legal System of Audit Supervision by strengthening the supervisory powers of the Securities Market Commission in verifying any conflicts of interest between the audit exercise to public interest entities and the provision of consulting services to such entities or third parties ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 444 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended fourth Decree-Law No. 228 / 2000 of 23 September ( Creates the National Council of Financial Supervisors ), strengthening the powers of the National Council of Financial Supervisors and promoting efficient collaboration and coordination between the various financial supervisory bodies, Banco de Portugal, Commission on the Securities Market and Insurance Supervisory Authority ( ASF ), establishing an Executive Secretariat ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The general vote of Bill No. 445 / XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — Amends the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies adopted by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December adopting restrictive measures in the marketing of financial products and instruments by credit institutions and financial corporations ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 446 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January, Organic Law of the Banco de Portugal, introducing the rule that the completion of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal is carried out through competitive process ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Low to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 447 / XIII ( 2 ) is followed. ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December which approved the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, strengthening the supervisory powers of the Banco de Portugal as regards the corporate governance systems of credit institutions and introducing limitations on the granting of credit to holders of qualifying holdings in credit institutions ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 448 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, preventing the allocation of incentives for marketing to the retail of specific products or financial instruments and reinforcing the intervention of the Banco de Portugal in this area ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 489 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It imposes the classification of public supply to all positions involving unskilled investors, ensuring greater protection for small investors ( amendment to the Securities Code, approved by Decree-Law No 486 / 99 of 13 November ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 490 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Limits the marketing of financial products ( amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Low to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 491 / XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — prohibits banks from carrying out transactions on securities issued by themselves or by entities related to them ( amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We then, in general, voted Bill No. 494 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens supervisory obligations by Banco de Portugal and transparency in conducting audits to credit institutions and financial corporations ( 36 ). the amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] Also down to 5. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 787 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the exemption of Carlos Costa from the position of Governor of Banco de Portugal ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 788 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the weighting of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Investigation Committees in the context of the transposition of the Financial Markets and Instruments Directive and the Reform of the Financial Sector Supervision Model ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 486 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Dematerialization of manuals and other school materials ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The Commission shall be down to 8. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 739 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government report, together with the Secretariat of the Espoo Convention, the violation of the Convention by Spain due to the lack of communication to Portugal of the intentions to extend the useful life of the Central Nuclear de Santa Maria de Garoña, as well as the absence of a cross-border EIA ( PAN ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 51 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the regime for freezing and losing crime instruments and products in the European Union, transposing Directive 2014 / 42 / EU. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will also proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 327 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the General Rules of the Civil Protection Procedure ( approved by Law No 141 / 2015 of 8 September and the second amendment to Law No 75 / 98 of 19 November ) ( BE), 345 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Promotes the urgent regulation of parental responsibilities and the allocation of food in situations of domestic violence and the application of coercion or ancillary penalty measures involving distance between parents ( PS ) and 353 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Affirms the need for urgent regulation of parental responsibilities in situations of domestic violence ( NAP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 350 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, extending the period of protection up to 25 years ( third amendment to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, approved by Act No 147 / 99 of 1 September, amended by Laws No 142 / 2015 of 8 September, and 31 / 2003 of 22 August ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works ( 2 ) on the proposal for a law No 29 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the general principles and rules relating to the organisation of public tender procedures for the award by contract of concessions intended exclusively for the exploitation of municipal networks for the distribution of low voltage electricity. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, and the PAN and abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u244	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u245	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u246	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u247	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We passed the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft law No 151 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the exercise of the rights of users as enshrined in the Code of Copyright and Related Rights ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bill No 55 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — transposes Directive 2014 / 67 / EU on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u248	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u249	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u250	Mr President, it is to announce that we are going to make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u251	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u252	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u253	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u254	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u255	All right, get registered. We now move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Bill No 155 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Classification and protection scheme for shops and entities with historical and cultural interest. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u256	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u257	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u258	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u259	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u260	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u261	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u262	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group will also make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u263	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall also vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft law No 310 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension for 10 years the period of application of the New Urban Rent Scheme for renters with Gross Gross Income ( RABC) less than five Annual National Minimum Remunerations ( RMA ), for leasers aged 65 or over or with a disability of 60 % or more and for non-residential leases ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u264	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u265	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u266	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present an oral vote today following the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u267	Of course, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u268	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u269	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u270	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will also present an oral vote today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u271	All right, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u272	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u273	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u274	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u275	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u276	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u277	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u278	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u279	Be registered. The general vote is followed, the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality in the Commission and the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the projects of lein.o 334 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Obligations to assess the environmental impact of oil and natural gas extraction prospecting operations ( BE) and 338 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Making environmental impact assessment mandatory for the exploration and research phases of hydrocarbons, promoting the third amendment to Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October establishing the new legal regime for environmental impact assessment of public and private projects likely to produce significant effects on the environment ( The Greens ). The authors of these diplomas withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u280	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u281	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u282	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u283	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedom and Guarantees. I would ask the Secretary of Bureau Pedro Alves to take note of his opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedom and Guarantees on Case No 442 / 14.T9STS of the Local Criminal Court of Santo Tirso, authorizes the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mrs Joana Lima ( PS ) in order to be heard, as a defendant, in the framework of a court proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u285	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to the explanations of vote on the final text on Bill No 310 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) by order for which they have been requested. To give the first statement of vote, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the basis of a legislative initiative of the CFP, today a significant set of amendments to the urban lease regime was approved, which had been imposed by the PSD and the CDS, which facilitated the clearance and protection of tenants and tenants of their right to housing. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u287	Today, the extension of the transitional period for 10 years was approved for the elderly, for persons with disabilities over 60 % and for non-residential rent; the extension for eight years, despite not being our proposal, of the transitional regime for people with incomes below five minimum annual national wages; the introduction of two more steps in the definition of the maximum income value for the lowest incomes, also reducing their rate of effort; the extension of the contract period from two to five years; the transmission of the leaser's death contract to re-housing for works or demolition; the introduction of mechanisms that hinder the misuse of the contract reporting on grounds of deep works and greater protection for sports, culture and recreation collectives. however, we must not fail to mention that the Assembly of the Republic has lost an opportunity to go further in defending the right to housing. He lost the opportunity to end the National Rent Balcony which, in practice, is a real clearance counter. It lost the opportunity to reduce the maximum income value to 4 % of the capital value of the dwelling in the transitional period. Today, with the proposal and intervention of the CFP, tenants and tenants become more stable in their lives. They will no longer keep their hearts in their hands, as a result of the law of the PSD and the CDS, which at the end of this year would certainly take many and many families out of the dwellings of a lifetime and throw them into the street because they had no means to pay the high income values.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u288	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u289	I will finish, Mr. President. The intervention of the CFP was to solve concrete problems, the most meaningful problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u290	Mrs. Deputy, the two minutes you had are actually to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u291	I really am concluding, Mr President. The PCP thinks we could have gone further. That is the commitment we have made. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u292	For a statement of vote, Mrs Helena Roseta of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u293	Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group voted in favour of the text approved by the Commission in accordance with our commitment to the Government's Programme, which was transposed into the Great Plan's Options in order to strengthen the rights of tenants and rebalance the relationship between landlords and tenants, which had been profoundly unbalanced by the changes in the urban lease of the previous Government. We voted in favour of the protection of the most vulnerable, of greater rental stability, and we also voted for important changes to the leased buildings work regime, which must be much more demanding to put an end to the current situation. With the over-liberalization of this regime, it is easy, it is very easy to put people, residential and non-residential tenants on the street with a small compensation and clear entire areas and entire buildings. Mr President, we are aware that this does not solve all the problems. The rental market is varied, there is a large imbalance between supply and demand, there are no houses left to rent, the rental price is very high. However, more than 700 000 empty houses exist in Portugal. This is the paradox we have to solve: many houses that are empty and very few houses to rent at affordable price. To solve this paradox, we will need to take steps to boost the lease market, including income insurance, tax review, the best functioning of justice, transparent and public information on this market, because no market works well if there is no transparent information. But we also need to give more social support to people with great housing shortage and we need to have more public housing, subjects on which the Assembly of the Republic has already spoken. I conclude by recalling, Mr President, that there is a constitutional duty in terms of rent, that is sometimes forgotten and that I will remember. It says Article 65. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in whose wording I was proud to participate, that «the State shall adopt a policy aimed at establishing a system of income compatible with family income ». We are far from achieving this goal, but today we have taken very important steps in this direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u294	For a statement of vote, Mrs Emília Santos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to leave only two brief notes on this legislative package on urban rental. The first is to denounce this populist persecution of the left-wing parliamentary parties to the lords, transforming them into institutions of social solidarity to force. And I am going to explain why, in fact, there is a need for clarification. in the reform of the urban lease carried out by the previous government, precisely in 2012, an income allowance was created to be allocated to the elderly and needy tenants who were expected to enter into force at the end of this year, ending the five years of period of deficiency granted. After this deadline, it would be time for the State to take up its duties, and this is where you are. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem lies. It was clear to the left that it is cheaper not to make the income allowance created by the previous government effective, as it was clear that not promoting its budget would also be more favourable, as it was also clear that throwing more eight years of social functions on the state over the landlords would be more favourable, as it is cheaper to let the elderly live in degraded houses for enough time until the law of life solves the problem to the government,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u296	...how it really goes cheaper to the left parliament to force the owners to substitute for social security. Let me say and remember that this betrayal of the owners is proof of the failure of the 2006 reform, done by Antonio Costa. The second note, Mrs. Members, it is to be borne in mind that the PSD Parliamentary Group does not see itself in this cheap way to solve the problem of renting in Portugal, so we firmly assume our strong opposition to this return to the past, which goes through the attack on property rights, also enshrined in the Constitution. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u297	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are laws like this, authentic cards loaded with populism and pure demagogy, which are destroying the lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u298	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u299	I would like to say a final word, Mr President, to realize that the PSD Parliamentary Group is clearly in line with the need for recognition of so-called 'historical shops', as well as for its protection. What we do not accept and what we do not see is the trivialization of the concept. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u300	For a statement of vote, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u301	Mr President, the adoption of these amendments to the urban lease regime has introduced a significant change in relation to the previous period, dominated by the intervention of the PSD/CDS Government and, in particular, the Minister for Assumption Cristas, with the consequences that it has had on the instability of the lives of so many and so many families, especially older families. And to these no one has taken away the five years of uncertainty and deep concern in which they lived, under the threat of losing the houses where they lived for a lifetime. That threat, today, is dissipated. The period of time in which these families are protected, both the poorest and those over 65 years of age, and those with disabilities above 60 %, has been extended and important clauses have been introduced in relation to protection against eviction. I would just like to point out the missed opportunity, which was also on this occasion with regard to the introduction of an income allowance that could benefit the owners in a poor economic situation and that they have to deal with leases that continue to be protected from liberalisation and with conditional income. For these, the Left Block proposed the creation of an income allowance, which, despite having been supported by Mrs. Helena Roseta with the central role it had in all this process, did not get the support of the Socialist Party and thus could not be approved. The Left Block regrets that this opportunity has been lost, but it will continue to fight for these amendments and we will certainly have the opportunity in the short term to return to this subject. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u302	For a vote, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u303	Mr President, I would like to say that the CDS voted against these amendments to the lease regime, because they represent the reversal of a major reform, which the country needed long ago and which had been carried out by the former PSD/CDS Government, and return to legislation which is taxing the binding regime of the New State, on the basis of false pretexts, seeking to protect — they say — who was already protected by the income allowance, who do not want to pay, and thus articulately seeking to meet the costs of the landlords and hoping that the law of life will do its function, thus trying to obtain a deficit that is no more than an illusion. They dismiss the social state from its functions those who cherish it and thus have a purely mercantilist view of people's lives. That is why we voted against, because, once again, I repeat, there is a machadada in the rental market, in urban requalification. This law will contribute even more to the desertification of the city centre. And finally, and no less important, there is a violation of the right of property enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. And on whose side? On the part of those who always like to invoke, but do not hesitate to rape her for purely ideological reasons. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u304	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u305	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u306	Mr President, to indicate now what I have not done before for a period of time, that we will deliver a declaration of vote on the final text on Bill No 151 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-07.u307	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the vote, we have reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday 12, at 3 p.m., and will have on the agenda the 15th anniversary debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 26 minutes.]]
