ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. As you know, from the agenda, which was modified yesterday at the Conference of Leaders, only the evocative session in memory of the victims, solidarity with their families and thanks to all those who, on the ground, fight the scourge of fires. Before you give the floor to the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall proceed to the reading of vote No 341 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the fires that hit the country ( President of RA, PS, PSD, CDS-PP, BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), which is of the following content: « The fire that broke out in Pedrogão Grande in the afternoon of Saturday had tragic consequences that affected the municipalities of Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Pampilhosa da Serra, Gois, Ansião and Alvaiázere and beat the whole country. So far 64 people have died and 204 others have been injured, some of them in serious condition. We are talking about the biggest fire since there are records in the country, having already set about 30,000 ha of forest area. Sadly, this is also the greatest human tragedy caused by forest fires in Portugal. Our first thoughts are, therefore, with the bereaved families, to whom we transmit, in the name of the people we represent, our deepest solidarity. It is at times of pain that we see the cohesion of national communities. Portugal and the Portuguese are demonstrating strength, generosity and assistance. at the same time, the Assembly of the Republic is in solidarity with the efforts of the Firefighters, the Civil Protection, the Armed Forces, the Security Forces and the Security Services, as well as the Municipal Authorities and Social Security on the ground. His spirit of mission, his dedication to the public cause, is a worthy example of our sense of gratitude. Firefighting is always a tough fight. Indeed, among the 64 fatal victims of the fire, there is the loss of one of the firefighters fighting the flames and risking their lives for their fellow citizens and their communities. With the rare combination of adverse factors that occurred in this case, it becomes an unequal struggle. in an adult and consolidated democracy like ours, there is always room for informed balances and for the necessary evaluation of the actions and policies of the State. The Assembly of the Republic will, as always, be at the heart of the debates they hold and the Portuguese demand. Today is the day to honor the memory of those who have perished in this tragedy. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic notes with profound dismay the death of 64 people in these circumstances, conveying to family and friends and to all affected populations their deepest sorrow. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now move on to the stage of the proceedings. Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In the face of the greatest tragedy that Portugal has remembered in recent years, we are all in shock, united in a moment of deep sadness and pain. We share our feelings of great sorrow with the family and friends of all the victims, and we also remember the thousands of animals and the natural heritage that disappeared in this catastrophe. We express our solidarity with the physical and emotional devastation that is being experienced and our gratitude to all those who, on the ground, have fought, and continue to fight tirelessly. to those who integrate the Special Device of Combating Forest Fires and to all the citizens, professionals or not, who have proved to us that, despite the more political and financial crises that they live, the Portuguese never allow a crisis of generosity to be established and that, when necessary, they mobilize and create a human network of aid and protection that exceeds any expectation. To whom we forget in these days to give everything to others we express our deep gratitude. This is a lesson of humanity that greatly moves us and reminds us and calls us to the responsibility that we all have to honor, unequivocally correcting what is wrong. Unfortunately, with very high costs, we all know that something is deep and structurally wrong. To the calamity that afflicts us, we can apply one of the paradigms of war: we spend what is needed to prevent it, because all wars are lost. And at this very moment, the country continues to burn. at this moment, we continue to lose human and non-human lives. We continue to lose this war and will only win it when we all agree to think about the country in the long term and when we make nature and the environment a priority. Let all this serve at least to assume that Portugal no longer has a forest. Portugal has planted the abandonment and intensive monoculture of seizures. Unsaved plantations of any biological variety and environmental interest consume our remaining natural heritage and contribute to these fatalities. Yes, there are natural phenomena that are invincible, but natural disasters in our country find expression in humanized landscapes, ecosystems dominated and rebuilt by human beings. Unforeseenness and uncontrollability are the price to be paid for the manipulation and imbalance of nature. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Citizens, we live a moment of crisis that affects us all, we are all suffering. This is a moment of unity, of protecting and caring for those who have suffered emotional and material losses, of supporting those who continue on the ground. It is also a moment of stopping, reflection and balance, which must serve to revive and lift the souls. Let us continue the purpose of our existence: to be happy, to live harmonious relations, in a just and balanced society. And let's really do something to make it happen. [[PPS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u3	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u4	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen: In the face of the enormous tragedy that took place in Pedragão Grande, the first word of The Greens is to lament, with deep sadness, the loss of 64 human lives — children, women, men — most of which were caught by the fury of the fire when they were just looking to escape from it. A scene of horror, devastating! To the families and friends of all the fatal victims, the Greens Ecological Party expresses its greatest grief. There are also, in care, the more than 150 wounded, seven of whom are seriously injured, who have been victims of this calamity and to whom we leave here a word of solidarity and hope of recovery, in which medical teams are deeply committed to achieving it. There were many people who had lost their lives, who had irreparable losses, who spent moments that many described as "hell". A fire of dramatic proportions that spread from Pedrogão Grande to Figueiró dos Vinhos, the Castanheira de Pera, jumped to the Sertan, to Pampilhosa da Serra... There was no end! Especially in these circumstances, it is difficult, very difficult, to find words grand enough to, in this case on behalf of The Greens, express the purest gratitude and recognition to firemen who are on the ground seeking to dominate this and other forest fires, such as that which spreads now, worryingly, in Gois and which has already raised the number of wounded to 204. The firefighters demonstrate, summer after summer, that they are tireless national heroes, who have nailed themselves one of the most noble meanings of solidarity, of aid, of aid, of safeguarding the lives of others, and who work on the ground, in the fight against hell, to exhaustion! Even exhaustion and risking your own life! Gonçalo Assa, a volunteer fireman of Castanheira de Pera, died in this tragedy after this noble urge to save others. To your family, your friends and your corporation, your deepest condolences. Also to all the elements of the multidisciplinary teams that are in the field providing the necessary and possible help, the Greens express their sincere appreciation. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this tragedy, which will be known as the « tragedy of Pedrogão Grande», requires us to realize more than the dry trovada that the authorities guarantee has fuelled the forest fire. And it requires us even more than to realize if something has failed at the level of communication, coordination or decision-making agility to face the drama. And it imposes on us more than the immense reflections that have already been produced over the years on forest fires. And it requires us more than the production of new reports to add to the many already produced. And even it imposes on us more than the political will to change the causes that have weakened our forest and made it more vulnerable to fires and that are more than pointed out, from the exaggerated and continuous area of eucalyptal, which is a dramatic trail, through the depopulation and abandonment of productive activity in the rural world, to the unsustainable liquidation of State services with responsibility for the preservation of forests and forests. The truth is that political courage is imposed on the country! The phenomenon of hot temperatures and the shortage of moisture will not abandon us, it is expected that it will intensify year by year. to firefighters and the entire Portuguese population we must be courageous and responsible. The Greens will continue in this struggle. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u5	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In the face of the tragedy of the forest fire in Pedrógão Grande, our first words are, of course, of sorrow and solidarity for the victims, their families and all those on the ground who have given and continue to fight the fire, to give support to the victims and to seek to minimize the suffering of all those who have been hit by the fires. Populations, firefighters, Armed Forces, security services and forces, health and social security services, public, associative, solidarity structures, all of them involved in fighting fires and supporting victims deserve our recognition and solidarity for their generous and self-sufficient action. The proportions of this fire and the human and social tragedy that caused, either with the loss of lives or with the destruction of resources and goods, make the fire of Great Pedrogon into a catastrophe of unprecedented dimensions in our country. A disaster which urgently imposes a prompt and effective response to the victims, but which also requires, in the short term, full clarification of all the circumstances in which the fire has developed with the consequences which are known. It is necessary to focus attention on the support and assistance of the victims and their families, on health care, on the guarantee of housing, on the reconstruction of the conditions of subsistence of those who lost them, on the recovery of the normality of the daily populations affected by the fire. In the short term, the causes and circumstances in which this fire has developed will have to be fully resolved to the point of causing such loss of life and destruction of resources and goods. It is not to repeat committees, reports and recommendations but to implement concrete measures and actions that have long been identified as necessary to prevent forest fires. It is not possible to see a disaster like this that we are facing without questioning the measures that have never emerged from the role or the options that have been taken contrary to what should have happened in the field of forest management and surveillance of forests, disaggregating and extinction of public services and structures, weaknesses in strategic infrastructures of telecommunications and road communications, insufficient means and conditions of operation of civil protection, depopulation of the interior and abandonment of those populations to their fate, of inaction in the face of the pressure of economic interests on forest exploitation leading to the degradation of the living conditions of the populations, to the disorder of the forest space and to the worsening of fire risks. It is not possible to look at this catastrophe by misleading the consequences of years of integration into the European Union and by submitting to its common policies. Priority is support and assistance to victims, but none of these issues can be left open in the measures that need to be implemented. from the PCP, we reaffirm our feeling of regret and solidarity, and also our commitment, to make decisive progress in the measures that have long been necessary to prevent forest fires. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when the media holofotes are turned off, we do not allow them to fall back into oblivion. [[Congratulations from the CFP, The Greens and Members of the PSD and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u7	For an intervention, Mrs Assumption Cristas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u8	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the pain that invades our hearts in the face of the tragedy that has been inflicted on families and friends of everyone who has lost their lives in such a cruel way. We are united in this national mourning, in dismay, expressing our deep and supportive feelings to each of the families and friends, who, in the villages or on the road, saw their loved ones disappear. Certainly, his pain is deeper and tougher than we can ever imagine. May our sorrow and our prayers, however little it may be, contribute to allaying your pain. We are in mourning for the loss of Gonçalo Conceição's life, fireman who fell on mission to save people and goods. We mourn those who have left and remember those who have been left, having in many cases lost the center of their lives, their reason for their existence. These wanted to leave a word of hope and the desire that, over time, the brutality of loss may give way to comforting memory. We remember everyone who is hurt and, in some cases, with such reserved prognoses and we hope that everything will run for the best. We remember all those who are in the theatre of operations and we want to express all support for the hundreds of operations on the ground, firemen and other forces involved, men and women who have given and give their best, in a battle without truce and under such adverse conditions. Their courage, dedication and generosity make them real national heroes. I stress the efforts of the authorities and the entire social network in a remarkable work that, in partnership, has developed in the field to support people who mourn their families and friends and who in so many cases have lost all their possessions. And I also stress the extraordinary example of all civil society, of so many Portuguese people who are mobilising, helping in very diverse ways, as I recall the support of the European Union and of so many friendly countries in Portugal at this difficult time. This is the time of mourning and the word of solidarity. For politics is still the time for quieting and collecting. The time will come for questions and answers, political and technical responsibilities, clarification and clarification of reasons. And mourning will also help to do with that truth. The truth is that we deserve all those who have left, all families and friends, all Portuguese. We can't miss these people. The search for answers is a requirement of respect for all those who suffer today. The state, Parliament, we all have to seek, and we have to seek, these answers so that no question will be answered. This will be the time to prepare everything about this tragic episode that will mark our collective memory, to learn with it and better prepare ourselves for the future. If our collective memory is indelibly illuminated by this tragedy, we can at least turn it into a solid and consistent lighting light of action. An action that departs from Portugal that we have for Portugal to which we want to arrive. An action that realistically knows that it is not possible — and perhaps not desirable — to return to the occupation model that we were abandoning in the second half of the last century, but an action that finds renewed forms of management of the territory and the forest. An action that knows that climate change makes the climate our greatest enemy and therefore efforts need to be redoubled. An action that focuses on raising awareness of the change in human behavior, which is at the root of the overwhelming majority of fires. An action that finds effective and coordinated models of prevention and combat. An action that all call around stable and lasting consensus. Pedrogão Grande, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Castanheira de Pera, lands of the district of Leiria, which I am proud to represent in Parliament, and the other regions of the central area that are still debating, with the drama of fires, will overcome this fight and will be reborn strong and stronger. Life will recompose until the Portuguese have always made resilience and overcoming a way of life, but at this moment of deep mourning and sadness it is essential that we know that in the day when everything returns to normal we will have answers to fundamental issues. From now on, we will have an answer to the essential question: how was this tragedy possible? But we will also have concrete answers on fire prevention and protection of people. And more than answers, we will have to have a guarantee that everything that needs to be done — or changed — will be done so that such a tragedy will not happen again. To all of this the CDS says present! We're not going down our arms! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and some of the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u9	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not yet know the total dimension of the tragedy of the fires of Pedrogão Grande, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Castanheira de Pera, Pampilhosa da Serra, Alvaiázere, Sertan, Penela and Gois, but we already know that it is unbearable. by the tens of people who have lost their lives, by the impotence of all means to avail them, by everything that has been destroyed, by the wounded to fight for life, by those who seek for their missing ones and because at this moment still burns, there are still those who are forced to leave everything behind and there are still those who are fighting the flames. The shock and pain are overwhelming. The need to support the victims and to wage fire concentrates the country's efforts and attention. Populations, firefighters, GNR, INEM, civil protection, all those on the ground: we owe them everything. We owe them solidarity, gratitude, respect. We must solidarity in pain, loss, struggle. And the way Portugal has organized itself to support selflessly is exciting. Individually and collectively, the country is spontaneously organizing itself to support firemen and populations, to provide means to institutions that welcome those who have to leave their homes, to go to the animals. More will be needed to welcome immediately but also to rebuild lives and the economy, and the state must begin from now on. We owe them gratitude. to firefighters because they always respond beyond the limits of their forces and, despite the lack of means, to each neighbor who helped those close to them, to each community who fights the flames and runs to those who most need them, civil and military, from medical personnel to the workers of the authorities, we must thank them. We must also answer them. How was that possible? How did we get to a tragedy of these dimensions? What's wrong? Now is the time for solidarity and pain, but also for the unequivocal commitment that we will arrive at the time of accurate answers and strict responsibility. This is not just a matter of time or climate. Certainly, especially aggressive climate conditions pose problems of very difficult response and surely the warming of the planet and climate change will increasingly confront us with adverse conditions. But the most complicated questions are political choice: spatial planning, desertification and abandonment, civil protection model, forest policy and the domain of eucalyptus. We must answer because we must respect. Being consistent, honoring each victim of this fire and so many fires, too many fires, requires us to act decisively and courageously so that the tragedy does not repeat itself. The Block of Left pays tribute to the victims of the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Alvaiázere, Sertan, Castanheira de Pera, Pampilhosa da Serra, Penela and Gois and thanks the national and international solidarity and the tireless work of so many and so many fighting in the field for the protection of the populations. [[Congratulations on BE and on the PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u11	Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It brings us together, here, a pain that we share, the loss of so many human lives due to fires that consume and feed on an activity that should be a source of life; terrible events that have devastated our country, in recent days, with brutal incidence on various councils of the inner pine. Our thoughts are addressed to the families of the victims—of so many victims—of these fires, expressing our deep sadness and solidarity that is due them. We know well, because of already experienced circumstances, what costs the loss of human lives at ineligible times and, therefore, the value of friendly and, above all, encouraging words. On behalf of the Socialist Party, I also leave the certainty of our determination to act in an active and fraternal manner. It is time, with the greatest readiness and correctness, to help people, to support the many who are committed to owe the fires and to save lives and goods, from the authorities and commands of the Civil Protection to the most anonymous citizen, to the author, to the fireman, to the police, to the military, to the operatives of other countries, to the health professional or to the social security technician, men and women. It is also time not only to seek all the structural and specific explanations for the success, as in fact it has already determined the Prime Minister, but above all to look forward, to work to recover the collective heritage, to sacrifice losses, to compensate for losses and to reactivate the productive potential, to regain employment and to help restore lives, families and ruined communities. Parliament will be responsible, through the ways it chooses, without party competitions, which should not take place and in which, in this regard, we will never participate, not only in the search for those explanations, as a careful and exhaustive follow-up of the ongoing tasks of normal restoration, taking the deliberations and issuing the recommendations it understands relevant. We have about 1 million hectares of land that are unproductive and abandoned, without known owner. On the other hand, forestry cannot be a camouflaged form of abandonment of land, of productive insecurity, a form of economic facilitation and social irresponsibility and, much less, a cause of fear for the housing communities of desertification and destruction. The strategic value of the forest for environmental sustainability and for our economy requires professionalism, planning and planning that is necessary to carry out and requires more management based on strengthening the State's coercive means, accountability of the private that owns the property of almost all the forested area, the preventive and fire-fighting means and a close monitoring. The legislative diplomas approved last October, in the context of the forest reform that the Government has understood, well, to promote, in conjunction with other existing legislation, that it is important to carry out, and with the pending final assessment in this House, will certainly contribute to all the necessary frameworks. All we have to do is to improve the preventive and operational instruments that mitigate these periodic and fateful incidents. We have this obligation to join in doing what is essential. It is essential to break with this cycle of disability, because we cannot help but consider that over the last decades we have failed to prevent the progression of these phenomena and their most terrible consequences, knowing that the occurrence of extreme situations conducive to these devastating events tends to be increasingly frequent. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members: We want the Portuguese to feel that their country, mobilising the internal and external support available, helps those in need and helps those in distress. for our part, we want such fateful events, such as what brought us together today in this House, to give us strength and talent to do, with the greatest cooperation and continuity, all that is necessary to alleviate future concern and penosity, for the safety of Portuguese and Portugal. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE and PAN and from the CDS-PP.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u13	Mr José de Matos Correia has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a moment of parliamentary life that all of us, without exception, would wish it never to happen, because the circumstance that determines it is a tragedy of overwhelming dimensions that led to life to tens of people, who said countless families, who destroyed entire localities. in this measure, the first words I want to leave on behalf of the PSD are of honor, comfort and gratitude. In homage, first of all, to all those who have lost their lives, for more than so cruelly, in an unequal conflict with a treacherous enemy. From comfort to all those who have lost loved ones, friends and sometimes all their possessions. From gratitude to all those who have given the best of their efforts to halt such unequal combat, whether they are from the security forces, whether they are volunteers from the most diverse origins of civil society, or they are officials of various public services. But, of course, a special highlight must be left to firefighters, who have been, for all of us, once again, an example of courage, determination and love for our neighbor. A special word can also be given regarding Gonçalo Conceição, which led the exercise of functions to the extreme, sacrificing his life in defense of others. at the same time, we want to leave a word of hope to the wounded, wishing a restoration as soon as possible, but also to all affected communities, especially to the municipality of Pedrógão Grande, so that they can find the necessary determination to overcome this profound injustice that has fallen on them. The Assembly of the Republic expresses today, through the vote of regret that within minutes it will deserve the unanimous support of the House, not only the deep feeling of all those who perform functions here but, more than that, the feeling of a whole country and of a whole people, whose will here we proudly represent. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Honoring the memory of the 64 dead requires us, as an ethical imperative, that we do not comply with the inevitability of these tragedies and that we all mobilize to avoid them. Life in society is essentially based on respect for an idea, the idea of trust, because, without that normally we realize, it is the trust we place in the institutions and in each other that is at the base of even the most simple acts of our daily lives. We walk on the streets because we trust our security is guaranteed; we acquire goods because we believe in the good faith of the sellers; we often do not give the documents that they deliver to us because we do not doubt their correction; we share with others our opinions and secrets because we are absolutely convinced that they will save them for you alone. It must be acknowledged, however, that the value of trust has suffered, in modern societies, a progressive and very worrying erosion, both for endogenous reasons and for exogenous reasons. And because of this, uncertainty has come to take over the life of each one of us and — worse — undermine the trust that constitutes the basic assumption of any life in community. last weekend, 64 people trusted. They trusted, some, that they could be quiet in their homes, others, that they could take a walk to meet friends, yet others, that they could enjoy a few days of deserved vacation. They trusted, as we all instinctively do every day, that the institutions would be able to protect themselves in the face of a danger they faced. The country, however, was not up to that confidence. This is not yet the time to analyze failures or to ascertain responsibilities, if there are them, but such a moment must arrive, because the search for truth must always be, in a mature and consolidated democracy, like ours, a central concern, because only having the perception of what has been going on less well is that it can help us to reflect on how these catastrophes can be avoided or at least strongly minimized, because Portugal cannot be condemned, year after year, to live with fear and anxiety to face tragedies like the one that now about us all have been shot down. None of us ignores that the diagnosis of the weaknesses that the country exposes to this scourge is done, but we all also know that, if in the past human lives, especially firefighters, have been lost, and significant material damage has been recorded, this year's occurrences have reached unprecedented dimensions, particularly in terms of civilian victims. It is precisely this striking difference between the past and the present that requires an exhaustive clarification of what has happened. Doing so will not only be the way to ensure that this drama will no longer be repeated but, more than that and above all, the best way to honor the memory of those of our fellow countrymen who paid the last price because they trusted, as their right was to do so. [[Congratulations from PSD and CDS-PP and from PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-21.u15	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: last Sunday, the country woke up in shock when it realized the tragic consequences of the fire that broke out in Pedrogão Grande. 64 people died and 204 others were injured, some in serious condition. We are facing a true national tragedy, deserving of the mourning decreed. The feeling that strikes us, as fellow countrymen that we are, is that of solidarity with the families and friends of the victims and with those who have lost the goods they had — the same solidarity that we see growing from north to south of the country every day, passing through autonomous regions, and that we cannot but stand up. I also say a word to the soldiers of peace, who saw a comrade perish in this tragedy. They have always been an example of courage in conditions of an absolutely exceptional adversity. All firefighters and all men and women from different entities that are among the populations to help those who need the most are a true example of public service. On behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, thank you very much. In democracy, there is always room for evaluation and criticism. The Assembly of the Republic does not forget that it has as its noble task to legislate, but also to monitor the actions of the administration of the State. It is a constituent function of the democratic Parliament that will never cease to be exercised. There are aspects to be resolved immediately and in the framework of a comprehensive assessment of the procedures followed in this case. The country demands clear answers to legitimate doubts. I mean, how was that possible? How did the different responsible entities work in this case? What about forest policy and land planning? What is the state and what is it for the private? What balance do we make of organic reforms in the management and regulation of these areas of forests and civil protection? They are legitimate doubts and necessary debates. The Assembly of the Republic will always be the right stage for all debates and initiatives. But, with regard to those who lost their lives, we wanted, first of all, in this session, to follow the national mourning, to honor their memory. We owe them that. in the field, the priority is still to care for the wounded, support the families and affected populations and show confidence in those who are there fighting the flames. On behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, I express to the victims and families of the victims my greatest grief and my greatest respect for the pain they are experiencing. A word of hope for the authors of Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Pampilhosa da Serra, Gois — presidents of camera, councillors, presidents of assembly and assembly of the parish, some present here, to whom I warmly greet. With the strength of the people, with the solidarity already expressed throughout the country and our European partners, these councils will be reborn from ashes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[PSP, BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN and PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Members, before we proceed to the vote, I would like to say that the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cape Verde, the Vice-President of the National Assembly of Cape Verde and his Ambassador are present in the diplomatic gallery. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to check the quorum using the electronic system for this purpose. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the services inform me that there are difficulties with the electronic system, but the verification of the quorum, from the Bureau, is quite clear, so we can proceed to the vote on vote No 341 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the fires that hit the country ( President of RA, PS, PSD, CDS-PP, BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), which was read at the beginning of the session. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 3 p.m., and will take place as an agenda, the general assessment of Bill No 81 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2017 - 2019, the general discussion of Bill No 90 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, to the fifth amendment to the Code of the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom, approved by Law No 115 / 2009 of 12 October 2009, to the first amendment to the Law of Electronic Surveillance, adopted by Law No 33 / 2010 of 2 September, and to the second amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System, adopted by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August, the assessment of the Annual Report of the Ombudsman 2016, the assessment of petition No 90 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request the creation of the « National Day of Inclusion » on June 17 ( Ana Cristina Pinto Rebelo dos Santos Abrantes Pires et al.). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 15 hours and 57 minutes.]]
