ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. We have on the agenda, as the first item, the joint debate, in general, of Bill No 75 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and the right to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person and of the projects of lein.o 242 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recognizes the right to gender self-determination ( BE) and 317 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the right to gender self-determination ( PAN ). Before we start the debate, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 607 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — The seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June establishing the system for the recruitment and mobility of teaching staff in basic and secondary schools, which falls to 8. the Commission, 608 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repositions the holiday scheme in public service, including the right to 25 days of annual holidays and additional holiday days according to age, making the 8. amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, which approves the General Law on Public Works ( PCP ), 609 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assigns the right to 25 days of annual holidays, starting at 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 610 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recur 10 % of the amount of unemployment benefit after 180 days of its granting, by 10 days. the amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November ( PCP ), which also falls to 10. the Commission, and 611 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the regime for the replacement of strawberries ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted, Parliamentary assessment No 46 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 95 / 2017 of 10 August which regulates the transfer to the General Credentials Board, I.P. the financial charge with the pension supplements of the workers of Carris ( PCP ) and the draft resolutions 1056 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Increase in national minimum wage ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1057 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renewal of contracts for specialist technicians in spring 2017 / 2018 ( CFP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1058 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency intervention in the river Torto and the Panoias River ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1060 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — due to the necessary and urgent recovery intervention of the National Highway 114 ( Montemor-o-Novo / Coruche ) ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will then enter the first item on the agenda to which I have already referred. You have the floor, to present Bill No. 75 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), Deputy Minister Eduardo Cabrite.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme that brings us here today is a matter of human rights affirmation, which concerns the affirmation of the right to the recognition of gender identity, sexual self-determination and respect for the manifestation of gender-specific characteristics, originally undefined. It is a subject on which the Assembly of the Republic can contribute decisively to take a further step in the construction of the right to happiness of citizens and citizens who are among us. This initiative reflects on the best experiences of comparative law and also on reflection within the European framework, the Council of Europe, and the United Nations. It gains from our experience of the 2011 law, which allowed intervention in civil registration, but goes much further. First of all, it enshrines the safeguarding of the right to gender identity and the protection against any form of discrimination in education, access to health, in the world of work. It safeguards the right to separate what is the identification with gender that may not match the original biological reality, respecting what is the process of personality development and affirmation of gender consciousness. It states that, within the framework of the educational process, in which the construction of gender awareness is gradual, no child can be discriminated against in basic education by its identification with a gender other than that identified in the civil register, but also establishes the affirmation of the impossibility of intrusive practices that question or question, in relation to newborns, by choice of third parties, situations identified by the scientific community with a significant dimension in which the identification of gender is not clear. What we expect from the Assembly of the Republic, the debate today, but above all the debate that will be held in the specialty, is a constructive participation in finding solutions which, based on the course that Portugal prides, take us further in respect of fundamental rights, human rights, in particular the equality of rights for all and for all. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u5	To present Bill No. 242 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We welcome the Government's proposed law which seeks to go further in the guarantee of rights and in the protection of trans people. The Left Block makes its own contribution in this matter and defends the right to self-determination as a fundamental human right. We can get up every day and feel good in our skin, we can be who we are without embarrassment seems simple but it is not for everyone. It is not for all people whose gender identity does not combine with the sex they were born with. The gender identity law of 2011 allowed the change of sex and proper name in the civil registry, without the need for a judicial process but requiring the submission of a proven medical report of gender dysphoria. This is one of the main obstacles to the full enjoyment of the human rights of trans people: making third parties depend on the definition of what it is and which, in reality, only the person himself knows, feels and lives in the most intimate of his being. This pathologization, this label of mental illness, promotes unacceptable social stigmatization and cruel and unnecessary suffering. The depatologization and recognition of gender self-determination as a fundamental right and as a prerequisite for the free development of personality are now internationally recognized and expressed in Resolution 2048 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The World Health Organization has already announced that it would withdraw from the area of mental health, from the compendium of the International Classification of Diseases, the categories of diagnosis related to trans people. Countries such as Denmark, Sweden, Ireland, Norway or Malta have already taken this step. It is time in Portugal to do the same and to guarantee the right to gender self-determination to national and foreign citizens, but also access, within the framework of the National Health Service, to surgical interventions and to pharmacological treatments and others that these people require in order to make their body correspond to their gender identity. It is time to promote effective measures against generosity and transphobia and to ensure that these people are not discriminated against in health, education and also in the workplace. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: We know that the consciousness that was born in the wrong body happens most of the time during the growth and development of young people. Labelling them from mental patients is retrograde, but above all it is an incomprehensible cruelty. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PAN.]] We speak of young people who, after years of suffering, confess to their parents who take a closed shower because they cannot bear to look at their body; we speak of young people who do not look into the mirror because they do not recognize their body; we talk about young people who do not go to the beach or pool with their friends because they do not dare to take their breath in front of them; we talk about young people who live excluded and hidden from society, alone; we talk about young people who so often try suicide, but also for all those who achieve it. And we also speak for their families, and many are in these galleries today. It is up to us to have enough courage, ability and empathy to end this suffering. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u7	To present draft resolution No 317 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: A gesture as trivial to many citizens such as the presentation of the identification document continues to have a strong negative impact on the life of many people whose gender identity differs from the sex with which it is born. The law of gender identity currently in force has brought significant improvements in the lives of these trans people, but it has brought with it unnecessary bureaucracies, institutionalized prejudices and a junction of the clinical and legal sphere that is no longer desired: medical reports, the definition of a list of names of professionals empowered to sign them, the request for a second independent evaluation and, in many cases, consultations after consultations where the doctor is to decide, on the basis of his own individual criteria, whether a person is more man or more woman or if he is not yet sufficient man or woman. All this is violence and unnecessary barriers to a decision that we all know to be individual and conscious. Everyone here, in this room, we know who we are and we don't need anyone to testify for us. These trans people also know who they are. The legislative initiative we bring today is intended to ensure the right to self-determination of trans people in the definition of their gender identity, guaranteeing them an individual, autonomous and aware of the change of legal and name in the civil register. It is urgent to respect the autonomy of these people by eliminating the mandatory delivery of this report, thus separating the clinical sphere from the legal. We also want to assign legitimacy to minors, accompanied by their legal representatives or the Public Prosecutor's Office, to request this amendment in court. We also propose that if the applicant has children, his/her personal documents should be updated in accordance with the new registration. Enough of discrimination engines validated by law. Several national and international entities have been demanding the creation of this new legislation. Around the world, the latest laws exclude the need for this diagnosis, particularly the laws of Argentina, Malta or Norway. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys : It is sometimes in the application of laws that find their weaknesses. by granting the right to self-determination, the State will break obstacles and oppositions created after the implementation of Law No. 7/2011, also contributing to eliminate discrimination and to ensure full use of citizenship to all citizens and citizens irrespective of their gender identity. Let's go this way together. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : in our country, until the approval of Law No 7 / 2011, the change of legal sex and proper name for civil registration purposes was possible only through a judicial process in which persons were obliged to place the Portuguese State in court, claiming an error in the allocation and registration of their identity. With the approval of Law No 7 / 2011, the process of legal recognition of gender identity became the nature of an administrative act. According to the study Gender Identity Act: impacts and challenges of legal innovation in the area of transgener, carried out by ILGA (Intervention Lésbica, Gay, Bissexual e Transgenero — ILGA Portugal ), 91% of the transgener interviewees characterized the Law as important or extremely important, and the total universe of people who have changed from legal sex and of their own name through Law No. 7/2011 recognized this change in this study as a positive or very positive impact on their happiness, psychological well-being and social well-being. Most have also pointed to a positive or very positive impact in areas such as access to and maintenance of employment, access to public services, security in the public space, family life and emotional life. The proposals under discussion today introduce a vision of depathologization of transgender people, in particular by separating the clinical domain from the legal domain and eliminating the requirement for the submission of a report proving the diagnosis of disturbance of gender identity, for the purposes of civil registration. The proposed law for the first time presents a proposal for legal regulation of treatment and surgical, pharmacological or nature intervention involving changes to the body or sexual characteristics. It proposes, in this context, the prohibition of surgeries which are not necessary for children or intersex babies, anchoring themselves in international recommendations, providing that only the surgical or pharmacological interventions necessary to eliminate health risks should be carried out immediately, leaving the others for the moment when the gender identity is defined, and in this case this can only be done with the authorization of legal representatives. Protection measures and anti-discrimination in the field of health, employment and education are also proposed. There are issues in this bill that require a deeper and clearer discussion in the field of expertise, not allowing the hearing of people, organizations and specialists. It is necessary to balance with transgender people, professionals and specialists in the application of the existing law in order to identify the legal changes to be considered, such as the specific training needs that do not seem to have existed, not to date being ensured with the Law. The PCP is obviously available to do this work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This issue of gender identity is very complex and has multiple facets and variables. That is why it is impossible, in three minutes, to disprove them accurately in this debate. We are going to put aside technical and technical-legal issues and I would like to refer to other matters. The first comment goes to a certain lightness with which the subject is dealt with, especially by the Block of Left and the PAN, which, coming from these parties, does not scare us, since we are used to its accelerated ideological agenda and, therefore, we are not surprised. Surprisingly, we are left with the PS, which has a past, it is certain that more distant, but of common sense, weighting and moderation in these matters and now we do not believe that this weighting is here overcome in this bill. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u13	It's true that we've been getting used to seeing the PS go to the radical agenda on the left...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u14	Which one? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u15	... and now there is an absolute surrender in the name of perpetuation of a status quo that will pass decisions to the esmo that the Portuguese have not supported and in which many of them do not reveal themselves. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u16	It's in our electoral program!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u17	It is appropriate to say that the PS now has some concessions that it used to excuse itself, and saying this does not mean that we ignore the problem. On the contrary, we are not entirely alien to the suffering and anguish of living imprisoned in a body that is not its own and an identity that is rejected. [[BE's protests.]] We are not strangers to this, but the question is not solved by looking at just one side of the problem and taking the whole part. I want to ask the ladies. Members even understand that a minor has the ability to decide to change names and sex, in a practically irreversible way. Do you really think a minor has the ability to make such a decision? They even think that a minor who can't vote, can't drive, can't smoke, can't drink, has enough maturity,... [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u18	But he can be arrested!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u19	Listen, listen! ... are you mature enough to know what you want to do in this matter for the rest of your life? The ladies and gentlemen. Do you think it is reasonable that there is no need to prove the existence of a gender identity problem in order to be able to change from sex to name? Have you thought carefully about the consequences of your proposal? What they will say when any criminal invents that has a gender identity problem — inventing, and can invent! — to arrive at the civil register and change sex and name so as to evaporate? Have you thought carefully about the blow that has just been unleashed in the principle of security and legal certainty? You've been thinking about this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? The CDS has already thought and is ready to reject these projects, happily, we say, from most Portuguese and even from an illustrious Portuguese, which unfortunately is no longer among us, Prof. João Lobo Antunes, who was very reasonable in these matters and who asked for greater weight and moderation. That's exactly what we propose. If you and the ladies. Members believe, in fact, that what they are proposing, they take it upon themselves to vote and vote on these questions. Don't throw the stone to hide your hand next! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u20	by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Obviously, the CDS does not know the Socialist Party's Government Programme and will be ready to revoke the possibility of people getting married at the age of 16 and revoke criminal liability at the age of 16. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u23	We're talking about fundamental rights. The right to gender identity is at stake, the right of these people who are here in the galleries, and I invite the honourable Member to look forward to them, obviously due to the right to personal identity and the right to the development of personality as enshrined in Article 26. the Constitution. There is an urgent need for cross-sectional adoption of a regulatory framework that opens the gap to be completed after the entry into force of a then advanced brand of the Socialist Party, Law No 7/2011, in particular following international recommendations, and not a radical, clear agenda arising from a consensualization in the sense of recognition of the autonomy of trans people, i.e. depathology of the change of sex. People know who they are and they know what they are. That's what this is about. The paradigm of pathology must be replaced by the paradigm of autonomy, in the name of the rule of law. It is in question the personal truth that Professors Gomes Canothilho and Vital Moreira speak. It's urgent, yes! We are talking about people who are victims of the harshest discrimination, highly misunderstood people and easy targets of active ignorance. It is urgent to respond with solutions to the daily dramas experienced by trans people, resulting from the perverse deviations to the law in force, from the discrimination felt and experienced in all domains of their lives and from the clinical look that breaks down on their lives. There is nothing fracturing in this matter. There is respect for a fundamental right and it is urgent. The current regime is partial and inadequate and there are people waiting for the rest of their lives. We know that there are those who insist on being against these people, as you heard now. That is what we are talking about: those who now reject, as, moreover, rejected in 2011 — some even proposing the sterilization of trans men — the right to gender identity, reject individuals. It rejects, in fact, an open society where we all fell. They are the advocates of a unique model of person, of family, of affection; they will not see paradise on earth while marriage is equal, while all and all can be parents and mothers regardless of their sexual orientation; they are the ones who have lived for decades on a long journey through inequality. Those who are attentive to the requirements of an open society viewed by our Basic Law, who are attentive to international consensus on the concrete configuration of fundamental rights know that trans people have the rest of their lives waiting for respect. May the rest of your lives be respected, with the contribution of all bills and diplomas here under discussion. [[Congratulations from the PS, the PAN and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u24	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela Guerra has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives we are discussing today on the legal regime of changing gender identity, which, in our view, is not, as should be and in the first place, the defence of human rights but, rather, the implementation of a fracturing agenda, of social transformation, in which we are absolutely convinced, most Portuguese are not. However, by analyzing the three initiatives, we can conclude that they have a common core: first, the elimination of the requirement of presentation of a clinical report in the procedure of legal recognition of gender identity and, second, the possibility of minors between 16 and 18 years of age require the procedure of change of sex in civil registration and, consequently, the modification of the name itself through their legal representatives. The PSD does not share this frantist agenda, especially at a political time when it is interested in diverting the attention of citizens, or it is not time for an actual election and we will be about two weeks away from starting the budget debate. But as always, we do not quit the debate. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] We are not indifferent to the constraints experienced by transsexuals in our country and we value the importance of the right already enshrined in the law, to gender self-determination, which consists of the change in accordance with the birth seat. We know that these processes, by their very nature, are unquestionably complex and suffered for their own families. We recognize in 2010 at the time of discussion of this issue in Parliament the advantages of removing these proceedings from the judicial forum, which took place from 2011 with the approval of the current Law, which has established a legally recognizedly modern and also progressive framework. We are therefore currently included in the group of European countries such as Austria, Denmark, Germany, Holland, Malta, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Spain, among others, which legally recognise transsexuality, not requiring any medical intervention or surgery in the amount of the legal sex change procedure. however, and even though no previous medical acts are required, however, in a process and in a decision with the dimension we are discussing today, it is essential for us that there is a scientific, thorough and credible evidence, a report prepared by a multidisciplinary clinical team that attests and guarantees the unequivocal will of the applicant requesting this change. As we know, registration is only an act that is intended to give publicity and to ensure the authenticity of what is conferred, by translating the necessary legal certainty into the legal order, and therefore, before the conservative who conducts such a public act, there must be a very clear process which leads him to change the name and registration of the person concerned safely, without any doubt as to the situation that is put. Finally, the Government's proposal, even with regard to minors and transsexual children, establishes a regime which, for us, is not clear as to its registration, is not admissible to include in the civil register the birth of a child with indeterminate sex and to leave the identification of her gender open until she makes a decision of what she intends to take. in the proposal for a government law, we believe, for example at this level, there is an absolute incongruence between Article 7. Article 9, paragraph 2, and Article 9. , paragraph 2, even reaching the limit, as does the NAP on its initiative, not to dedicate any minimum age or — ridiculous, we say! — as the Left Block does at its initiative, proposing that children be able to prosecute their parents in court. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u26	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u27	I shall now conclude, Mr President. But what society is this in which you are. Members advocate that 16-year-olds are not mature enough to vote, drive or drink alcohol, but do they think that their parents are confronted with a court trial because they do not authorize a minor child to perform an intervention that will definitely change his life? Oh, my God! For the PSD it is not conceivable that a law of this nature can be so simplistic, contradictory and even omitive on issues that, from a medical and humanistic point of view, are absolutely incontrovertible for us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u28	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u29	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: First of all, I would like to commend the Government for its initiative to the Assembly of the Republic. It seems to me that this is the most comprehensive proposal that has been put forward by other parties on the same subject. I would like to say that, for the Greens, what is at stake here is a matter of equal rights, including other designations that have been given in other interventions on this matter. But in our perspective, it is to guarantee respect for society by the identity of each person, and this cannot be the society or third parties to determine, it is the person who knows what it is. Let us say, then, that it is the right that a person can actually be what he is and not that they force him to be what he really is not — and this is not a minor issue. Several interventions have already mentioned here Law No. 7 / 2011 of 15 March, which allowed the legal change of name and sex, of female for male or male for female. However, with medical evaluation. Now, in my view, what is at stake here today, in the sense of whether it stays or changes, is the question of whether it is a mental health problem or not. If we all come to the conclusion—and I think that no one has said it here—that it is a mental health problem, we cannot move forward with the proposals under discussion here. If it is considered, in opposition, that this is not a mental health problem, we have a duty to move forward with this legislation. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members — and this is for those most prejudiced and those who are governed by great stereotypes — the World Health Organization believes that it is not and the Council of Europe also believes that it is not. Therefore, there is, in fact, a path of respect for all elements of society, which society itself is obliged to. We are dealing effectively — and that is what should move us also in our political intervention — about the happiness of every element of our society, so that people are not tied up according to certain rules and certain stereotypes that at no point benefit the happiness of society itself. And this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to say what? That the Greens will vote in favour of the initiatives under discussion here. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u30	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u31	Mr. President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, it is totally false that the government bill or the left block bill provides that minor children can process their parents. That's a nonsense that's not even allowed by law. What these initiatives do, and very well, is to reaffirm that the State should protect, as do all the processes for the promotion and protection of minors and, in case of disagreement, representing these minors, to ensure the best interest of these minors, which is to see their identity respected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u32	This is not a debate, Mrs Deputy, about false news, about ideological obsessions or about the ghosts on the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u34	It is a debate about concrete people, about conditions to reduce suffering. It is a debate on respect for dignity, self-determination, human rights, the right to gender identity. And, of course, this Parliament will once again take a step towards respect for people and for human rights. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, The Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u35	For an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary-General has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a matter in which respect for identity, respect for self-determination of citizens and citizens is at stake. We therefore do not have the legitimacy of turning a matter of fundamental rights into a very short-term party dispute. What is at stake here is respect for those who, in their distress, are subject to discrimination in education, health, in the world of work. What this law will enshrine — and I call on all those who, in their specialty, find — is what underpins today the synthesis of the debate on this subject, which is one more step forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u37	Mr Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u38	One more step in respect for human rights, one more step in respect for those who are equal to all of us, one more step in the path of the right to happiness, which is enshrined in an initiative with which we are committed in the programme with which I presented myself to the elections and in the Government Programme. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u39	Mrs. Members, finished this discussion, we went to the debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 593 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the functional segregation of the resolution authority within the Banco de Portugal ( PSD ), 594 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 228/2000 of 23 September establishing the National Council of Financial Supervisors ( PSD ), 595 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthens the transparency and incompatibilities and impediments of Banco de Portugal's administrators and leaders ( PSD ), 596 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August approving the framework law of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors ( PSD ) and 597 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Forty-fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December establishing the general arrangements for credit institutions and financial corporations ( PSD ) together with draft resolution No 1035 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the financial supervisory mechanisms of the European Union and the completion of the banking union ( PSD ). To present these initiatives, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years, few sectors within the European Union have been the target of such drastic changes and developments as the financial sector. The crises of subprime in the United States of America, as well as the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, led to the identification of the need for a long-established paradigm change in Europe, culminating in the creation of a banking union which has as its main objective the creation of a more transparent, unified and secure banking and financial market. The reason for this amendment was, above all, the close relationship between the public finances of the various Member States and their financial agents and the consequent real possibility, if the financial risk is transferred to the sovereign risk, of spreading an impact of contamination within the Union. Thus, the Single Supervisory Mechanism ( MUS ) and the Single Resolution Mechanism ( MUR ) emerged, among others, in an effort to make the market safer and avoid costly and unnecessary costs for taxpayers. Assuming that monetary union is still incomplete, however, it is urgent to improve its construction, based on national and European plans, based on experience accumulated in recent years. at the European level, it is notable that the banking union is incomplete, visible in delays in the creation of the single deposit guarantee system, as well as in the absence of the guarantee of timely operationalization and common financial support for the full and effective entry into service of the Single Resolution Fund, processes that have been frozen since the end of 2015. At the same time, the pressing need to strengthen the mechanisms of scrutiny of the Single Monitoring and Resolution Mechanisms remains. at the national level, between 2012 and 2015, the creation or modification of more than a dozen laws resulted in: strengthening the supervisory powers; increasing the duties and reporting of information; strengthening the governance of financial institutions; controlling the suitability of managers; preventing conflicts of interest in the granting of credit to related parties; improving the information provided to investors; protecting taxpayers from shareholders and creditors; and developing a more appropriate sanction regime. Recent interventions in financial institutions in Portugal have shown problems and imbalances that relate to a previous model and paradigms of control and supervision, but we do not fail to consider precisely the need for changes that, without causing structural disruptions or disturbances in the national financial system, lead to the protection of taxpayers and sustained confidence in the market and institutions. This need is, moreover, reflected in various draft resolutions and bills discussed at parliamentary level, as well as in the reports of parliamentary committees of inquiry to financial system institutions. in this sense, and in view of the factors exposed, the experience of recent years and the conclusions and recommendations of the Assembly of the Republic, the PSD Parliamentary Group presents a set of proposals affecting six aspects: completion of banking union, functional segregation of the resolution authority, still maintaining within the Banco de Portugal ; strengthening the role of the National Council of Financial Supervisors ( CSF ) and coordination between Banco de Portugal ( BdP ), ASF ( Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Pension Funds ) and CMM ( Market Committee for Securities) ; strengthening the independence and autonomy of CMM and ASF ; promoting more demanding transparency rules and strengthening incompatibilities and impediments ; and mitigating conflicts of interest and strengthening eligibility criteria. in order to complete the banking union, the draft resolution we present proposes to the other national parliaments of the Member States of the European Union, through the green card mechanism, that they present to the European Commission Community legislative initiatives to : promote the gradual integration of the supervision of securities and markets by strengthening and extending the direct supervisory responsibility of the European Securities and Markets Authority ; to complete the banking union with the implementation of the European deposit guarantee system within one year; and to develop the creation of a European monetary fund, which, among other functions, absorbs the European Stability Mechanism ( EEM ), and therefore assumes the role of the ultimate lender of the common resolution fund. This initiative further recommends that the Government make the necessary efforts to the European bodies, in particular the European Council, the Eurogroup and the European Commission, to develop legislative initiatives in the same direction. The model of resolution adopted in Portugal was based on the principle that it was the macroprudential supervisor who functions as a resolution authority and also the operationalization of the sale of transitional institutions. A radical rupture, within the framework of a strengthened role of the Single Supervisory Mechanism, could contain perverse risks and transition costs, and it is up to the legislator to safeguard not only the interest of taxpayers but also the best institutional functioning possible, within the framework of resolution mechanisms in the financial system. Thus, we propose a strengthening of functional segregation between resolution and macroprudential supervisory powers, taking into account the needs identified over the past few years and mirrored in the White Paper on Financial Sector Regulation and Supervision. The National Council of Financial Supervisors, established in 2000, has as its primary objective the coordination and sharing of information between supervisors. however, one of the main weaknesses publicly pointed out, either through parliamentary committees of inquiry to the financial system, or through media and expert opinion, was precisely the absence of timely and effective articulation between regulatory entities. in the White Paper on Financial Sector Regulation and Supervision are identified three main causes for CNSF inefficiency : the absence of institutionalization of this Council, which, having no legal personality, was condemned to a degree of informality incompatible with the desirable and necessary criteria of maximum efficiency in the articulation of information relating to supervision and financial regulation ; the absence of a clear mandate, governed by law ; and the institutional imbalance between the three supervisory powers, the Bank of Portugal, the CMM and the ASF. In order to find a solution to the above-mentioned weaknesses, this initiative attaches a clear mandate and a greater degree of autonomy to a more parity CSF. It proposes that the Council be endowed with its own legal personality and, in its dependence, a standing committee which will, in turn, constitute the working groups which it considers necessary to fulfil and execute the mandate defined by our own initiative and by its own regulation. The CNSF shall have permanent and limited human resources and shall also be provided with financial resources through equal contributions by the three supervisory entities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u41	It is our deep conviction that the independent and autonomous exercise of regulation and supervision activity is fundamental in a democratic and plural society, where there remains a market that wants to be dynamic and functional. Considering the need to promote greater cooperation and coordination between financial supervisory bodies, to strengthen the independence and autonomy of the institutions and to strengthen the National Council of Financial Supervisors, we also propose the strengthening of the organic and budgetary autonomy of the CMM and the ASF, organic and budgetary autonomy which today has the Banco de Portugal. following the most recent episodes of intervention in the financial system, the exercise of supervisory activity is today more scolded than ever, in both parliamentary work and by society as a whole. This is a positive development, to which we must correspond properly. in this sense, we propose the extension of the spectrum of incompatibilities and impediments, as well as the deepening of the exercise of transparency of the holders of responsibilities in financial supervision. In particular, this will go through the forecast of periods of disgust for administrators and directors with supervisory responsibilities that are transferred to functions in supervised entities, including cases of return to original functions, i.e. performed prior to the exercise of positions in financial supervision. We also propose that supervisors maintain a public record of meetings and meetings with external entities, in addition to disclosure of income and heritage declarations and of offers accepted as incumbents. in the case of holders of financial institutions, it is proposed that the professional curriculum and potential conflicts of interest arising from functions exercised directly or indirectly with the financial institution concerned or through social participation or commercial relations should also be considered. It is also proposed to prohibit the granting of credit or guarantees to members of their administrative or supervisory bodies or to companies by those arrested or controlled. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The experience of recent years has highlighted the importance of confidence in the financial system, both for family decisions and for business decisions and for the availability and financing costs faced by the various national economic agents, including the State itself. Despite much that has been done to improve supervision and correct the problems identified, it is important to continue the effort and to continue to improve the existing supervisory model. Avoiding unnecessary risks associated with ruptures in relation to the existing model, including its articulation and integration with the European architecture resulting from the banking union, this set of proposals contributes to the credibility and effectiveness of financial supervision, safeguarding its independence and autonomy from political power, and at the same time increasing demand and accountability of supervisors themselves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u42	Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, three Mrs. Members to request clarifications: Mr Paulo Sá, from the Parliamentary Group of the PCP, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, and Mrs Cecília Meireles, from the Parliamentary Group of the CDS. The honourable Member will do well to inform the Bureau of how she wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u43	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u44	He then has the floor, first of all, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, the PSD Parliamentary Group today brings to debate a set of bills and a draft resolution that introduce alleged improvements in the control and supervision mechanisms of banking activity. Such changes, allegedly, would lead to the safeguarding of taxpayers' interests and would help to avoid problems in banks such as those in the past. But, Mrs. Member, isn't that exactly what the PSD said years ago after the BPN scandal? Should not the changes to the monitoring and supervision mechanisms carried out at that time have prevented the disassembly in other banks? How, then, does the honourable Member explain that, despite all the improvements introduced at the time, the supervisor has not been able to make an adequate follow-up to BES? And why did improvements in the regulatory and supervisory mechanisms introduced after the collapse of BES not prevent Banif from escalating? Mrs Deputy, how does it justify that between 2011 and 2015 when she was in the government with the finance portfolio, despite all the supervisory mechanisms existing at the time, the PSD not only allowed situations such as BES and BANIF to have had the developments that are still known as having participated in the operation of the real situation of these two banks through public statements by the then Prime Minister, Mrs Deputy as Minister of Finance and even the President of the Republic? It was not due to lack of supervisory mechanisms that occurred the scandals of BPN, BPP, BES or BANIF.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u46	Oh, go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u47	These situations occurred due to political options for the promotion of large capital, in particular options of the previous Government, PSD / CDS. The problem is not in the lack of regulation and supervision, it is not in the dishonesty of this or that banker or in the competence of that or that supervisor, it is not in the lack of segregation between the supervisory authority and the resolution authority, nor in the absence of institutionalization of the National Council of Financial Supervisors, nor in the absence of advertising of the income and heritage of the owners of the boards of administration of independent administrative entities. in a framework in which the financial system is controlled by large monopoly groups and placed at the service of the interests of these groups, in which the political option of successive governments was the promotion of large capital, supervision will always be ineffective and taxpayers will always be called to pay off bankers. In order not to have to admit this, which would have as a logical consequence the recognition of the need to place the financial system under public control, the PSD and other parties regularly make the number of the improvement of regulation and supervision to feed the illusion that something is being done, when essentially everything continues to be done: monopolistic groups control the financial system and put it to their service and, when things go wrong, the policy of favouring large economic and financial groups presents the bill to workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u48	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, I would like to note that we do not fail to find a bit strange when the PSD chooses to bring these proposals. The Assembly of the Republic held a large debate, or at least an extended debate on supervision and banking regulation in April last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u50	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u51	There were several approved projects, nine of them went down to a working group that already exists in the Committee on Budgets and Finance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u53	... and the PSD, which at the time did not present any proposal on this matter, comes, after several months, finally, to try to recover the lost time. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Costa Neves.]] I'm glad it is. Here come the PSD proposals, it's worth more late than ever. most of these are palliative proposals, as has already been said. There is no problem with palliative proposals, we must assume what they are: they are proposals that do not go to the structure of the functioning of the financial system and are therefore not directed to prevent new crises nor will they remedy what is fundamental to happening and fundamental failures in supervisory mechanisms. These are proposals that meet a number of principles that, in general, we can even follow, such as the principles of transparency and the system of incompatibility, but once again there is a committee for transparency here, in the Assembly of the Republic, and I do not think it makes sense to have this debate with open proposals without falling into a broader debate which is already taking place here. As for the strengthening of joint mechanisms in the National Council of Financial Supervisors, I tell you with all sincerity, based on what we could see in the last committees of inquiry, which I think even an ingenious idea of the PSD understands that, by conferring legal personality to this body, if the problems of linkage between Banco de Portugal, CMVM, the various institutions, partly because this is not just an articulation problem, is a problem of assignment of functions, it is an institutional problem, but it is also a problem of the functioning of financial markets, in which the border between what are the banking system and the financial system is less and less drawn. Today, we cannot know what credit is created in the banking system or in an investment fund and therefore it makes little sense to have separate supervision and is not creating or conferring legal personality to an organ, which has already shown itself that it has not worked, that this problem will be solved. Finally, I must also say that I find it surprising that the honourable Member and the PSD now recognize that they have created a conflict of interest by handing over the power to solve and sell banks to the same entity that had already been supervised by the financial system, which is the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u54	There he is! Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u55	This is a conflict of interests that has been created by the lawmaker and therefore I would like to know whether the PSD is also available to extend this self-criticism and assume that it was a mistake to leave Portugal in a situation where the European authorities decide on the resolution of Portuguese banks but do not pay the account nor is it distributed in solidarity in Europe. It is that the resolution fund that is created is solely the responsibility of the Portuguese State and was empty when it was created, having been financed by all the Portuguese taxpayers, who bear the responsibility for these interventions that were made in the bank. I would therefore like to know whether the honourable Member and the PSD are available to assume a self-criticism about everything that went wrong in this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u56	For the last request for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, in fact six months ago, the CDS made an inquiry to the Government on banking supervision, here in the Assembly of the Republic, and, following this inquiry, several projects were approved — not only from the CDS but from several other parties — projects that have been completely stopped for six months, basically waiting for some contribution from the Government. It is also true that it seems that yesterday the government decided to make this contribution through a working group with some suggestions, not knowing exactly what will happen from there. The first question I put to you, Mrs Deputies, is whether you agree with the view of this working group, which seems to be that of the Government too, that the only problem of supervision in Portugal is the architecture of the system. The second question is whether, by creating a great supervisor, the supervisor of the supervisors, and within him another body with autonomy dealing with the resolution, all problems will be solved. I believe that the PSD shows very well that you think you can go a lot beyond this and that there are many other problems beyond this, but I would also like to know if it feels reasonable to you that, in the face of a problem, we simply create another organ, plus one section, plus one department that magically solves all the problems. Secondly, because the problem and the issue are not only national, they are also Europeans, and the PSD presents a draft resolution on this issue, defending the European Monetary Fund and the European Deposit Guarantee System, Mrs Member, I would like to say the following: I understand the problem you are trying to solve, which is a real problem. It is that in the current state of affairs, in fact, the decision is practically all transferred to the European bodies, the European bodies decide, but the consequences and the account come to the national bodies and to the Portuguese taxpayer. In fact, it is a serious problem. What I ask you is that the European Monetary Fund and the European Deposit Guarantee System alone solve this issue, because I think they solve part of the matter, part of the account. But I ask you: will you solve the problem of having European institutions which are supposed to defend competition but which, in practice, and in the Portuguese case, have mainly defended concentration? In our view, it seems that what DG Comp (General Competition Directorate) has done is not a defence of competition, it is a defence of concentration, with damage to national interests and Portuguese interests. Finally, because the European Union is made by several States, I asked you if it is not reasonable to imagine that a currency of exchange will be requested for this solidarity of responsibilities. It is that a European Monetary Fund and a European Deposit Guarantee System, of course, imply rendering all responsibilities that are not all States, some are. So from the point of view of this exchange currency, we have to do this analysis and this evaluation and what I ask you is: what is the position of the PSD? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u58	In reply, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by order of business. Mr Paulo Sá, the improvements in the law unfortunately do not prevent problems, but they make us less likely, and above all, the law must seek to create mechanisms that combat these consequences. I recall in my initial speech that the problems that occurred during the previous government period, the problems with BES and BANIF, were generated with a supervisory model prior to that which was introduced during the years of the adjustment period - were manifested at that time, but came from the previous model. Much has been done to improve this situation, to improve the quality of supervision, nationally and at European level, but the problems that have come back have not disappeared because of this. What we are advocating is that this is a model that must continue to be improved, but we also defend — and you know this perfectly — that there must continue to be private banks, yes. In fact, I would point out that the honourable Member has repeatedly said « monopoly groups », which in itself is a contradiction in terms, because if he is monopolistic he is only one.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u60	The meaning is not the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u61	I would draw attention to the fact that the public bank has also had problems, that mistakes have also been made in the public bank, that supervision in the public bank has not seen what it should have seen either. So we're not going to confuse things and we're not going to say that public management is necessarily good and private management is necessarily bad. You know that we do not agree with this, there must be strict rules for everyone, regardless of the ownership of financial institutions. The problem will be in what agents do and the responsibility of those who propose legislation is to create the conditions for as much compliance as possible, as much respect as possible and instruments by supervisory bodies to actually play their role. Mrs Mariana Mortágua says that it is strange when these proposals are put forward, which is already late. Mr Deputies, we anticipate the Government and the majority, who still started a public consultation process yesterday, and only after the outcome of this public consultation will there be a proposal. So it seems to me that we have arrived long enough and that it will also have been on this initiative that the government finally decided to come to play and present its own proposals. The honourable Member believes that they are palliative proposals, we believe that there should not be a break with the existing model, especially since, as has already been mentioned, and not only by me, there is a European architecture that will obviously integrate this national supervision. There is already a common supervisory mechanism and a common resolution mechanism today, so it makes no sense to make changes in our structure which then make the adequacy and relationship with these European entities impossible and inadequate. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Having already given some answers to the questions put by Mrs Cecília Meireles, what comes to the proposals of the working group - and we do not yet know whether the Government will subscribe them in full, but it has already begun by considering them to be moderate and appropriate - is in fact in the wake of what has been the European trend.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u62	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u63	... and, surely, it will cause great difficulties of articulation, in particular in what is a government entry into the powers and responsibilities of supervision and resolution, which I do not see how it will then be possible to articulate, in view of the fact that the government does not have a seat in the bodies that decide these matters at European level, beyond, of course, our concerns regarding the guarantee of independence and the preservation of granular information on the financial system,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... that it is not at all desirable to be aware of the government, in order to avoid totally undesirable interference like some of us have seen in the past. It does not seem reasonable to be creating organs, much less to create a supervisor to send to the existing supervisor, because in the initial attempt it was not possible to remove a supervisor from which the current majority assumes it does not like. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles, on the issues she raises, is true, and that is a problem for which we have often called attention, which is the fact that there is an account coming to our country with decisions taken at European level. That is why we call on the other Member States and other parliaments to put forward initiatives to allow this situation to cease to exist, complementing the banking union, which is still incomplete. The sharing of responsibilities should also result in sharing the associated costs and that is what the PSD advocates, as it has always defended in the past, an improvement in institutional architecture, both economic and monetary union ( EMU ) and banking union itself. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u64	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today discussing a set of PSD proposals which, in the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, mix different themes. That is why we will have three interventions: mine is on the question of the supervisory model, Mr Trigo Pereira will talk about the issues of conflicts of interest and transparency and then Mrs Margarida Marques will talk about the European agenda. I believe that the Socialist Party agrees with some of the diagnoses presented here by Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, particularly regarding the need to learn from the current supervisory model and what has happened in recent times in relation to several banks. What we think is that, although we agree with the PSD that something has to change, we disagree with the changes proposed, because we understand that they do not touch the fundamental problem. First, let us look at the issue of the resolution. The PSD says there should be no institutional revolution. I do not know whether there should be an institutional revolution or not, I understand that we should clearly withdraw teachings from what went well and from what went wrong, and in our understanding the PSD does not do so. If we look at the existing proposals on the issue of the resolution, the PSD even falls short of the Banco de Portugal's proposal. in its White Paper, the Banco de Portugal even says, and I quote : « (...) must be secreted from the sphere of central banks... », the issue of the resolution, «... since otherwise conflicts of interest may arise, detrimental to the role of central banks in relation to regulated entities ». However, segregation is not what the PSD proposes and it is strange that the PSD speaks here of the need to reconcile the architecture of the national supervisory model with what exists at European level when, at European level, the resolution authority is segregated from the central bank, it is not an entity with functional independence within the European Central Bank, it is an autonomous entity. And, therefore, if you think that we should make our architecture compatible, as far as possible, with European architecture, then what would be logical was to move forward — in fact, as the Banco de Portugal itself recommends and as stated in the report by the working group yesterday made public — for the full segregation of these functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u66	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u67	Only thus does the conflict of interests which apparently the PSD recognizes existed in the processes since this law was created. On the other hand, on the issue of the National Council of Financial Supervisors ( CNSF ), we agree with the PSD when it says that this Council does not work, but we do not believe that the measures necessary for it to function can maintain the relationship of a body that is merely advisory of the Banco de Portugal. This is because the conflict of interest exists precisely because there is an imbalance between the Banco de Portugal and the other institutions. Therefore, once again in line with what exists in the European Union, the European Systemic Risk Committee does not belong to the Central Bank, is an autonomous entity, where of course the European Central Bank has seats, its President is Mario Draghi. in the same way, the institution proposed yesterday in the working group, which, as I said, is now in public consultation, does so. We have a separate institution of the Banco de Portugal, which would address in particular the issues of macroprudential supervision, where the three institutions would be present, not as an advisory role of the Banco de Portugal, but with effective participation in an autonomous entity dealing with these matters, once again in line with what is happening in the European Union. It seems a bit strange to us that the PSD here refers to and defends European architecture when it proposes an architecture against it and we can even say that it is incompatible with what exists in Europe. contrary to what the PSD said here, there is no interference by the government in the supervisory policy because on the resolution authority and macro-prudential authority, what is proposed in the report does not have any government intervention. Where there is a government intervention is in the Higher Council on Financial Policy ( PSC ), but an institution similar to it already exists today, where the Minister of Finance and the Government have seats. It seems to us of the most fundamental good sense that supervisory issues maintain independence, as is present in the report presented yesterday, but we must recognise that we cannot make the issues of macro-prudential supervision completely independent and the economic policy of the Government. There is no interference in the regulator, but there is the creation of a new institution, where this articulation is made. Madam Member, I will give you an example: according to what you have said, the PSD seems to agree that the whole resolution decision is separate from the sphere of government. There is only one problem: this would make sense if the Resolution Fund was fully capitalised and there was no intervention of public money, particularly the State budget, in resolution measures, but, in the situation that exists today, that does not happen. On the other hand, in line with the criticism made by the honourable Member to the decision taken by European institutions in which, after that, those who pay the account are the national institutions, it seems negative to us to make a similar model, where the Government would not have any participation in the resolution decision. It was important to maintain this, because otherwise what we would have was the Banco de Portugal in total autonomy of those who sent the State budget to make decisions and then the government to pay the bill. So we have some criticisms of the PSD proposals and it seems to us that the report released yesterday is a good starting point for a moderate but effective reform of the supervisory model. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u68	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As this debate continues, we must recognize that the European banking system, in particular Portuguese, remains in a situation of enormous fragility that has not only to do with the situation of its balance sheets but also with the absolute failure of the European institutional framework, which has been created to deal with banking crises, the so-called « banking union ». Economist João Salgueiro called it an aberration; economist Paul De Grawe called it a fiction and it is necessary to accept the criticisms that are made today to a failed project. The banking union was sold with two arguments, two theoretical principles. The first was to unravel the knot between governments and banks, forcing shareholders, creditors and depositors to suffer losses before reaching the public record — a good principle, no one talks. The second principle was to denationalise decisions and their cost by passing intervention powers to European authorities, such as the costs of such intervention to a European fund. Will they be good principles and good ideas? Maybe! They only have one problem: they don't work! They never worked, they don't work and they'll never work! And an idea that doesn't work is a bad idea at the start. And this is not an opinion, it is a matter of fact, very simple to prove. The question that needs to be answered is: how many banks have been involved under this mechanism? None! And opportunities were not lacking in Portugal or Italy. No bank has been intervened because the mechanism is not in force and does not work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u70	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u71	To begin with, it does not work because the European resolution fund, in which all countries share the costs of banking intervention, will never exist because Germany will never accept to pay for bankruptcy in a bank in Portugal. This is a political fiction, Germany will never pay for the intervention of a bank in Portugal! For Portugal, as we have seen in the past, it will be the European authorities to decide the losses of shareholders, depositors and creditors, without any consideration for systemic risk, and therefore without any consideration as to whether or not a systemic crisis can be created in the country where they are intervening, often not knowing the economic and social reality of that country. Therefore, the European authorities, on the basis of their decision in the offices of Brussels or Frankfurt or wherever they are from, will decide which losses will be borne by the State —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u73	... by the Portuguese State, paid by the Portuguese taxpayers who had nothing to say about the resolution process—and then left a threat to the states : « or sell these banks with loss, or liquidate us». This is the result of the banking union process for Portugal. In short, neither the knot between the government and the bank was disbanded, nor was there any vision of European solidarity, we paid the bill and we have no power to control these decisions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u74	And for Germany, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? For Germany is everything like before, Germany will never drop any banks. Germany will never drop the Deutsche Bank, nor will it ever allow any European authority to tell the German Government how it intervenes in the Deutsche Bank. It will intervene when it has to intervene, regardless of European rules. In practice, therefore, banking union is a political failure, it is a technical failure, which has not only solved any problems as it has aggravated all banking problems, and has served only one purpose, which is to promote banking concentration and large European banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u76	There is no doubt about this, and it is surprising that the PSD, who accompanied and even starred at any of these sad episodes of having to pay without making a decision, has no critical opinion about banking union, does not understand the political reality behind it and the political context of this banking union and comes here to insist on this process, as if it were a process that was running well or giving good results. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And so, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we know today is that neither the European Union nor Portugal are equipped to deal with financial crises. There is no doubt that if there is another crisis in the future, and we are not doing anything to prevent it, the European institutional framework is not equipped to deal with the crises and, worse than that, in this post-crisis period, it has not created any mechanism to prevent further crises, because everything that was at least regulated by financial systems and banking systems has been dropped, on behalf of this myrific authority or banking union. So we need to talk about how to avoid crises, starting with the supervision model. As has already been said in Portugal, we have an excessively concentrated supervisory model in Banco de Portugal, which confuses its role as monetary authority with its role as supervisor of the banking system, having superpowers that are not shared fairly with the other regulators. This is a practical institutional problem, but there are also non-practical institutional problems, i.e. that relate only to the Portuguese system, and that have to do with the functioning of the system. The credit that exists today to feed speculative bubbles is not created only by the banks, is created outside the banks, outside the balance sheets, by derivatives, by investment funds, by financial leverage, by institutions that are not under banking regulation, that act freely and form a shadow system that is outside our entire banking supervisory building. Therefore, in addition to a supervisory system capable of recognizing the new financial realities, the rules of the banking system need to be changed. There is, in a recent study by Reinhart and Rogoff — who are not quite economists very connected to the left but who have made a very interesting book on banking crises in the world — an impressive figure, for which they have mapped the different banking crises or the percentage of countries with banking crises since 1800, having reached two very interesting conclusions: the first is that banking crises increase exponentially when capital mobility increases exponentially (so, the more mobile and less capable of being controlled for capital, the more banking crises there will be) ; the second is that, surprisingly, between 1950 and 1980, there are no banking crises in the world and they start to increase, in an incredible way, starting from 1980. It is not necessary to know much about the history of the capitalist system in order to realize that the 30 years in which there were no banking crises were the years when the system was more regulated, in which there was a separation between investment bank and commercial bank, in which there was control of capital, restrictions on financial activity, speculation and banking activity. And it was also the 30 years in which there was no prejudice for public property to take account of the destinations of the bank, which tried to adapt a little more to the production system. [[Congratulations from BE.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge is that we stop talking about ideological taboos and are able to discuss, from a rational point of view, how it is done to make the bank no longer merely an instrument of speculation and become an instrument of support for the productive economy. How is speculation limited? How is the leverage capacity limited? How is the endogenous capacity that the bank has to create crises and to be an eternally unstable mechanism capable of causing instability in economies limited? [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u77	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u78	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that, without discussing the operation of the bank, we will always be running behind the damage. But on this subject, the debate is very early and the PSD has so far had little to say. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u79	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Banking supervision, within the framework of the capitalist financial system, is an insufficient and inefficient control mechanism. It is insufficient because the objective conditions in which the supervisor develops his mission do not allow for an intrusive presence and effective control over the accounts and practices of the financial system. It is inefficient because the supervisor is an emanation of the banking system and not a public instrument of scrutiny and effective control. In Portugal, supervision did not prevent the collapse of any bank and was not even able to intervene in order to prevent fraudulent practices of the bank. The collapse of BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ), originating in a harmful management, led to the strengthening of the powers of bank supervisors and regulators, but this did not prevent the same problems from occurring at BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) on an even greater scale. The BES case, in turn, led to the further strengthening of supervision and more regulation, but this did not prevent the collapse of BANIF, some time later. It is not worth feeding illusions, thinking that the addition of successive layers of regulation and supervision will prevent the financial system from parasitising the economy, diverting resources to speculation, exploring bank clients or misleading those who need to resort to credit. The successive scandals of the financial system that have occurred in recent years show, to the exhaustion, that the financial system controlled by monopolistic capital is always a step ahead of the legislator and supervisor, succeeding in circumventing the law and circumventing supervision. The problem is not in the bad character of any banker or incompetence of a certain supervisor. The problem lies in the fact that the financial system is controlled by monopoly capital and placed at the service of the interests of that capital. Thus, as the CFP has been defending, only the public control of the bank will solve the problem, ensuring the stability of the financial system and safeguarding the public interest. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members, the 2007 financial crisis, an expression of the deepening of the structural crisis of capitalism, led to a gigantic channelling of public money into the financial system. in the European Union, the cost of this rescue operation will have risen to the astronomical value of EUR 1, EUR 5 million. In order to create the illusion, with the workers and the people, that something would change, the institutions of the European Union launched dozens of legislative acts, which, allegedly, would ensure that all actors and products of the financial system would now be properly supervised. On the basis of this intervention of responsible and moralizing appearance, another unconfessed objective was to use the crisis to concentrate, increasingly, the capital, the financial system and the political power associated with it. It was in this framework that the European Union decided to move forward towards the banking union, a project of banking concentration and transfer of the capital of the banks, but which is sold to the public as an instrument to prevent European taxpayers from paying the invoice in a future crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u81	Very well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u82	in the specific case of Portugal, it is clear the guidelines of the European Central Bank for large Spanish banks to assume an increasingly significant share of the capital of the Portuguese banks. If there were any doubts, it would be sufficient to look at the case of BANIF, where the European Union imposed the sale of this bank to Santander after the Portuguese State had spent more than EUR 2000 million on the resolution process. The first pillar of the banking union, the Single Supervisory Mechanism, placed the four largest Portuguese banks, including the public bank, under the direct supervision of the European Central Bank. by participating in the banking union, Portugal saw its sovereignty even more limited in a sector vital to the economy. The defenders of this process repeatedly invoke that the ECB's direct intervention ( European Central Bank ) improves the quality of banking supervision. This is an argument denied by reality. Immediately before taking single supervision, the ECB promoted the famous stress tests to the largest European banks, not detecting problems in BES and BANIF. in that same year, BES collapsed and some time later was BANIF. in fact, the supervision carried out by the ECB is sick of the very problems of supervision conducted by the Banco de Portugal : it is insufficient, it is inefficient. For the CFP, it is evidence that the purpose of the Single Supervisory Mechanism is, above all, to hinder, even more, any public control by national States over their financial systems. Moreover, the second pillar of the banking union, the Single Resolution Mechanism, is a huge mess. Covered by a pretentious morality and accountability, it aims to deepen the concentration of the banking system and the financial integration of the European Union. In short, the banking union serves two central objectives: to create the illusion that something is being done about the supervision of the financial system, so that everything will remain in it, and to facilitate the gigantic processes of concentration of the banking system at European level. It is not surprising, therefore, that the European megabanks and the sharks of the financial system support this process. from the PCP, we reaffirm the rejection of banking union and the need to regain national sovereignty over a strategic sector for the economy of our country. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the urgent need to consolidate the overallity of the banking system and to contain systemic risks to the economy, to ensure effective regulation, supervision and supervision of the bank and, in a broader perspective, the need to channel savings and financial resources for investment in national production require that the financial system be placed under public control and control. This is the way in which national interests serve. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u83	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any further requests for speech. I'm just making a waiting compass before we move on to the next item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on banking supervision is a debate that calls on everyone and often leads us to talk about matters that go far beyond banking supervision. I think the first question that is worth asking is whether we think things have gone well or gone wrong and if we think changes should be in detail or substance. The CDS has had a critical position in relation to supervision and it seems to us that changes have to be of substance. Therefore, as a first note, it seems to us that reducing this debate to the architecture of the supervisory bodies is impoverishing this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u85	So let it all be the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u86	But when we start from the assumption that it will not be unanimously shared here, but, I believe, it is shared by many Portuguese people—that banking supervision has worked badly, it does not seem to us that creating a supervisor of supervisors is the solution, because otherwise, 10 years from now, when we have the supervisor of supervisors working badly, we will create what? The supervisor's supervisor? Oh, my God! As it also does not seem to make sense to me — when we are part of the principle, which is true, and that it is true, that the supervisors have not articulated themselves — rather than making it clear that they have to articulate, we create a new organ to replace this articulation, which is not made. Well, frankly! , won't it be easier for supervisors to talk to each other? Oh, my God! I think we're creating organs on top of organs, which make the system more and more complex, will make supervision more fragile and not stronger. in the same way, it seems to me that the strengthening of independence is positive, but it has not been accompanied by a strengthening of governance in certain areas. The second note, because not all discussions go back to institutional design, has to do with fundamental issues, and European issues, monetary union and banking union are not side by side. But even though these discussions are made with many technical terms and in an unintelligible way, there is a principle that is fundamental in these matters, as in many others: Europe has to have equal rules for all. And we have often heard European leaders make speeches, and well, inflamed against extreme-right and extreme-left populisms, but I think that Europe, if it meets this basic principle that the rules are the same for all, will do much more against these populist movements than those 40 or 50 speeches. The truth is, in this matter, as unfortunately in several others, the rules have not been the same for all, quite the contrary. Every time a problem needs to be solved in countries, there are different rules. It is obvious that recently the rules applied in Italy have been different from those applied in Portugal and from those applied in Spain and the recognition of this reality—which, of course, from the point of view of the CDS, is a critical and problematic reality—that leads us to recognize that the deepening of the European monetary fund and the European deposit guarantee system is necessary to combat the problem of having bodies to make decisions and then be the national authorities and taxpayers to pay them, but this does not make us forget this fundamental problem, that there are different solutions, depending on countries. In Portugal, this has been particularly visible over time, in particular with a Directorate-General which is supposed to defend competition but which in practice has defended concentration. This is what happened, for example, with the decision that led the Portuguese State to pay Santander to stay with Banif. Interestingly, the same bank Santander, with which the Portuguese State then made an agreement to pay him extrajudicially, to pay him the swaps with a loan— guess who? — from Santander itself, he sent the interest account to the Portuguese State and it stood with more than 1000 million on our behalf. Interestingly, it is the same Santander that is also with the People's Bank, in a Europe that said it was necessary to avoid banking institutions that were too large to be able to fail.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u87	It's concentration!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u88	But then what is this, if not the creation of too large banking institutions to fail? As long as we are not available to discuss these problems as well and how this concentration is particularly problematic, especially for a country like Portugal, I believe that we will hardly come to a solution. It is also important that what is going on in the New Bank is accompanied in this way. We had a competitive procedure that ended in a way substantially different from the way it had begun and the doubt continues in the air: the conditions that are now on the table, there would be interested or not more interested and different interested who could, from a strategic point of view, be that which is the national interest and the Portuguese interest, avoid, once again, that this Bank was the subject of another process of concentration in banks which are simply not Portuguese. This often does not arise from the market, but from action in European bodies. This is a subject that has to be discussed and which is worth discussing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u89	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As mentioned above, the PSD has presented a legislative package containing several bills on relatively different themes, one of which has to do with transparency and incompatibilities. Our first perplexity in this matter concerns the fact that, at the moment in the Assembly of the Republic, the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions which still accepts the introduction of new draft laws. So I ask: why did this diploma enter here and not enter the Event Commission? Maybe there's an explanation for this. In fact, there are two PSDs: there is a moderate and responsible social-democrat PSD and there is a populist and radical PSD. [[PSD protests.]] of the five bills that the PSD presents, there are three that are moderate and there are two that are radical, and I will explain why. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u91	That analysis is very benevolent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u92	They must have raised their hair to Mr. Luís Marques Guedes, who is part of this Eventual Commission, when he read the projects of lein. 595 / XIII and 596 / XIII. I have come to see if you have signed them and have not signed them. Why? I would like to explain, for everyone to know: these draft laws provide that for the administrators of Banco de Portugal, for directors with supervisory responsibilities and for the administrators of regulatory entities, the statements of their income and assets, the offers and hospitality received and the registration of all meetings with external entities should be included on the website of their institutions. Well, if we compare this project presented here and discussed today with the project that the same PSD, but the more moderate, the more responsible, presented to the Event Commission, we can see the differences. They're abissals! For example, by applying to Members, what needs to be placed on the Internet site is only declarations of conflicts of interest and incompatibilities. So we realize the radicalism of these PSD proposals. But it is not just radicalism, it is also inconsistencies. Why? It's just they didn't even do the housework well done. Well done housework would have compared the regime they now propose to the administrators and directors of Banco de Portugal with that of the directors and administrators of independent regulators. If they are remembered, amendments to the Framework Law of Independent Administrative Entities were adopted a few months ago, i.e. in May.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u93	Who approved that?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u94	That's not the point! The question is that what is in force is two years for Banco de Portugal administrators and independent regulators, and what the PSD is proposing today is a one-year reduction. For directors with supervisory responsibilities, such a period of disgust is sufficient to be one night. They stay there for a while and even get half the pay! By the way, everyone knows that according to the PSD proposal they receive half the salary even if they have a good job in a private, an unregulated company. Therefore, they continue to receive and this period is reduced to one year. These are radical, inconsistent and inconsistent proposals. There is one more thing that is very important to mention: Have you ever considered meetings with external entities maturely? Let's imagine that Banco de Portugal has five meetings with bank x that have problems in two weeks. Therefore, what the PSD bench wants, the radical bench, is that this information is on the Internet so that the markets, everyone, the Portuguese society, “distance to a click” — using an expression of an individual candidate — are known to have a bank that was five times before talking to the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. Do you think this is sensible? Well, perhaps, the radical wing of the populist PSD will say: "Ah, this is popular". But I'd say this is populist. [[PSD protests.]] This is a bad sign. We sincerely hope that the moderate PSD will look after the radical and populist PSD. By the way, I ask: would those rules apply to us, ladies and gentlemen? I would like to know whether the PSD, in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency, will propose the same rules for us Members, i.e. income and heritage statements at « click distance », the registration of meetings with external entities and hospitality. In conclusion, I want to say that the PS is in favour of transparency, it is in favour of strengthening the system of incompatibilities of public and political office holders. We have proposed, through draft resolution, the establishment of a possible committee for transparency. It was us! [[PSD Members' laughs.]] We have tabled a draft resolution on that basis! And we're available for that, but we're not available to go after populism and what you can do the delights of the tabloids in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u95	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has registered Mrs Margarida Marques from the PS, but she is waiting to see if any more Members intend to use the floor, with the exception of the proposing party, so that we can respect the rule of alternance in interventions. [[Pause.]] With no further inscriptions, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Margarida Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents to us today a draft resolution recommending the strengthening of the financial supervisory mechanisms of the European Union and the completion of the banking union. To this end, it proposes the use of the green card mechanism and recommends action to the Government with the European institutions. After the course that has been taken — undoubtedly largely inadequate and weak — and of the legislative proposals and initiatives on these matters on the European agenda, some others adopted in debate in the institutional and/or political framework, this Green Card is a weak instrument. As regards the action of the Government, one thing is certain: from the beginning of its mandate the Portuguese Government has been engaged in the deepening of economic and monetary union ( EMU ) and therefore in the completion of the banking union in its various pillars, with concrete proposals from the European institutions and in systematic dialogue with the other Member States. Some have positions close to the Portuguese positions and others have presented serious reservations to some instruments, but I would just like to remind you that, more recently, the recognition of the importance of the completion of Economic and Monetary Union in the Declaration of Rome is largely the result of the enormous pressure of the Portuguese Prime Minister. Therefore, we are debating a weak and out of time recommendation. The banking union has experienced a decisive and important development in recent years, but it is still incomplete. The European financial markets are now more integrated and thus enjoy greater strength, but the establishment of the credit line which will function as a security of the Single Resolution Fund is urgently needed. The banking union will not be complete until the European deposit guarantee mechanism is established. in the same way, the relaunch of the Union of Capital Markets could be positive if it could determine lower dependence on companies on banking financing, as well as more European resources for the necessary capitalisation of Portuguese companies. It seems to us, however, unwise and hasty to make a commitment from now on to the integration of supervision at European level through direct supervision by the European Securities and Markets Authority ( ESMA). The role of ESMA cannot result in a weakening of Portuguese democratic authorities and institutions. We support the creation of a European monetary fund that can evolve from the European Stability Mechanism. But there is a debate on the conditions under which it should be materialised: financing, functions, competences, framework within the institutional democratic framework of the European Union and not outside the Community framework, without the capacity to monitor the European institutions, in particular the European Parliament. We already know what it is and we don't like it. We want a European monetary fund that serves, among other things, as a European unemployment subsidy mechanism, to be put into action in times of crisis to correct conjunctural and in addition to national mechanisms, and as a public investment fund, which can react to asymmetric shocks. The PSD seeks to renew the fund solely to turn to the financial system, but we believe that this fund should be part of a policy of economic development and cohesion. Finally, new common financial policy instruments must follow some degree of conditionality linked to the European Semester, prevent macroeconomic imbalances in the European Union, support the implementation of progressive structural reforms that promote employment and growth and support investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u97	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I refer to a number of comments which have been made. Mrs Mariana Mortágua complained that the European institutional system of banking union had not been complete. Mrs Margarida Marques said we made a lot of progress, but she forgot to say that the advances stopped in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u99	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u100	It was already in December 2015 that his Government dropped from the agenda of the European Council the creation of the deposit guarantee system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u101	In other words, the left-wing government, which wanted to beat Europe's foot, has let any advance stop happening. Responsibility is also yours and you are a factor of delay and not advance! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] The CFP has already come to do an exercise saying that the initiative and the public bank are a guarantee of perfection. Now, we also believe in the public bank and therefore we recovered, and well, and recapitalized the General Deposit Box. What they did in the last year and a half was hide the imperfections of the General Deposit Box! Even yesterday, the Supreme Court came to say that, with your boycott at the parliamentary committee of inquiry, nothing else is known because you want, in the good Soviet way, that when the State fails, no one knows. [[PSD applause.]] As for the Socialist Party, I ask Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira : crisis of intellectual identity? Oh, my God! Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, I have a collection of articles that you have written where you can read the opposite of what your government is doing. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira ( PS ). - You don't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u102	But where is your identity, clarity and identity certainty? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, like Mr. João Galamba, perhaps it would be worth reading a little better. The National Council of Financial Supervisors is not, Mr. João Galamba, a consultant of the Banco de Portugal, independent and, for us, a parity of the three financial supervisors, such as such functional segregation of the resolution authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u103	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u104	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, this is what happens in the overwhelming majority of European countries, where 19 in 28 countries have this solution. What really happens in the Socialist Party, however, is something else we learned yesterday: the socialist tick of wanting to control, through government and political power, the practice of lending is coming back. in the fucking vehicle for the bastard there they wanted to put the government finger and now in the supervision...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u105	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u106	... they want to put the government's finger again. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party here have an opportunity to confirm or deny your availability for commitments. If they agree with many of the diagnoses, they help to find a solution and do not continue to retreat and block the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u107	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next point...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u108	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u109	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u110	Mr. President, to defend the honour. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u111	To defend personal honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u112	Yeah, guys.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u113	The honourable Member will have to wait for the end of the agenda. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to enter point 3 of our agenda, which is the joint discussion of the projects of lein.os 525 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Defines the acts of veterinary physicians ( PS ) and 602 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Define which acts are the own acts of veterinary physicians ( PAN ). To present the PS diploma, Mrs. Júlia Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The medical-veterinary profession has been regulated since 1991, the year in which the Regulations of the Order of Veterinary Physicians have been approved. The activity of these professionals has been compared in the last 25 years with renewed and more dilated technical and scientific requirements and a much wider social responsibility. Such demands and renewed social accountability stem from developments in the provision of animal health care, but also, more recently, from a new legal perspective on animal rights, materialized in the recognition of their status. Such development has been accompanied, in some cases, by the emergence of new professions, in other cases, by the natural evolution of existing professions, whose activities are conducted with equal autonomy as required by veterinary doctors in the field of their interventions. The development that has taken place and the scientific progress achieved justify the establishment of the limits of the interventions carried out by the different professionals within the framework of full autonomy, which is why it is important to establish the boundaries of the interventions of veterinary doctors themselves. It is also justified to clarify this autonomy whenever a particular activity, not being exclusive to veterinary doctors, is to be carried out in accordance with its guidelines or supervision or even under its responsibility. In parallel with this strengthened requirement and accountability of veterinary doctors, it should be clarified that the acts exclusively for the handling of animals, in particular the techniques resulting from the domestication and creation of animals with zootechnical and economic objectives, or the detention and keeping of animals for other purposes, understood under this diploma, do not fall within the scope of the acts of the veterinary doctors themselves and therefore do not fall within the draft law which is now being presented. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social demand for safeguarding public health, animal health and animal welfare justifies a deepening of the legislative framework that identifies actors with their own responsibilities within the framework of safeguarding those principles. The use of veterinary medicinal products and the immediate repercussions resulting from incorrect use also suggest the identification of those responsible, dealing with a basic requirement for public health. It is not intended to limit access to the provision of medical and veterinary care, but rather to establish such exclusive use as a universal traceability of medicines used, in order to ensure animal health and well-being and, above all, public health. It is not expected to limit by law the boundaries of safeguarding animal welfare, which are the responsibility of all, however, to be clearly identified the professional responsibility of the agents to whom the establishment of a prophylaxis plan and clinical control aimed at animal welfare, in the case of veterinary doctors. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe, for the reasons presented, that the approval of the bill which seeks to regulate the medical veterinary act without restricting the intervention of any other professionals at different levels among animals, because the superior interests of society in the field of public health, health and animal welfare thus justify it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u115	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unlike the other careers in the field of health, there is no legal framework which taxes the acts of veterinary doctors, and there is no more at present than a number of minor diplomas in which some of these acts appear in a scattered manner. Such a situation does not faithfully represent the enormous importance that this profession represents, not neglecting the varied duties attributed to these professionals, such as many of the actions aimed at welfare and animal health, veterinary public hygiene or food inspection. We believe that a concrete and comprehensive definition of the acts of veterinary doctors accompanies the increasing social awareness of the effective importance of animals, the way they are treated and we relate to them, a path where these professionals have presented an increasingly remarkable work. Balancing the activities that veterinary doctors and other individuals with related valences can develop, in addition to the intuitive importance with regard to animal protection, has significant public health relevance, since both in urban and rural centers, veterinary physicians develop a fundamental role in the control of zoonoses, diseases that are transmitted from animals to humans. Evidence of the above-mentioned importance is that in 1946 the World Health Organization created Veterinary Public Health, establishing some of the tasks relating to these professionals, and since then the veterinary doctor demonstrated his capacity and competence in the areas of epidemiological, health and environmental surveillance, thus appearing 70 years later, essential the definition, in an autonomous legal diploma, of which the acts of the veterinary doctors themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u117	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the NAP for the presentation of the initiatives now under discussion. These diplomas may constitute progress for public health and animal health and welfare and agree on the recognition that veterinary doctors are, in fact, the best qualified professional group for the realization and accountability of acts listed in the bills. We believe, however, that until the final setting of the texts of these diplomas, the results of some additional reflection should be incorporated, in particular on the applicability of the diploma to industrial livestock and on the absolute impediment that some technicians with higher education continue to practice a number of acts that have been carried out a long time ago — and I would just like to remind biologists, for example, as regards kinetic species, or zootechnical engineers, as regards animal production. According to the proposal, in various cases, professionals with other graduates other than that of a veterinary doctor will be prevented from performing what their own veterinary doctors for years did not want or could not do. They did not want to execute because certain acts are regarded as economically poor compensators in relation to others that are more profitable or because they consider some acts too simple and routine and could not do so because, in fact, there were very few for the vastness of tasks. In fact, we remember that in 1991 the veterinarians were less than 1000 and today they are more than 6000. The number has changed but that, by itself, will not be the reason to change everything. Nor did they allow them because, in certain areas, such as aquaculture, the competences of veterinarians are compared with those of other professionals with higher education and very well prepared. These are, in our view, outstanding aspects in the field of specialty, as well as some failures and inaccuracies can be overcome. As an example, I refer only to two cases: on the one hand, in the definition of the object, the law should propose to define acts which, under the responsibility of veterinary doctors, may be practiced by individuals who do not possess the professional portfolio of veterinary doctor, a different definition from that proposed by the Socialist Party; on the other hand, a precise definition of what are invasive acts, acts that cause pain or affect the mental or physical integrity of the animal. In the Commission's hearings of the various entities with interest in this matter, other points which may and should be improved will certainly be highlighted. from the Left Block, in due course, we will present our contributions and our proposals. Overall, initiatives seem to us interesting contributions to safeguarding public health, health and animal welfare, and we would now add environmental and economic protection. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u119	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The principle of defining the own acts of the various professions seems to us conceptually a good principle, and it has advantages both for professionals and for the recipients or users of these professions, but therefore it must be enlightening and not generating conflicts. The definition of these acts itself is a very complex process—as Mrs Rodrigues has said, and very well, setting the limits and boundaries between the various professions, and I refer to three points in particular: on the one hand, the synergies between the various professions and functional complementaryities should be maximized; on the other hand, it should be well understood what tasks there should be collaboration and those where there should be cooperation and those where there should be supervision; and on the other hand, a particular emphasis should be placed on, as the name indicates, the competences of the medical veterinary act, which, in this particular case, should not be common to other professions. It is precisely in this latter respect that the CDS Parliamentary Group presents a number of reservations to this bill, and I give only a few examples. One of the medical-veterinary acts is that of the administration of medicines and I suggested, for example, that it be spoken in prescription medicine because, as in human health, the doctor prescribes the medicine and the user can take it, but in this case, it is not the animal that will administer it, someone can give you the medicine. Another example has to do with the collection of biological material, which should also not be exclusive to veterinarians. We have the example, in several livestock farms, of the milk harvest for the evaluation of diseases in dairy cows, or in milk sheep, or the harvest of urine, to be practiced by other professions, including by processors, or the control of the reproductive device, because artificial insemination is done today... I think there would not be any human capacity for veterinary doctors to insemination artificially in all livestock farms. This is only to give some examples of the inspection of food for human and animal consumption. Many of these tasks, or operations, are defined in a fairly broad way in the Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians, being transversal matters to a set of other professions. It is strange, therefore, that Mrs.Júlia Rodrigues has come to present this bill which, in essence, has been repudiating a proposal from the Order of Veterinary Physicians which was under discussion between 2013 and 2015 and which, precisely because it raises immense reservations, has not reached the right port and has not been included in the current Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians. My surprise is above all that I have replicated it without taking into account the main reservations at the time presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u121	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u122	I shall conclude, Mr President. In short, what we understand is that the veterinary medical act should not be directed solely or mainly directed to small animals, dogs and cats, as we find the concern of this project very much, and should safeguard the specificities of large animals or livestock production in agricultural holdings. In short, the definition of acts of veterinary medicine itself does, in the proposed forms, not. The very acts of veterinary medicine must be those that are exclusive of veterinary doctors and not those that are common to other professions and therefore I think there will be a lot of work to do here. It will be necessary to listen to the other professional orders and to clarify those that are the limits for veterinarians and other professions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u123	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Animal health matters are increasingly important, particularly in the context in which in recent years they have been transferred to bodies of the European Union competences and monitoring bodies in matters of health and food safety. Animal health issues are so relevant that they are repeatedly present in discussions in the Assembly of the Republic, either because the costs of animal health are being transferred to producers, with greater loss to small producers, or because the State is going to be irresponsible, also with the transfer of costs to producers and their representative entities. Animal welfare issues are also important as a strategy for enhancing national production. In all these areas there is a need for properly qualified technicians, and that is what is being discussed here today. The PS and the NAP propose the definition of the acts of the veterinary doctors themselves. The profession of the veterinary doctor does not have legislation that frames the veterinary act, which may make it inconsequential related legislation. This framework is important. But we also know that other professions develop their activities in the areas of health, well-being and livestock management, among others, and have placed some concerns and reservations to these legislative proposals. These concerns have reached the Assembly of the Republic, in particular by the Order of Engineers, drawing attention to potential sources of conflict between the professional exercise of veterinary doctors and zootechnical engineers. These concerns may reach other professions. The Parliamentary Group of the CFP accompanies the need for clear definition of the actions of these professions and will therefore vote in favour of the draft law in general, but it believes that the speciality process will necessarily have to promote an extended discussion on these issues, so that conflict situations in the professional exercise of different professions in the field of animal health are not enhanced. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u125	Mr António Ventura has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We agree that the actions of veterinary doctors are defined, but the question is how it is defined, what is the parliamentary methodology that is being used. From now on, this is an incomplete and unilateral diploma. And why? Because there was a part of society that wanted to contribute previously to this diploma and which was limited, it was not able to contribute. The first conclusion we have therefore to draw is that the PS did not allow a part of society to contribute to this diploma, which had neither the participation nor the fundamental debate which must have a diploma in this House. Secondly, the PS, knowing that there were gray areas, areas of conflict between the Order of Engineers and the Order of Veterinary Physicians, came in a form of guillotine, hastily, as if it were the owner of all of this, saying 'we will approve this and no one else participates here'! Now, putting Portuguese against Portuguese is no solution. [[PSD applause.]] You are putting Portuguese against Portuguese because you did not allow that participation. Finally, you broke what was established in the Committee on Agriculture, at the hearing of the Order of Engineers, i.e. that the project would not go up to plenary without the opinion of the Order of Engineers. They didn't respect that. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to legislate with the greatest possible consensus and not with false faith, and you are bringing this diploma to false faith and against a part of the Portuguese. I believe that, in the face of all this, the Engineers' Order gives a lesson of democracy to the PS. And, above all, the PS has done what is worse in democracy, which is to avoid the civic participation of some of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u127	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further requests for speech, we have concluded this item on our agenda. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, does he still consider your request for a word for honor to be timely?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u128	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u129	You have the floor, Mr President. It has 2 minutes for this effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u130	Mr. President, I'll be quick. There are parties and there are people, and the symbol of defense of honor has to do with people, with Members, who are people. I've been a university professor for 35 years. Only two years ago is that I'm a politician, so I'm 33 years old behind academic life. And in academic life there are three values that are very important: integrity, intellectual honesty and coherence. Mr Leitão Amaro called into question my integrity with my articles. I did not have time to collect my articles, but in the last five years, particularly during the four years of PSD / CDS government, my articles have been very clear in criticism of the fiscal policy and the recessive nature of that government. Mr Leitão Amaro referred to an article of mine which is not in line with this government. But there's more! If you want to know, this week you'll hear from me more things that I'm not in line with this government and about which I have different opinions, because I think, I'm an academic, I have an autonomous thought. Mr Leitão Amaro, if you want to substantiate your statements, do not distribute just one article of mine, do all the articles I wrote during the time your Government was in office. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u131	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor to explain under the same regulatory conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u132	Mr. President, thank you very much. I wanted to start by telling Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira that the values that I know he values, integrity and consistency, should not only be for the university professor. I must tell you that it must also be for the honourable Member, at least for the honourable Member and for the university professor. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, mentioned his comment: when asked whether the mix of measures of the State budget for 2013, which was appreciated by the Constitutional Court, was balanced he said: "Yes, it is balanced. And then he says: "The alternatives would be to reduce interest, social benefits, health expenses or increase taxes. There are no other alternatives». And he says more: « It is not possible to exclude an increase in taxes, it is not desirable to enter a dead end ». This is a comment! But that was four years ago. [[Protests by PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] I'm going to quote you something more recent. When asked about the stir on the IRS steps in 2018, he said: « It is almost impossible to move on the stairs ». And he also says: « Not only is it almost impossible as it is not desirable». In other words, there is no doubt that the honourable Member writes a number of opinions and then can even maintain the opinion, but it is time to vote and vote with your Government! There's an inconsistency there! It's not the PSD's opinion that you attack, it's yours! By the way, I'm answering one more point. He said: « The PSD cannot deliver something to the Transparency Committee and another here ». Mr President, all the diplomas come in here and it is therefore to this House that the PSD brings the political initiative. And on this subject of supervision, I am glad I brought it, because it brought the government down. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-19.u133	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing our work today. The agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will start at 10 a.m., is as follows. First, we will proceed to the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 587 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the transmission of an undertaking or establishment ( BE ), 600 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Clarify and strengthen the rights of workers in the event of a transfer of business or establishment ( CFP ), 603 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by amending the legal regime applicable to the transmission of business or establishment ( NAP ) and 606 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the transmission of business or establishment ( PS ). Secondly, we will proceed with a joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1047 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote investment in rail and road infrastructure with a view to improving the mobility of citizens, territorial cohesion, competitiveness of enterprises and environmental sustainability ( CDS-PP ) and 1051 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommendation to the Government on the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ( PETI 3 + ) ( PSD ). The general discussion of lein.o 582 / XIII projects ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Establish a maximum price system for bottle gas and channelled gas ( PCP ) and 604 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a maximum price system in the gas sector marketed in bottle or channelled, butane or propane(NAP) together with draft resolutions 947 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the creation of a maximum price system for gas bottles ( BE) and 1048 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the control of the bottled gas market in order to reduce the difference between the reference price and the average selling price to the public ( CDS-PP ). Fourthly, there is generally discussion of the projects of lein.os 536 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the obligation of information to the consumer in the bill of water on data relating to the quality of water for consumption and the referral of waste for management operations by amending Decree-Law No 114 / 2014 of 21 July ( The Greens) and 605 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Annex I to Decree-Law No 114 / 2014 of 21 July laying down the procedures necessary for the implementation of the detailed billing system provided for in Law No 12 / 2014 of 6 March 2014 which amended the second Decree-Law No 194 / 2009 of 20 August in respect of public water supply, sewage sanitation and urban waste management (PAN) together with draft resolution No 1055 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an effective way of disseminating water quality data to consumers ( CDS-PP ). Petition No 35 / XIII will also be appreciated ( 1. ( a ) — They request the reclassification of vehicles on tolls ( Abel José Barroso Guerreiro and others). The points relating to the Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic of 2016 and the motions for resolutions Nos 50 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 and 52 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Terrorism, which opened the signature in Riga, on 22 October 2015, do not have time for discussion. Finally, the vote will take place. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Good afternoon to all. [[It was 17 hours and 23 minutes.]]
