ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u1	Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I declare open the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLIII Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 10 hours.]] [[The Republican National Guard Band, placed in the Lost Steps, executed the national anthem.]] In representing the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u2	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court and other High Courts, Mr. Members of the Government, High Civil and Military Authorities, Distinguished and Invited Distinguished, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Maria de Lourdes Pintasilgo said that "transit society is not a closed society about itself. The time has already come to lengthen, entering into a time which is still unknown». I dare add that a society in transit is always a moving society, a society with critical thinking, aware of the civilizational moment in which it is. And our civilizational moment is that of today. This requires that we extend the April values in this period into a time which we understand to be necessarily interdependent, responsible, good governance, empathy, equality, happiness, sustainable prosperity. Society, in turn, expects from the government today the pursuit of fair, equal and humanist public and social policies, the strengthening of political plurality, the creation of bridges of dialogue and understanding, the promotion and legitimacy of civic participation, the defense of a free social and political conscience, informed and able to build a future in which all of us can have the right to share a planet that is reflected in that same hope. Will we be fulfilling that plan? Sometimes it's hard to believe. We live in troubled times, in which the global balance seems to be biased towards xenophobia, homophobia, misogyny, nationalism, racism and'species'. in Europe, in our Europe, radicalized movements are growing at large. A little around the world, we close borders, we build walls, we reinstall dictatorial regimes, we alienate, we explore and withdraw rights, we feed wars, we subjugate communities and populations in an unbridled way. A little around the world, and Portugal has not been an exception, we subject environmental values and the common good to the dictatorship of economic agents. We are convinced that the reaffirmation of the April values will enable us to contribute to the rebalancing of this balance. We are convinced that we need to withdraw the values of April from this purely discursive logic and from the transposition into our 21st century, assuming with pride that in this XLIII Anniversary there is still space to democratize. The basic structure of the current Western democracies is shaken and out of date: it does not follow the needs of citizens nor does it offer them more transparent, participatory and decentralised effective governance models. The volatility of our democratic systems is also linked to the participation, or lack of it, of the political and social day-to-day of Western democracies. The policy of absolute majority, privilege, installed elites and untouchable sectors must disappear. We're not deluded. in the words of Boaventura de Sousa Santos: «Democratization is a task that is far beyond the state and the political system. Democraticization is an endless process. Democratizing is demarketing life, decolonizing social relations, depatriating our society." Much of this work is in the hands of those and those who today sit in this Assembly of the Republic, in celebration of a democracy still, and always, for realisation. I am honored to be part of a political and civic movement that is being given the opportunity to contribute to that reality. I know that this feeling overflows the doors of this Chamber and that it is shared for ever more citizens and citizens who, in what they do and within their capacities of action, are endowed with an incredible and infinable transformer power. The NAP values this sense of mission and will do everything to empower it, in fulfilling a plan that is of all: that of living in happiness and harmony. [[Congratulations from BE, the PCP, PSP Members, PS Members and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u3	On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u4	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs. Members, Dear and Dear Guests, Mrs. Captains of April, My Ladies and Gentlemen : We are in a hurry to fulfill April! They spent 43 years on that day when hope and people were returned to the country and the power to build the future. The day on which, of raised red nails, an explosion of joy and vibrant greeting was given to the April Captains for the release of 48-year-old fascism ties. To be quick to comply with April is to be eager to guarantee rights and levels worthy and true of well-being and happiness for a whole people. Not just for some, but for an entire people. It was Salazar, the fascist dictator, who said that it was much more urgent to constitute elites than to teach the people to read, because national problems had to be solved, not by the people, but by the elites. It was this dictator who said that the newspaper was the intellectual food of the people and that, like all other foods, it had to be monitored, considering censorship more than legitimate and even an element of elucidation and a necessary correction. He classified deep violence and torture printed by PIDE to political prisoners as simple safanons to sinister creatures and was not able to say that in Portugal there was no room for freedom. Continued by Marcelo Caetano, this barbarity is added to a million young people launched into colonial war and thousands of young people deserting and emigration, to escape from the country that set them up. It was a people to whom poverty and exploitation were pronounced, while half a dozen capitalist families were enriched. in the words of Ary dos Santos, it was called this country « Portugal suicide». On April 25, 1974, the country celebrated. in the streets, filled with eager voices, it was shouted that «the united people will never be overcome» and it was sung that «the people are the most ordered». at that time, the advances were immense, but the problem was what then, as soon as this advance was interrupted and even, in several aspects, it was receding. For example, in the past legislature and with the previous government will anyone dare to say that the increase in working hours, the end of holidays, the fragility of public services, the fury of delivery of fundamental sectors to the private, the cuts in contribution pensions and social support, the cuts in wages or the brutal increase in taxes have been advanced? Don't! It was retreats that generated poverty and seriously threatened our levels of development. And they were given ideological choices, on a right that clearly favored the great economic and financial interests and not the well-being of the citizens. There are no inevitability in politics, but options, choices. Therefore, in this legislature, after the voters have attributed the majority of Members to the parties that had committed themselves to the change, the Greens Ecological Party has worked and has contributed so that they are, without hesitation, restored conditions and rights to the Portuguese, who had been removed from them. But we have also been working to improve development conditions at various levels. To give some examples: we called on the Government to resolve powerful interests, such as those of cells, to curb the brutal expansion of the area of eucalyptus; we proposed measures for the necessary decarbonization of the country and for the reduction of greenhouse gases, through the creation of incentives to use collective transport and the strengthening of railway mobility; we called for attention to the interior of the country and the necessary revitalization of sustainable productive activity; we advocated more means for the conservation of nature and biodiversity and for pollution control; we warned of such serious problems as the worrying intention of research of hydrocarbons on our coast, or for the increasingly obsolete nuclear power plant in Almaraz. What is important to keep in mind today is that one cannot lose the dimension of courage that has been revealed in all the women and men who fought to build April. In the process of achieving results, we still have much, much to conquer in terms of social and environmental rights. But this European Union we know has been a serious obstacle to this objective. It forms around elites, serves the interests of the powerful, distance from peoples, ignores their needs, demands incomprehensible goals. to the Portuguese Government, the Greens, what we demand is that it govern for the people, for the development of the country and not get stuck in the obsession of numbers, caught up in Brussels. This is a condition for the stability of our country. One last note to say that there were so many Portuguese who sought refuge in other countries to escape the colonial war, others to seek better living conditions. It is about 5 million people of Portuguese origin scattered around the rest of the world. We have more than the obligation to understand the imperative of disregarding fascist, racist, xenophobic ideas that raise borders of inhumanity, when they exalt the fear of refugees or hate of immigrants. Always, always with freedom, democracy, peace, justice, solidarity, equality, fraternity on the horizon, are many who bring, as José Fanha describes « the month of April / flying/ inside the chest». But it's not holding in the wings that helps a bird fly. The bird flies simply because they let him be a bird» — Mia Couto. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a hurry to do April! [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u5	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u6	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, Captains of April, Mr. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The April 1974 Revolution is the greatest act, the most important milestone in our country's contemporary history. Acts of liberation, explosion of joy, movement of conquest and construction, construction of peace, development, progress, building of rights after decades of oppression and repression, so from here we greet those who for them have sacrificed themselves and even died. We greet the April military who, immediately supported by the people, have taken the start of this glorious journey of emancipation and liberation from our country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 April 1974, it is unequivocally evident that, with the strength of the people, there are no barriers that are inexhaustible. Having conjugation of wills, we were able to overcome obstacles that seemed impossible to overcome. Fascism, with all its structures of power, oppression, instrumentalization of fear and exercise of physical violence against him, failed to stop the people and the Movement of the Armed Forces and fell round the floor. April 25 was not a spontaneous generation event, it was the culmination of a process, it was the culmination of years and years of struggle that involved many Democrats and that always had in front the Portuguese communists who, from the first hour, with courage and determination, faced the fascist beast. We therefore wish to pay tribute to the "superior heroes of the battle" and to greet all those who fought, resisted, were arrested, tortured and murdered by fascism. Their lives and their sacrifices were not in vain; on the contrary, they fought and went forth conquerors, despite all difficulties. [[PCP applause.]] Today, at the international level, we are living very difficult times. The growth of bellicism, the threat of war and the untiring growth of fascist movements must be deserved by all democrats particular attention, concern, but also action and struggle. Today, in the country and a little around the world, we are witnessing the attempt to put fascism in the same bag and those who most resisted it and who are also its main victims. Besides being an infamous lie, it is an insult to the thousands of communists who were the first to fight and die for freedom and democracy. But more than an insult, this exercise is objectively an attempt to whiten fascism. Today, as we were yesterday, we are called to resist and fight for freedom and for the deepening of democracy, with the conviction that there are no obstacles that are inexhaustible. Today, as yesterday, we are called to block the belligerent escalation and war, those that are already in progress and those who threaten to start at any time, with an unpredictable dimension. The non-interference and peaceful resolution of conflicts is the value of April which must defend and implement. On 25 April 1974 it is also clear, in an unequivocal way, that when people want to transform society. With April 25, we built a more just and supportive country, we dedicated rights and human rights to those rights. With April 25, we won freedom of expression and popular vote. But with April we also built peace, public school, the National Health Service, social security, guaranteed access to justice, built public services, advanced the right to housing and access to essential goods. Many of the rights won with April, which are part of the revolutionary process, have been threatened, destroyed and committed in the years that followed right policy. But it is unquestionable that April leaves a valuable lesson: it is possible to transform the dream into reality and to live in a more just country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I grew up with April 25, with their ideals and with their transformative impulse. I grew up to learn, as music says, that “there is only real freedom when people belong to what the people produce”. Injustice in the distribution of national wealth is, in parallel with the need to increase national production, one of the most serious structural problems facing our country. The concentration of wealth in half a dozen economic groups, by the injustice it entails, does not allow freedom to be fully realized. Similarly, freedom is injured if we continue to be subject to instruments of submission such as the euro and debt. It is therefore urgent to increase and better distribute the wealth produced in our country. The fight against precariousness, the increase in wages and the recovery of collective bargaining instruments, with the elimination of expiry rules and the recovery of the most favourable treatment principle, proposals which the CFP has scheduled for May, are, together with the renegotiation of debt and the end of submission to the euro and to the choices of the European Union, freedom. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for decades, the rights won with the April Revolution have been attacked. The black years of the CEP (Stability and Growth Plan) and the aggression pact were followed. During all these years, the worsening exploitation, impoverishment, the exit of the country of hundreds of thousands of Portuguese, the destruction of public services, the decharacterization of the democratic regime and the commitment of national sovereignty were presented as virtues, as inevitable to promote the resignation of a people and a country to have a future. at the same time, they were promoting the poverty of hundreds of thousands so that half a dozen would get richer and richer. The workers and the people gave the answer. The fight has been and is decisive. Once again, it proved to be worth fighting. The PSD/CDS government was defeated and, like others, who acted against the April values, was removed from power. in the new phase of national political life, in the current relationship of forces, despite the options of the PS and its government, it was possible to take steps, although insufficient, towards the recovery of rights and wages. These are advances that we value, but it's important to go further. It is not only possible for the CFP to build a more just and supportive country with the strength of the people. A country in which workers see the effort of their work recognized in their wages, a country in which they have worked their entire lives, with long-term contributions, have access to a decent reform and without penalties, a country in which workers see their rights recognized and in which public services have quality and are accessible to all. Inspired in April, in the time we live we have in mind the strength of the collective voice of the people that was expressed in the "Grandola village brunette, land of fraternity, in which the people are the most ordered". We bear in mind this strength at the popular commemorations of April 25 and on the great day of 1. May. in this time we bear in mind the strength of so many struggles, of so many limited situations, the strength of that anthem that the communists imprisoned courageously echoed in the cells and corridors of the left Caxias prison : « Each thread of will are two arms and each arm a lever». Today, under different conditions, this is the way to go further in defense, replacement and conquest of rights, to break the ties of the domain of great capital and external submission, to, with each yarn of our will, transform thousands of arms into levers and thus place the values of April in the future of Portugal. Long live April 25th! [[PCP, PS, Os Verdes and PAN applause.]] [[Viva!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u7	Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, representing the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u8	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Former Presidents of the Republic, other Civil and Military Authorities of the State present here, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Mr Núncio Apostolico, Ms.as and Mrs. Representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, Ms. and Mrs. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the 43 years of April 25 today we remember and pay tribute to all those who have contributed to the construction of democracy in our country, all the men and women who have fought before and after that day for freedom and against any form of totalitarianism. in which it is the first 25 April after the death of Mário Soares, the central figure of our democracy, it is elementary justice to refer here its name. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PS and PAN.]] We welcome the vision, the boldness and courage, and the overcoming of so many, also recalling those who on 25 November brought the country back to the true path of freedom and democracy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] If I am allowed a personal note, as a daughter of military and with painful memories of the colonial war, to celebrate April 25th and also November 25th, it is not to forget days and hours of inexhaustible joy. It is also to honor the memory of my father and his comrades of arms, some of them present here. Celebrating April 25 is an act of justice, recognition and gratitude for what we are today as a people and as a country and cannot be understood as a lesser thing, mere formalism or circumstance. To do this is to preserve memory, to respect history and to recognize that April 25 continues to build us in the present and projects us for the future. Remembering April 25 is keeping the flame that designed us for a reality that is now better recognized, the fruit of the commitment of many, but above all, of the soul of a people. It is to stir up the pride we have on the way, in the difficulties overcome, in the efforts that the Portuguese have made, the pride of, as a people, we will continue to be able. It is to reaffirm the pride, so often forgotten, of being Portuguese. in this long journey we recognize errors—and we do not forget the troubled process of decolonization—, we recognize deviations and divergences. The CDS has never been afraid or afraid to assert its values and principles and has never eaten resentment. It will always be easier to destroy, but much harder it will be to estimate, to unite and to build. It is on this side that we are and will be, as Adelino Amaro da Costa said in 1976, with full words of meaning and modernity : « The CDS will always be committed to participating in the dialogue necessary for the survival and consolidation of democracy ». And what brought us democracy? Undoubtedly, the affirmation of irreplaceable civil and political rights, with remarkable advances and developments for our collective, rights that we cannot fail to consolidate, in an ever-renewed process of the construction of democracy. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot forget any other rights. in this phase of democratic maturity, although with shadows of uncertainty, we wonder whether or not we are at the level that we would like to be. Making politics in a modern democracy is not to be content with the progress we have made in the area of freedom and equality. in the democracy that we want to consolidate, social rights should be the key to strengthening. We need solid social values, which must be understood as true human rights that are, in a healthy interdependence with the civil rights that we have proclaimed and built. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and our Constitution, the CDS is committed to asserting irreconcilable social rights, contemporary universal values. They are rights in which the condition of a person is the exclusive requirement for their ownership and act as integrating and legitimizing vectors of the common good and should therefore be encouraged and protected. It is in this line that we reaffirm the need to build a modern society, which has in the protection of life the foundation of human rights, a society that does not rule out the most vulnerable, before they take care of and expand their horizons. We defend dignity as an intrinsic and unnegotiable heritage value of the human being, so for us, and regardless of the circumstances, there are no lives worth living and others not. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We thus adopt a solidarity view of human dignity, overcoming another individualistic perspective that may be more isolated from civil rights. Protecting life and the most vulnerable will therefore be the best way to ensure the promotion of dignity and freedom that we are celebrating today. If we are committed to these fundamental and universal values, we want to continue to fight for access to the promised and often violated social status in the CDS. We want to continue to fight for good health care for all, we want to guarantee the right social protection for the elderly and the most vulnerable, their caregivers, we want to continue to promote birth and support families and children, improve investment in education and education and guarantee the generations to come a legacy that they and we can be proud of. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, celebrating on 25 April today will thus be assuming our responsibilities for the present, not irresponsibly assuming the future we want to link to those who come after us. What legacy are we building today? We do not want a void of promises, nor an endless list of mere intentions, nor so few misleading speeches. We want compromises that come true, and for that we all count on it. We will therefore honor the true values of April, so thinking of the future we want to leave to ours. We will continue, without fear of affirming our principles and values, embracing our differences and without fear of promoting consensus. We shall continue, without fear, and above all with hope. The hope that forces us to act and does not in any way exempt us from actively participating in the construction of our country. The hope of achieving new developmental patterns, of being happier and more resilient, as individuals and as a collective. Freedom, dignity, democracy. Mr President of the Republic, My Ladies and gentlemen : today, as always, poetry is freedom. With Sophia's poem by Mello Breyner we reaffirm that, more than ever, we want to be able to "dwell freely the substance of time". That is the most noble view we have to be in politics, which we also celebrate here today. It is therefore with gratitude, with pride, with responsibility and with hope, always for the positive, that we celebrate this 25 April. I hope that 43 years after the first one, new horizons and development patterns can be opened for the Portuguese, reaffirming our place in Europe and in the world. Long live democracy! Long live Portugal! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PSD and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u9	You have the floor, representing the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u10	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, Ladies and gentlemen : I was born in the National Health Service, I studied in public school, but I do not belong to an ungrateful generation. The Grândola also beats us in the chest to the parade and therefore, thank you Captains, thank you to whom you did not shut up, thank you to whom you resisted until the last blow of your body, obliged to whom you deserted not to be complicit, to whom you lived in the underground of fear. Thank you to all and to all the fighters of this invented love called freedom. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] All generations have their monsters. The generations who lived before me were born and grew up in the long winter of fascism and war, in a regime that marked them the fate of the cradle to death, without education, no health, nor the fate of the elites to whom the privileges we call rights were reserved. For the majority, work was another type of prison, illiteracy was the biggest handkerchief and the boss the worst cop. It wasn't just in Caxias that stood up. Vergílio Ferreira would write, on the borders of oppression: « May the border of your freedom not be the door of the house so that you may be free inside and outside it. Let your freedom begin with the bread that awaits you at the table and persist in the unknown that awaits you on the street. May the distance from you be filled by you and never by the police or a director of conscience. You're free. It is therefore your duty to set you free." Yes, I am proud to belong to a generation that fights in freedom. This had come so that we would not be sent to emigrate; it had come so that we would not be sacrificed on the altar of austerity; it had come so that we would not be deprived of the promise of solidarity in a Europe that wants us to submit. They tried to pack the transforming force of my generation into a story about the end of history. They gave us a nail to carry the chest once a year and told us that fighting for freedom was to celebrate this History. They set up the world's problems in a virtuous alliance between democracy and markets, but they repel each other. The wall also fell upon them, and History, far from being finished, now burst into our hands. In Aleppo, where they beheaded to hope; in the cemetery where the Mediterranean was transformed; in the walls of rusty wire around the fields that promised us that they would never exist again; in the less deaf growth of the extreme right and the war. Each generation has its monsters and ours appear every day on television, when they call "mother" a bomb made to kill someone's children because they have already forgotten Hiroshima's Rose;... [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] ... when the European Union determines that the deportation of refugees is only a matter of paying the right price to Turkey ; when reactionary and ultranationalist movements advance in Europe, feeding on the destruction of austerity imposed on the peoples. Twenty years ago, Eric Hobsbawm feared that xenophobia would become the great ideology of the masses of our time; that the rejection of the other, the denial of what humanity has in common was the scapegoat of the failures of society. Looking at Europe today, who can not recognize, who can not want to see that there has been a failed project? It failed because it subjected democracy to financial markets, it failed because it lost contact with the social and economic rights of the peoples, it failed because it spread poverty and unemployment, because it wanted to break the Constitution. He failed us because he delivered or privatized what was our sovereignty and, therefore, our freedom. Fear became the greatest ally of a conservative political project that dominates Europe. Too far from the aspirations of peoples to be able to mobilize their will, the centrist power seeks to occupy every space of our free decision with its bureaucrats, sanctions and taxes. Danger is the austerity that reborn when we lower the guard; danger is the troikas that look behind each Stability Program. [[Congratulations from BE.]] They serve to remind us that we have not yet won, that we still have those who find our owner, that we are not yet free. Waiting is defeat and confrontation with European taxes, which is the most difficult, is still what you are about to do. The propaganda that all protests are populist will ultimately serve the absolution of odious forces. The alternative to reactionary projects is not the moderation of situationism, with its committed defense of the system that saves banks but condemns generations to pay the debts and deficits of an old elite, too powerful and not rarely corrupt. The biggest mistake is to continue to sacrifice democracy to the profits of financial markets and deny rights and freedoms, in the name of security that never happens, only oppresses. The alternative is the boldness of those who do not resign, of those who question, of whom they are not afraid to exist. Fear and hope are not only not confused, as they are confronted. And there is no destiny for those who are in the middle of the road, to hinder the future, in the narrow choice of the lesser evil, a blurted image of democracy. That is why we cannot lower our guard in the defence of a complete, radical, economic, social and sovereign democracy which calls for the free decision of all from work to common goods. April, in order not to be empty, it has to have content, it has to be hopeful. in the Block of Left I beat us for this project of hope. Because we choose solidarity rather than exclusion, because we choose humanity instead of war, because we defend investing in what is ours instead of complying with the rules of absurd monetary, because we defend that there has to be a future as bright here as it was April. They'll say we dream. The best answer was given by a man who knew exactly what exists between war and peace and today we also honor: "Do we dream? We don't dream anything, we're really the only realists in this movie. "Miguel Portas." [[Congratulations from BE.]] April was the best promise that, by getting rid of the past, Portugal made to its future. The future is today and we did not put the boat to the sea to stay on the way. Let's fight for him. As Natália Correia said: « The road is the urgency, the boarding is now». Long live April 25th! [[Congratulations from the BE, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u11	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Alberto Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u12	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. President of the Supreme Administrative Court, Mr. President of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Former Presidents of the Republic, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we celebrate the day of freedom and democracy, the most important date of the contemporary history of Portugal. on 25 April 1974, I recall the image of a young army officer in front of a tank, involved by the crowd, walking from Chiado, all the streets of a country. The emotion of an announced surrender was on the face, at risk, in indecisions, certainly in fear, but in the immense courage of this military. Salgueiro Maia was then the messenger of freedom and, at that moment, the face and hope of a people. The Portuguese Army of the Captains of April, which he symbolized, affirmed its revolutionary legitimacy when the people welcomed him on the streets in the act of surrender of the dictatorship. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Our imperishable gratitude to the heroic Captains of April, some of them present here, who, with the risk of their own life, founded our future and our democracy. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] But the Revolution of 25 April 1974 was also the place and time of the end of the colonial war and a colonial empire, and the beginning of freedom for the peoples of the future states of Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea, Mozambique, Sao Tome and Principe and, in another dramatic curve of history, East Timor. On 25 April, it is at the same time the result of the convergence of the struggle of the resistance of the Portuguese people and the liberating struggles of the colonized peoples, following a tragic and inhuman historical error of the dictatorship that extended the suffering of an unjust war, responsible for the destruction, mutilation and death of so many and so many men, and ended up precipitating the return of thousands of Portuguese to the country, under empty conditions, of sacrifice and hopelessness. And because there is no future without memory, we must remember that the free and democratic country, the sovereign Republic that we are today, was built by the slow, persistent, daily, difficult struggle with chains, exiles, exiles, tortures and insubmissions. The fascist dictatorship sat in a political police who censored, watched and persecuted for fear, who murdered hundreds of Portuguese, hounded and tortured thousands of men and women for years. The dictatorship had places of suffering: Tarrafal, Peniche, Caxias, the war in Namkoongo, the crimes of Wiriamu. It was a long journey, days and decades, until April 25, the day the Portuguese people dreamed and belonged to him. And right now, in this place of freedom which is the Assembly of the Republic, I fulfil the historic duty of honoring the memory of whom this year left us and of freedom made its flag, either in the resistance to dictatorship, or in the foundation of the democratic regime of 25 April. A man who crossed his life with the destiny of the homeland : Mário Soares. Our gratitude and honor. [[PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP applause.]] in recalling 25 April we have to place as the time and place of the foundation of the democratic state, in which Portugal assumes itself as sovereign Republic, based on the dignity of the human person and aims to achieve a free, just and solidarity society. We then started a historic break with a socially and economically underdeveloped country, telling us - in the guarantee of political, social, cultural and environmental rights, in access to health care, education, social protection and culture, as anchorages of the indissociable realization of freedom and equality of all citizens. April is a fantastic day and place where the hope and dream of everything is possible. And, from this culture on the move, we are responsible for today's challenges: the demand for genuine sustainable development, based on innovation, knowledge, qualification, environmental balance, cohesion and territorial equity, combating poverty and unemployment, excluding, in particular, immigrants — the precariousness of work, more equal opportunities for women and men, combating inequalities, valuing the area of international cooperation and the place of Portuguese culture and language. Today's challenge is still to deepen the quality of democracy and the imperative strengthening of the credibility and transparency of the state and administration, security and justice systems, in short, ensuring the conditions for the exercise of demanding citizenship and a new ethic of responsibility. And taking our place in the European Union, of course, in full right and in equality. in today's challenges, in a phase of European crisis, austerity policies, of close budgetary discipline, caused, among us, recession and social degradation and the consequent sacrifices that hit the poorest and most excluded and generated an insidious situation of uncertainty, hopelessness and shocking social inequalities. However, the exit of the economic, social and ecological crisis requires a more democratic, transparent European Union, subordinated economic power to political power, and opposing the opaque domain of financial speculation over States and institutions, which leads to an unrelenting fight against corruption and the 'underground' economy, and that requires a turning point capable of sustaining the decline in the European project that the abandonment of solidarity meant. Social cohesion must return to the centre of European policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The European Union cannot continue to transform a European solidarity project between States, peoples and citizens on the contrary, transferring the imperatives of markets and of large corporations and financial groups to national budgets, without adequate democratic legitimacy. We are aware that 'European construction is capital not only to maintain peace on the continent, but also to the economic progress of the Member States, and also to their political power in the world'. But the fragility of the European project, with enormous social differences between peoples and regions, has opened up space for a rise in nationalist and sovereignist statements and the growing threats and actions of terrorism, extremism and populism. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, April 25 is one of the rare days of our lives that rhymes freely, a place of all dreams, of boldness, of utopia made reality that was party, hope and the future. In order for April not to be a ritualist ephemeralist it is our duty to relate to the future in a strategic way, refusing conformity at this time threatening uncertainties, risks to peace, violence, terrorism, attacks on fundamental rights. Therefore, our path in Portugal and at planetary level can only be to resume the compass of the great universal values of peace, of equal freedom, of absolute respect for human dignity, of the sense of fraternity, of the fight without hindrance to the social dysfunctions of poverty, exclusion and inequality, by the ethical inspiration of politics, by the perception that ecological balance is a vital imperative for future generations and for collective survival itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary to rethink the future as a scenario of freedom, in which the legend of April 25 is an inspiring matrix of freedom that is projected in our present with its character of future and forever. Long live April 25th! Long live Portugal! [[PPS, standing, BE, PCP and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u13	In the representation of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u14	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Former President of the Republic, Mrs. and Mr. Former President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice and of the other Tribunals present here, Mrs. Members of the Government, His Eminence the Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Mr. Ombudsman, Mrs. Attorney General of the Republic, Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon and the rest of the Autarcas present here, military and civil individuals, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Members, Ladies and gentlemen: Freedom is achieved only and democracy is achieved completely only when each person can choose, according to his or her talent and vocation, without barriers and equal opportunities, his or her project and way of life. The dream of democracy and prosperity takes place in a free and just society in which people are recognized for their talent, merit and contribution. The dream of a society in which everyone can choose to live without fear and need is an ideal for which he lives and for which he dies, is a constant in life. A society that recognizes and values both talent and merit, both innovation and creativity, has to make a firm commitment to education, has to invest in inclusive education, which guarantees children and young people opportunities that do not depend on the condition of their birth. It must invest in a teaching with requirement and quality and rigorously in the evaluation of the school, teachers and students, a teaching that guarantees each child the possibility of leaving, leaving, escaping the vicious circle for which its basic context pushes it. Destroying this teaching system that guarantees effective opportunities is putting a nation at risk, it is threatening the critical mass of the future, it is condemning society to stagnation and poverty, it is leading people to give up dreaming and fighting; it is destroying talent and ambition; it is the right way to deepen inequalities. We, Portuguese, massively do not want that kind of society. We want the other: an inclusive society, which guarantees all conditions so that each one is responsible for building his own life, having conditions and ability to achieve what he desires, according to his talents, according to his vocation and the merit of his choices. We do not want a society that is reflected in equal, facilitation or exclusional conceptions. It is this free, fair and inclusive society which in Portugal must continue to build on the will of the Portuguese. in this process we must introduce high levels of scrutiny and transparency, society must free itself from unjustified privileges, corruption, compassion and opacity. It must be rid of political and economic institutions that would enhance the illegitimate enrichment at the expense of the rest of society; it must be freed from any temptation to abuse power in politics and the economy; it must be firm in combating impunity. It is a society in which the origin of wealth must be justified and thus the illicit criminalized enrichment. The hegemonic value of inclusive progress and human, economic and social development is surpassed by any safeguard of opacity, especially in the presence of a manifest disproportion between heritage and the way of life before the incomes taken from each other. in a limited capital society we must proclaim zero tolerance to the diversion of the resources necessary to promote inclusive development, effective opportunities for all. The inclusive society, in permanent construction, is a society in which political positions and economic actors must be subject to high levels of scrutiny and transparency. They shall register publicly their interests, purposes and affiliations. These are decisive measures to raise the degree of trust that people place in others and, consequently, to increase the extent to which they are able to cooperate. Trust is, above all, a consequence of the prestige of political and economic institutions and they are the guarantor of the rule of law, the promotion of equality of conditions and a fair legal system. Democracy, freedom and equal opportunities will not be permanent rights if politics is not at the service of people — of all people — if political and economic institutions do not reflect choices that lead to inclusive prosperity. Looking at the world, we realize that different political choices lead to different consequences. Sustainable and inclusive progress and economic growth are not mere coincidences; they are results determined by choices we make. These choices are, first of all, political and it is the political process in its primary composition that determines the nature and type of our institutions and how they work; if they are organized around a free and competitive market for all, in conditions of equal opportunities; if they create incentives for private initiative and businesses; if they remove obstacles to market entry, bureaucracy, excessive costs in obtaining licenses and targets, the difficulties in obtaining loans and financing; if they guarantee conditions of access that enhance talent and merit, innovation and creativity; in short, if they remove barriers that deepen the inequalities recorded in the home. But if, on the contrary, our choices are to determine that society is organized in a framework characterized by the insecurity of ownership and free economic initiative, the opacity and absence of scrutiny, the unpredictability and interests of social groups or elites, then it wastes talent, repudiates merit, demoralizes people and alienates them the freedom to choose and opportunities to progress. There is a clear border between the two political options I have mentioned, and this border separates inconclusive political thoughts. A border as sharp as Parallel 38 that divides the Koreas. A frontier which, on the one hand, places the primacy of the person and his life plan and, on the other, a totalitarian state generating poverty and injustice. I remember Francisco Sá Carneiro, quoting him: « Marxist socialism, collectivist and statisticizing, however smoother his discourse, does not suit the progress of peoples or the free development of men, even because it is archaic. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u15	But if the two political thoughts I have faced here are really inconclusive, it is important to underline the moral relevance of another distinctive trait between them, especially on this symbolic date that we celebrate. And this distinctive trait is the one that separates tolerance, which proposes dialogue, openness and consensus, of intolerance, that presents itself dogmatic, that does not discuss ideas, rather imposes them, and that does not accept difference or free choice, preferring to choose for us, in the name of a much greater assumption. That is basically what separates the true democracy from the reducing totalitarian utopias. And I end with a reference, which is today undisturbed, with deep affection and deep admiration, to the one who, from exile, denounced to the world the Amordaçado Portugal and who indicated and outlined the direction, first of the choice, and after the consolidation, of freedom, democracy and decentralization, of the European option, of the solidarity and fraternal relationship with our immaterial homeland that is Portuguese and the huge community that shares it. The one who was one of the most striking faces of the struggle so that, in the continuation of April, Portugal remained on the free, democratic and inclusive side of a world divided by a wall. For all this, thank you Mário Soares, and thank you to all those who have fought and persist in fighting for the ideals of freedom and inclusion. Thank you! Long live freedom! Long live inclusion! Long live Portugal! [[Greetings from the PSD, standing members, PS and some of the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u16	It is now the time of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court, of the Constitutional Court and of the other Superior Courts, Former President of the Republic, General Ramalho Eanes, Former Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic, João Bosco Mota Amaral and Assumption Esteves, Mr. Ministers, Attorney-General of the Republic, Representative of the Republic for the Autonomous Region of the Azores, Representative of the Republic for the Autonomous Region of Madeira, Ms and Mrs. Members, Mr. Nuncio Apostolic, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps, Members of the Diplomatic Corps, Civil and Military Authorities, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Mr. Former Councillors of the Revolution, Mrs. Former Constituents, Mr. President and members of the Association Directorate April 25, Illustres Invited and Invited, Excellencies, My Ladies and Gentlemen : 43 years ago a promise of freedom was born in Portugal. Forty-three years later we can proudly say that from the promise of freedom we have made a European democracy open to the world. Forty-three years later, we will honor the memory, reaffirm democracy and face the challenges ahead. We honor the memory, beginning with the principle of everything: by our Armed Forces, the pillar of identity and national sovereignty. It was from its ranks that the MFA (Army Movement) emerged and the courageous gestures that gave birth to Portuguese democracy. throughout these 43 years of democracy our Armed Forces have been able to prestigious the state and serve the Portuguese and are therefore still the institution in which the Portuguese most trust. Thank you, Portuguese Armed Forces, thank you, Captains of April! [[PSD, PS, BE and Os Verdes applause.]] And thank you very much for all the women and men who have fought for democracy. It was 25 years ago that he left us a great Portuguese, which helped, like few, to change our fairy, on April 25, 1974 : Captain Salgueiro Maia, a true hero of democracy! [[PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes applause.]] That early day of freedom began in the sound of Grandola Vila Morena. Let us also remember, now that 30 years have passed since his death, the finder of freedom, José Afonso, so admired and sung by the young people of the past and today, the Zeca, for friends and admirers—and so many are here today, in Parliament, and also in the avenues, streets and squares of this country, to celebrate the day of freedom. [[PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this year, in which we make 43 years of democracy, began with the disappearance of our dear Mário Soares. Mário Soares knew how to unite the country, starting with his own identity: he was supposedly secular, Republican and socialist. But it has always made its flag tolerance in the fight for democracy, decolonization and Europe. It has brought about what is best in the history of Portugal and in the energy of the Portuguese. In a sense, Portugal today is part of the tradition of freedom initiated 200 years ago, with the first liberal revolts. So, and for this purpose of celebrating today's freedom, of reaffirming our values today, we will celebrate, from the Assembly of the Republic, the bicentennial of Portuguese constitutionalism. These celebrations, chaired by Dr. Guilherme d’ Oliveira Martins, will be an opportunity for scientific and cultural production, but also for the pedagogical dissemination of constitutional values, rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. We are, with pride, the European country that has long abolished the death penalty. And we are also, in the Assembly of the Republic, very committed to this evocation. The provision of the building of Casa Amarela, affection to the Assembly of the Republic, calls us to the opportunity to create there an interpretative centre on Parliament, with auditorium, interactive spaces and bookstores. It's a dream for us to realize. It will be the main door to the House of Democracy. It is an idea that we are launching today and that, I am sure, you have every opportunity to mobilize the energies of Members, officials and the entire Parliamentary family for an extended period of time. The triumph of memory over forgetfulness, as the great Manuel Alegre always insists, is a decisive aspect of the victory of democracy. [[Congratulations from the PS, PSD Members and CDS-PP Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we honor the memory, committed to the present and confident in the future. We live a different political time, a new political time, a time when Parliament has gained a new centrality. There are no dispensable Members or parties excluded from government solutions ; all count to serve Portugal, either in opposition or in support of the Government. Data from the Eurobarometer have recently been published, a semi-annual survey that is implemented in all countries of the European Union. This survey shows us a reversal of the growing distrust that existed in the political institutions of democracy. Today there is, for example, more confidence of the Portuguese in the Assembly of the Republic. I am convinced that this new political time has helped this re-valoration of Parliament as a forum for democratic negotiation and representation of the interests of the Portuguese people. I am also sure that Mr President of the Republic has also played a decisive role in this recovery of confidence in the institutions of democracy, through his judiciary of proximity, loyal, lucid and affectionate, and, above all, through his continued respect for the Constitution. [[PSD and PS applause.]] But we keep listening to people. Feelings of distance from power and the climate of mistrust still reveal worrying levels. And the ill-intended attacks on Parliament and its members continue to be seen and heard. On 25 April, he represented the end of the dictatorship and the principle of universal voting in Portugal. We cannot accept that the universal right to vote becomes a formality, in which, disproportionately, the younger and the poorest are less interested in political life and participate less in electoral acts. We must think seriously about new solutions, which help to increase the political and electoral influence of the new generations and which contribute to a renewal of political representation. As holders of political office, we have a duty to listen and reflect, but also to give the example and account to the Portuguese. We all know, me and all of us, to set an example and be up to the mandate of the Portuguese. Let us all know, I and all of us, how to distinguish what the legitimate and desirable democratic divisions are from what are the responsibilities that we have before the rules and the functioning of the institutions of democracy. And speaking in accountability, it is important to make known the first proposals of the Working Group for the Digital Parliament, which I launched just one year ago. in one year, and within the framework of the activities of the Working Group for the Digital Parliament, it was possible to provide for the dematerialization of the legislative process, particularly in the circuit between the Government, the Assembly of the Republic, the Presidency of the Republic and the Constitutional Court ; to prepare the renewal of the website of the Assembly of the Republic ; to create mechanisms that allow greater interaction with citizens, as a platform for submission of petitions ; to simplify the requirements for the presentation of legislative initiatives of citizens or referendums; to create instruments of direct democracy, such as the exchange of questions and demands. I would like to congratulate Mr. Vice-President Jorge Lacão, who is not here because he is in my representation in Slovakia for the coordination work he has developed. And I would like to welcome the spirit of democratic commitment which has guided the work of all the parliamentary groups in this Working Group which I launched a year ago. However, through Mr Fernando Negrão, I can also testify that the work of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, where there have already been valuable hearings, has been important contributions to improving the monitoring mechanisms, which have already been discussed here today, creating clear rules, requirements and solutions that correspond to an increasingly qualified democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us also look at the strategic challenges of Portugal. The European Union and transatlantic relations are obviously strategic matters for us. It is precisely the future of the European Union and the transatlantic relations that are at stake in this historic time in which we live. Portugal has done its work in Europe. However, we know that fulfilling our obligations is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the success of national and European objectives. For example, we see the threat of extreme right, which remains visible in France. It is not enough to talk about populism in this regard. I think it is a concept that normalizes what is not normal in democracy: authoritarian drifts, attacks on press freedom, racism, economic and social closure, fear of difference and pluralism. This is no new populism. This is the extreme-right authoritarian, nationalist and xenophobic! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] Sometimes we do not give due value to what we have and forget the size of what we have achieved. There are those who speak of democratic fatigue and European disenchantment, but it was democracy and the European project that guaranteed the development and the most lasting period of peace on our old continent. Let us remember the wise words of a great Europeanist, François Mitterrand : « nationalism is war». We must improve monetary policy, we must find mechanisms in which debt does not hinder growth; we must coordinate economic governance; we must harmonise taxation; we must combat terrorism and guarantee our security and defence; we must better integrate immigrants and refugees; we must strengthen cohesion and employment policies; we must do all that, because we know that we cannot ignore the signs of dissatisfaction and because we know that there is a peace and development project in Europe that we cannot dispense. We must continue the path to equality of rights and opportunities between women and men, the path of respect for differences, the path of consideration for the dignity of the older and the younger. There are, however, signs of hope. at the same time as those who abandon their principles, while those who give opportunistically to the extreme, emerge new forces, with social, environmental and European convictions. Let us hope that the defeat of the extreme right is confirmed and that it represents the return of the European Founding Spirit and the updated strengthening of its social model, to which Tony Judt called the « banality of good ». Now, it's still time to put together the sleeves and revitalize that banality we thought we had acquired. We are facing the greatest challenge to Europe's stability since the end of the cold war. of the United States of America continues to provide us with worrying and contradictory signs. At the same time as we do our work, we must be vigilant in our European political families and international forums, in defence of democracy and international law, in a better Europe and more regulated globalisation. We respect international treaties and our commitments. We don't give but we don't get lessons from anyone either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are one of the rare European countries without threats of extreme right. Although with natural divergences as to the way ahead, we have been an example of a compromise between international agreements and constitutional duties and the search for reconciliation between social progress, economic growth and financial stability by all of us. If there is no Republic without republicans, there is no democracy without Democrats committed. Long live democracy! April 25th, always! Long live Portugal! [[The PS, standing, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, some PSD Members and some CDS-PP Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u17	Mr President of the Republic will now send a message to Parliament. You have the floor, Mr President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u18	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Presidents of the Superior Courts, Mr. Former President of the Republic, Mr. Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic and Prime Ministers, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Mrs. Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. Captains of April, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honours, Ladies and gentlemen : It is today exactly 40 years ago that, for the first time, here, in this House of Democracy, we have begun what is already a civic tradition — the celebration of 25 April, by the voice of the elected throughout the Portuguese people. And the doubt that, from time to time, I heard raising, to so many of my young students was this: would it still make sense a ceremony, apparently of mere routine, in a closed clause, divided between reiterating the due gratitude to the fearless military of 1974 and to all those who had preceded them, in the struggle for freedom and democracy, and repeating the arguments of the political confrontation of every moment, in some cases marked by warnings or even almost final presidential? Would it not be preferable to live the date outside this Chamber, along with more Portuguese and Portuguese, in a gesture of openness of politics to concrete problems from day to day of the common citizen, innovating in ideas and overcoming the feeling of being seeing the same, even though people and circumstances were different? Moreover, living in Europe and the world times dominated by the appeals of digital, in which the most serious messages flow the hallucinating rhythm, without issuers and receivers being aware that they are hostage to a precipitation, a forgetfulness, a lower weighting of content; times when it seems tempting to question institutions and rites and simplify statements, in honour of the increasing acceleration of facts and anxious expectations of social groups. For it is precisely because these times are often the substitution of the substance by form, study and qualification by suddenness and superficiality, of labor careers by occasion files, of the debate of ideas by basic proclamations, saying what is thought to be appreciable to the listener and not what should be said; it is for all this, and the contingency of this ethical and doctrinal impoverishment opens the way to selfish and exclusive radicalisms, racism and xenophobia, messians who only like to use what is appropriate for them, which makes sense to keep this tradition alive. Today, more than ever. To show that we do not forget our history and that there are dates, such as that of April 25—well there are the fearless and courageous Captains of April— who have not, and will never, be indifferent to our collective destiny. To evoke those who have already left us, as Mário Soares — still three months ago — but who remain very alive in our memory; to confirm that we prefer democracy — despite imperfect, unjust or incomplete — to the most seductive of dictatorial mirage. To emphasize that democracy has a House, in which the most varied views of life and society are intertwined, and that not even the harsh tone of these discussions can serve as a pretext to question the richness of democratic diversity. To reinforce that it is because there is so much diversity and so strong political struggles between us that our system of parties is of the most stable in Europe, leaving no space for known anti-systemic risks in other places. To remember that, if it is true that democracy is far from ending in this House, or in all organs of sovereignty, the Assembly of the Republic is a first symbol of Portuguese democracy. Prestigiously, it gives strength to our democracy. the permanent example of substantial discussion, of personal elevation, of attention to Portuguese, of medium- and long-term vision, protects us all, against the discrediting of politics, the temptation of demagogy, the revival of messianism, offering improbable pasts or illusory futures. This is therefore Mr President, Mrs and Mr. Members, why do I understand that in this time of so-called anti-institutional populisms, anti-systemic tropics, it is essential to make it clear that we are proud of our historic landmarks. We want to live in democracy, we know that it must be freer and fairer, but we also know that valuing the Assembly of the Republic, like all the sovereign bodies, and other constitutional reference institutions, starting with the Armed Forces, is an irreplaceable condition for the Portuguese to never give up what they have been building for more than 40 years. Yes, because we cannot forget that, if there are heroes of our democracy, besides those who prepared it and who, on 25 April, opened up paths for the future, these heroes are the Portuguese. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and Left Block Member Martins applause.]] They converted it from collective project and constitution written into life, building it at every moment. The Portuguese build democracy by voting, by their freedom of opinion and criticism, by the parties, movements, political associations to which they adhere or in which they engage. Or then making a more lonely journey, outside these representative structures, without taking any interest in the public cause, thus giving expression to political and personal rights. The Portuguese build democracy in schools, workplaces, trade unions and employers' associations, in local communities, in volunteering, in Mercy, in the IPSS (Special Institutions of Social Solidarity), in cultural and civic aggressions, in the churches to which they belong, thus never allowing or evading economic, social and cultural rights intolerably. The Portuguese build democracy when emigrants never forget their lands and contribute to them continuously, or when they receive immigrants and refugees from all over the world, remembering that their odyssey is the same as they have known since the 15th and 16th centuries. And therefore bet on opening other latitudes and longitudes. The Portuguese build democracy when, at the end of years of sacrifice, they feel it was worth everything they did to clean up public finances or make it possible to grow and create jobs in a lasting way and thus create conditions to reduce the debt they have on their shoulders, revealing exemplary resistance and constancy. In short, to Portuguese we must be effectively representative and kindly participatory, to be past but also present and future, to mean more than a dream for some, first a regime at the service of a national design. Because three realities are unforgettable. The first is that of the Portuguese, all of them, the first merit of the victories we have been having in recent years, in our finances, in our economy, in our society. The second is that of the Portuguese, all of them, the decisive role of, above all, creating a better future. The third is that the Portuguese, by sedimenting democracy, did it, and do it, thinking of the homeland, as patriots. Patriots, I say good. And let us not be afraid of the words and what they enclose, fiercely proud patriots of your nation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Because there are two very different ways to love the Nation. One, which is unfortunately fattening in other societies, is to say nationalist against the world, against those who are not ours, rejecting, excluding, living in permanent fear, before everything and all. Another, ours, which was at the base of our expansion, through oceans and continents, with all the limitations we know and assume, and of our communities scattered around the world, is to love the open-hearted nation of universal soul, not denying our identity roots, but knowing that they were made from before independence, a summary, among others, of Greek, Roman cultural traits, fenices, Lusitanians, Germanics, Celts, Moors, Jews, and, later, African, Asian and American traits. A patriotic nationalism and universal vocation, not a selfish nationalism, clinging to a pretense past, recreated, because not real, and ins no longer capable of facing the future. In fact, the only thing we have been able to do to defend ourselves against terrorism, insecurity and uncertainty, because, when we cultivate openness and inclusion, it makes it more difficult what our daily bread is today in other societies: to be the persecuted, the unjust, the rejected from within, the airs of the greatest dangers and the most insidious threats. It is this uncomplexly patriotic vision that gives ultimate meaning to our democracy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is up to the Portuguese, and to their unbreakable patriotism, in the first place, the fundamental struggle for our democracy and, more than that, for values focused on respect for the dignity of the human person, inscribed in our Constitution. And they haven't missed the call in this fight. As the public institutions and civil society have not missed, which have suffered many of the deprivations of the most painful years. Portuguese, social protection network on the ground and references to peace, security and solidarity, have enabled them to face crises without temptations or anti-democratic or less democratic impulses. But it is not enough: it is important that all structures of political power, from the top of the state to the public administration and, of course, to the courts, they understand that they must be much more transparent, swift and effective in responding to the challenges and appeals of this time, reversing themselves, reforming themselves, adjusting themselves. The so-called populisms feed on shortcomings, slowness, injustice, incompetence, irresponsibility of political power or their confusion, or sympathy, with economic and social power. Preventing or collecting them requires determination and permanent proximity, anticipation and satisfaction of legitimate Community needs. There is, in this context, a bastion of our democracy that deserves today in the evocation of 25 April, a very special word: local power. The thousands and thousands of women and men who have passed or are in the spirit of mission in the municipalities and in the parish of Portugal, autarchs and workers have been, and are one of the most lively differences in our democracy in relation to the Liberal monarchy and the First Republic. Not the only one, but the most relevant. Because, with universal suffrage, they have extended, and widen, participation in political power, far beyond a limited number of citizens; because they have lived and lived, sun to sun, close to people. They know their names, they know their complaints, they don't govern roles, they deal with specific lives: water, sewage, garbage, schools, roads, social centers, markets, green spaces, commerce, agriculture, environment, culture, industrial parks. Everything that involves the life of more than 10 million has to do with them and with them. Of course, it does not go to the edge of regional and national governments, but they are further away, even when everything is done to get closer. I have already said, and I repeat: the local power has been and is a unique'safety fuse' of our democracy. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and Greens Member of Poland applauded.]] Local power is not free of problems and defects, like all human work, but has the right to be, as a whole, once celebrated on 25 April. And, in the months of the implementation of the electoral act that begins, we all hope that the new authentic legislature will bring with it both in the areas of meeting classical or basic needs, both in economic, environmental, social and cultural development—and therefore human—both in the new ways of popular participation, even more daring steps, promoting progress, combating poverty and inequality, and promoting a free, plural and critical climate, which is characteristic of strong and prospective democracies. I hope, too, that the dual title, as President of the Republic and as former author, for 19 years, in the richest one, in his neighbour, and then perhaps the poorest national municipality. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal is not a perfect country. We need to improve, and much, what we want to offer our young people in the future, as well as our elders, who have already given us so much. The two and a half years that are missing for the term of the parliamentary legislature will have to be of greater wealth creation and better distribution. Government, its supporters and oppositions, who legitimately aspire to re-governance, will, of course, be attentive to this imperative, in the enriching multiplicity of their options. As have been essential to each other, in the last year and a half, to ensure the virtuous compatibility between the indispensable stability and the healthy political and parliamentary confrontation. But if Portugal has to do more and better, in order to be fair, we must admit that we are a country in peace, with considerable security, without racism and xenophobia, accepting religious and cultural differences as few, with a network of devoted social institutions, an untiring local power and a flexible political system, and, to this extent, even if there are no reforms, more sustainable than many of our European partners. So we have resisted the new populist wave that goes through this world outside. With almost nine centuries of history, we do not exchange the right for uncertainty. We do not sacrifice a democracy, though imperfect, seduced by serene corners of laughing tomorrows, in which Paradise will be born from chaos. And also, thanks to April 25, we have within us sufficiently opposed ways and therefore alternative ways, although all of them believe in constitutional democracy, to feel free from unreturned adventures. In short, we are very proud in our history, in our open patriotism to the universe, in our ability to reinvent ourselves in democracy, keeping ourselves faithful to our language, to our roots, to our way of being: platform between cultures, civilizations, continents and oceans. in a word, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we pride ourselves in Portugal. [[General applause, having PSD, PS and CDS-PP applauded standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-25.u19	I declare closed the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLIII Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 11 hours and 45 minutes.]]
