ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Before we get on the agenda, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to take care of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I report that BE announced the withdrawal of lein.o 204 / XIII projects ( 1. ( a ) — Defines the concept of effective beneficiary for the purposes of the IRC Code and 321 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exemption of propines in the first and second cycles of higher education for disabled students. In addition, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to the proposals of lein. 92 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 56 / 2006 of 15 March, corrected by the Declaration of Amendment No 26 / 2006 of 28 April, amended by Decree-Law No 44 / 2011 of 24 March, corrected by Declaration of Amendment No 15 -A / 2011 of 23 May, and by Decree-Law No 106 / 2011 of 21 October, which regulates the form of distribution of net results of social games exploited by Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa ( ALRAM ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 93 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, amendment to the special payment by account ( ALRAM ), which falls to 5. the Commission. motions for resolutions 56 / XIII ( 2 ) were also put into the Bureau. ( a ) — Approves for accession the Second Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Cultural Property in the Case of Armed Conflict adopted in The Hague on 26 March 1999 which falls to 2. the Commission, and 57 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on an Integrated Approach to Security, Protection and Services by Occasion of the Football Games and Other Sports Events, open for signature in Saint-Denis, on 3 July 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau the projects of lein.o 573/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs a committee for the rehabilitation of victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017 and regulates the payment of compensation to the victims of these fires as well as to their heirs ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, with connection to 1. a and 11. a Commission, 574 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August as amended by Decree-Law No 63 / 2015 of 23 April 2015 establishing the legal regime for the operation of local accommodation establishments ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 575 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Union of Freguesias of São Miguel do Souto and Mosteirô, in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, to the Union of Freguesias of São Miguel de Souto and Mosteirô ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 576 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amended Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work and the duties applicable to them, and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February, ensuring the correct transposition of Directive 2005 / 36 / EC(PAN), 577 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the management of works, amending the standard concerning the qualification of project authors ( PAN), 578 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by establishing 35 hours as the maximum limit of the normal working period, equivalent to the Labour Code regime of the General Labour Law in Public Functions ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 579 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Elimination of the risk of asbestos in buildings, installations and equipment of companies ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 580 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Limits the period of loyalty in contracts for the provision of electronic communications services ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 581 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — prohibits the marketing of disposable food utensils in plastic ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 41 / XIII was entered in the Bureau ( 2 ). ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 64 / 2017 of 12 June approving the scheme for new forest biomass plants ( CFP ). In addition, draft resolutions 981 / XIII were introduced ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the defence of a public, quality and universal postal service and by the reversal of the privatisation of the CTT(The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 982 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Rehabilitation of the housing groups designated by « islands » in the city of Porto ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 983 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by ensuring the railway connection to the city of Viseu ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 984 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a set of actions aimed at depolating the Almonda River and its tributaries ( PSD ), 985 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to solve environmental problems caused by processing units of animal by-products in Santa Maria da Feira ( CDS-PP ), 986 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures aimed at depolating the Boagua River ( PS ), 987 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movements by the President of the Republic from 1 August to 31 October ( President of the HR ), 988 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Maintenance and protection of the sources of Olival, Portela, Lagoa Hill, Calvos, Gordinheira and Gestieira, in the municipality of Sertan ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 989 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen responses to mental health ( PSD ), 990 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthen market shares ( PSD ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 991 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to minimize losses of unskilled GHG and BANIF ( BE ) losses, which fall to 5. the Commission, 992 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to put an end to the pollution of the Boagua River and to force the relocation of the main pollutant factory unit ( BE), 993 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Proposals for solutions to the problems of wood production ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 994 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishment of a programme for the reduction and control of forest biomass ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 995 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the urgent measures necessary for the effective and total depolation of the Boa Água River ( CDS-PP ), 996 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Equal working conditions between all employees of the Public Administration and the business sector of the State irrespective of the bond ( BE ), 997 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the integration of all SNS health professionals into careers linked to Public Administration by means of public employment contracts, correcting existing inequalities at the level of public corporate entities ( NAPs ), 998 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the depollution of the river of Good Water and actions to monitor, identify and punish polluters ( PAN), 999 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prevent the exploitation of mineral deposits in the Argemela ( PAN ) greenhouse, which falls to 11. the Commission, 1000 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out a reassessment of the PEPAC internship programme in order to initiate and promote a process of integration of young trainees into the Public Administration ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1001 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop awareness-raising actions with citizens by promoting delivery in the pharmacy of packaging waste and residues of medicines purchased ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1002 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government should make efforts to receive all relevant information for the processing of the difficulties imposed in this context by the Portuguese State, in particular the preparation of a cross-border impact study, as set out in the Espoo Convention ( PAN ), which falls below 2. the Commission, 1003 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Against pollution in the Almond River ( PCP ), 1004 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthening of SNS responses in the area of mental health in Portugal ( PCP ), 1005 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure equal rights between workers with individual employment contracts and workers with public employment contracts ( CFP ) and 1006 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Programme for monitoring and minimization of wild fauna in the national road network ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have for the vote two reports and opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u3	Mr Duarte Pacheco, I would therefore like to take account of the first report and the opinion that we have for the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the first report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics refers to the waiver of the mandate of Member Domicília Costa ( BE ), the electoral circle of the Port, being replaced by Maria Manuel de Almeida Rolla, in the face of the demonstration of impossibility by the candidate who followed him on the list, Mário Augusto de Sousa Moutinho, in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of Members, with effect from 13 July 2017, including. The opinion is in the sense of the waiver of the mandate required by Mr Domicília Costa to be admitted, since it meets the legal requirements, being replaced by Maria Manuel de Almeida Rolla, with effect from 13 July 2017, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco, I would like to ask you to take account of the second report and the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u6	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the second report and opinion refer to the term of office of Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade ( PS ), the Aveiro electoral circle, ending the term of office of Mr Antonio Cardoso, and Mrs Margarida Marques ( PS ), the Leiria electoral circle, ending the mandate of Mrs Odete João, pursuant to Article 6 (1) and (2). the Statute of Members, with effect from 14 July 2017, including the suspension of the term of office of Mr Eurico Brillante Dias ( PS ), electoral circle of Castelo Branco, being replaced by João Carlos Izidoro Marques, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( c ). Article 20 ( a ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of Members, with effect from 14 July 2017, including. The opinion is in the sense of the resumption of the term of office of Mr. Fernando Rocha Andrade and Mr. Margarida Marques, ending his mandate of Mr.António Cardoso and Mr. Odete João, and the suspension of the term of office of Mr. Eurico Brilhante Dias and the assumption of the mandate of Mr. João Carlos Izidoro Marques to be admitted, since they meet the legal requirements, with effect since 14 July 2017, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I thank Secretary Duarte Pacheco for this effort in reading the file. Mrs. Members, let us move on to the first item on the agenda, which consists of a current debate, by marking the CFP, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the privatization of PT, the situation of workers, concentration and monopoly. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PT, Portugal Telecom, which has already been the largest national company, has gone and is being led to destruction. Portugal is losing the main company of a strategic sector for the country, thousands of direct and indirect jobs and an assumed technological vanguard. Since 2000 the set of private managers of PT has delivered almost EUR 15 billion to its shareholders — EUR 15 billion. The state lost the strategic command of PT, the revenue of PT dividends and significant tax revenues—it was only damage! What is happening with PT is the result of the right-wing policy of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, a policy of privatization, liberalization, internationalisation, denationalisation, with the simultaneous reconstitution of monopoly economic groups and foreign capital, which begin to ensure the control of strategic sectors and companies, liquidating decision-making centres located in Portugal. The « film» of the last 23 years of PT is elucidative of a criminal journey: a privatization that began by the hands of the Cavaco Silva PSD and ended with the elimination of gold share, one of the first measures taken by the PSD/CDS government, of arm given to the troika. by the way, other PSD and PS governments were responsible for facilitating, step by step, all the negotiations that placed PT in the hands of the Altice. over these 23 years, the PCP fought the path that led PT to the current situation. On 23 January 2015, in a political statement, the CFP stated that « The decision taken yesterday at the PT General Assembly, by all its shareholders, of sale of PT Portugal to the French Altice fund, constitutes a decision that, benefiting the interests of its shareholders, damages the Country and the workers of PT and endangers the future of the company itself. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PCP applause.]] Altice has been in a gigantic repressive operation of blackmail and harassment against PT workers for months. He decided to fire thousands of workers, freeing himself of the assumed charges that already existed when he bought the company with 3000 workers and the responsibilities with so many other pre-reformed ones. For months it has put hundreds of workers in rooms available, keeping them unoccupied or offering them the functions for which they are overqualified, in unacceptable psychological pressure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u10	Now, the company is setting up multiple fraudulent operations, where it simulates transmissions of establishments and intends to perform the compulsory transmission of workers to service providers. At this moment alone there are more than 200 workers threatened with compulsory transfer and 461 workers threatened to be involved quickly in a similar process if they do not accept the 'friendly' withdrawals of balance. The Labour Code and the Constitution of the Republic do not allow multinationals to do what they are doing. Even with the current Labour Code and regardless of its necessary amendment, the Altice can and should be stopped. The country cannot let PT permanently liquidate itself as a national strategic telecommunications company! The country cannot allow aggression to the workers who are in progress. The Government may, and should, oppose this outcome and create the conditions to guarantee PT as a national capital undertaking under public control, which places the telecommunications sector at the service of the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]] The launch by the Altice of a acquisition operation of Media Capital, which holds TVI, is to be achieved, with the join of MEO, holder of the television signal distribution platform as the main operator, would assign to the Altice an enormous and unacceptable power. An operation that is contrary to national interests, induces an even more concentrated strategy in the sector, threatens jobs and the democratic life of the country. We heard the PSD and CDS defend this multinational. It is the old language of those who assume that the superiors and untouchable interests of shareholders and speculators cannot be questioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u12	of those who not only delivered PT, as they delivered the CTT, ANA, TAP, REN, EDP, Cimpor ( Cimentos de Portugal ), the ENVC ( Estaleiros Navalis de Viana do Castelo ), among others. And they only gave up because the people did not leave and put an end to the government and the destruction strategy that was under way. [[PCP applause.]] But it is not enough to let everything run by the so-called « regulatory entities », for whoever does so will be conjugating the impunity and objectives of this multinational. The Portuguese State has the necessary tools to stop the ongoing fraud and reverse the PT destruction process and has conditions and the obligation to intervene, avoiding an acquisition of VAT by the Altice and the consequences for the country. It takes courage and determination to choose between national interests and the power of a multinational. Determination and courage that PT workers take with their struggle, which we welcome from here. Determination and courage to undertake a process of recovery of PT's public control. Determination and courage that the CFP takes to defend the interests of the workers, the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u13	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PT is a company that could and should be a public power capable of ensuring the control and development of a strategic infrastructure for the country, which are telecommunications networks, and also, by this way, of regulating the whole sector through its practices. But PT has been, over the past few years, a toy in the hands of particular political and economic interests and is now a victim of a group that behaves as an abutre fund — and I am speaking of the Altice, of course — which is a shame in terms of its work practices and which seems to believe that Portugal is a 'banana republic', where the labour laws compensate and where it is possible to resort to all stratagems to dismember a strategic enterprise for the country and to lead to current and future redundancies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u15	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u17	in the past, PT was the victim of bad business, business alienations, and also assisted in the spectacular distribution of dividends. It is worth remembering that only in 2010 were distributed to shareholders, only once, EUR 1500 million tax-free, at the same time as the company was degraded. The corollary of this cannibalization of the company was the total privatization in 2015, which opened the field to these practices of Altice, of disaggregating the company, and that was the starting point for what we are watching today, which is nothing more than the largest process of moral harassment on a large scale, to which Portugal has never witnessed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u18	We are witnessing a process of imposition of psychological torture and terror on workers, of emptying of functions, of activation of geographical and functional mobility clauses to pressure workers to leave their own feet and the misuse and perverse use of a legal figure, which is that of transmission of establishment, to basically promote redundancies and to weaken the working conditions of which, today, is worker of PT. As far as possible, ladies and gentlemen. Members, how can it be possible, Mr Secretary of State for Employment, who, in relation to PT, says that the company does not have the conditions to maintain jobs—and that, in fact, he has tested the use of the status of the company in restructuring so that the State would pay the redundancies it intends to make in the PT and that the Government has refused, and very well—is it now said that it has a provision for the business of EUR 440 million with VAT? How is it possible to watch the fraudulent use of a legal figure resulting from the transposition of a European directive—and I am talking about the transmission of establishment—which has been created to protect workers' rights and the continuity of their jobs, but which is being used to force and force workers to go to companies that do not give them guarantees or, then, to feel pressured to terminate their contract and to remain without their job? The Left Block has followed this situation. We have asked questions to the Government and called for the action of the Government and the Working Conditions Authority. We are in solidarity with the very important mobilisation that is happening on the part of the workers of PT/MEO and with the strike that will be made on the 21st day and not, I repeat, we do not ascribe responsibilities to the level of legislative intervention in this Parliament to shield the law of these fraudulent uses. But, Mr Secretary of State, the government can and should intervene to stop this process. The Government has the mechanisms to prevent the fraudulent use of this law; the Government has the mechanisms to stop this abutre behavior of the Altice, which is destroying a strategic company, violating labour legislation and destroying the lives of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u20	More than we know the individual options of Mr. Prime Minister as a consumer, we need to know what political actions the government is going to put in place now to stop this destruction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u21	Mr Pedro Coimbra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party naturally accompanies the CFP and all the parliamentary groups here who have shown concern about the situation of PT workers. In fact, the Socialist Party and the Government have demonstrated, over recent times, strong and dedicated commitment to the economic recovery of the country at all levels and with a constant and constant concern in what, for us, is one of the main political priorities, which is the fight against unemployment and economic growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u24	We have, in fact, stressed, quarter after quarter, that the results have shown that unemployment rates have, fortunately, fallen. On the other hand, investment, support for job creation, job creation, with the relaunch of Portugal 2020 by the current government as a decisive instrument, have been at the heart of our political concerns, with very visible and very important results for Portugal and for Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u26	Of course, the Socialist Party is attentive to the news that has been made public about developments and events around PT. however, there is also an issue which, for us, is clear: the Republic has laws, laws that we want to see fulfilled and in which we trust, as we also trust the regulatory entities which have also an important role and which have not yet spoken and of which we also look forward to a position in the right time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u27	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The sale of PT Portugal to the French fund Altice may have been a good business for its shareholders. Of course it was. But, as we said at the time and today, more than ever, it becomes evident, it represented a very negative decision for our country, for the national interest and for the workers of PT.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u30	And, as we also said at the time and that today, more than ever, it becomes evident, it was a decision that seriously called into question the future of this large company. It is recalled that all this process began in 1994, with a Government of the PSD / Cavaco Silva proceeding to privatize this strategic company for our country and that it still had as a high moment in 2011 the alienation of the gold share that the state had held. A tool that, in spite of everything, still guarantees the direct intervention of the State and the demanding defence of the national interest. Then there would still be the troubled fusion process with the Brazilian Oi and damaging management operations, of which the financing of Rioforte, of the Espírito Santo Group, is only one example. In view of this framework, what was required of the PSD/CDS Government was to prevent the sale of PT and the initiation of a process of recovery of its public control, placing it at the service of the development of the country and of the interests of the Portuguese. And reasons for preventing the sale were not lacking, from the very outset, the flagrant violation and breach of PT's merger agreement with Oi. In addition, the State was a shareholder of PT, but even if it was not, the government of then, in the name and in the defence of the public interest, should have taken all the necessary steps to defend PT and protect it from foreign interests to the interests of our country. It happens that the PSD/CDS government, literally ignoring the public interest, ended up reducing itself to a mere viewer, as, moreover, it suits the interests of the large economic and financial groups. And that's what matters to prevent this time. The government cannot do what other governments have done in the past; it cannot reduce itself to a mere spectator in the face of the blackmails and maneuvers of the Altice. The government cannot pretend that nothing happens when the Altice intends to fire about 3000 workers or remove rights from the pre-reformed and reformed workers. The Government must make use of all means at its disposal to require the Altice not only respect for labour laws and respect for workers' rights, but also with the public service obligations it has in the country and which cannot go through the destruction of PT which, it recalls, has already been the largest national company. It is necessary to curb the arrogance of the Altice with regard to foot-and-mouth attacks and attacks on workers' rights and to remind the Altice that is not above the laws. The reports that come to us are more than worrying and absolutely unacceptable. Workers speak of psychological terrorism, professional devaluations in an environment of fear and harassment practices, shift of workers to phantom units without assignment of functions, with the clear purpose of forcing workers to terminate their contracts. But the government must also pay attention to the intentions of the Altice regarding the purchase of the Media Capital Group and the creation of a bank. These businesses, to be realized, will be another step in the frightening trend in our economy and the control of the media by the large economic and financial groups. In fact, PT / Altice, which already holds control of the terrestrial digital television network and which already dominates the largest cable operator in our country, would thus take full control, from production to emission and distribution, at a concentration never seen in our country at the level of the television sector. And at least this is very unhealthy for a democracy and a democratic rule of law. That is why the Greens believe that it is absolutely necessary to prevent this megalomanian claim of the domain of social communication by the Altice. It is necessary to prevent the destruction of a company with the size of PT, a strategic company for the country, which ensures thousands and thousands of jobs. It is imperative to remind the Altice that, in Portugal, multinationals and large economic groups, no matter how much money and power they can display, are also subject to compliance with the laws. The Altice must respect the laws and rights of those working and the State must ensure compliance with the law and respect for workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u31	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. It is therefore necessary to make a firm opposition to Altice's claims and to look for ways to guarantee PT as a large company of national capital under public control.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u33	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u34	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, there is a need for strong opposition to Altice's claims and seeking ways to guarantee PT as a large company of national capital under public control, the only way to ensure that the telecommunications sector is at the service of the country's development and the interest of Portuguese. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PCP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u35	For an intervention, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate proposed by the CFP has two parts. The first is explicit: the situation of workers of PT / Altice and the privatisation of Portugal Telecom. The second, implicit and hidden, has to do with the purchase of Media Capital / TVI by Altice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u37	Concealed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u38	On the situation of workers, the PSD reaffirms that all workers' rights must be scrupulously respected. Rights respected under the law, law which José Socrates and Vieira da Silva passed in 2009 only with the favourable votes of the Socialist Party ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u40	... rights guaranteed by the intervention of the Working Conditions Authority — ACT, a body dependent on the Government ; rights ultimately guaranteed by the courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u41	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u42	Therefore, if the rights of workers of PT / Altice are not being scrupulously respected, as the PSD requires, the blame is for this government and its majority, which can make and amend laws and intensify the act. [[PSD applause.]] And the PC... [[The PCP!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u43	...and by now, the Bloc and the Greens don't get out. The CFP is represented by this government and an effective full-time member of this majority. Mrs. Members of the CFP and other'managementists' Members: hypocrisy is enough! Governance is not an act of complaint and of Azedume,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u45	... governing is a time to make effective decisions. Governance is not an act of simulation and deresponsibility; governing is an act of construction. You didn't know? But you have to know! [[All right!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u46	On the privatisation of the company Portugal Telecom, which the PCP abhors, we must make everything clear. Let's get to the facts. The person responsible for this privatisation was José Socrates and his government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u47	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u48	It was Cavaco Silva and Ricardo Salgado!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u49	You, Socialists—and now I address the Socialists—who have used and abused a company that, with thousands of workers, is absolutely strategic for Portugal. It was you socialists who broke up a company in an obscure, obscene and ruinous business broth. [[PSD applause.]] It was you, socialists, who used and abused all of us, in acts of economic Marialism, that we are all paying today. And after all the abuse, of all the manipulation, of all the evils, at the time of the bankruptcy of 2011, they left a legacy to the country and the government that followed you: the elimination of the special rights that the State still maintained in the PT. For all this, we regret that the PCP, now armed with the heirs of José Socrates, does not say who was responsible for the privatization of PT.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u50	Cavaco Silva!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u51	Ah PCP, PCP, you are already missing the frankness and revolutionary mood!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u53	However, this debate has a second, not assumed, hidden, sysline, which connects with the aggressive form as, in recent days, the Prime Minister, António Costa, has attacked the private company, PT / Altice, in the best style of a governor of a banana republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u54	in a strange line of continuity with the triumphant socratism of the past decade, proselyte of the same ticks and the same tricks, António Costa attacks, denigre, envelops private companies. Strange, isn't it? Is it because PT / Altice, when it comes to purchasing Media Capital / TVI, became increasingly uncomfortable for its government of half-truths and of concealment? Is it because PT / Altice / Media Capital / TVI can come to reveal the embarrassing reality of a government that crumbles in view of everyone and, in despair of cause, decrees roll laws in the bodies that should inform the Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u55	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u56	António Costa, in a perfect alignment with his predecessor and political inspiration José Socrates, wants to govern on the basis of dissimulation, subterfuges, inversities and guilt. Like José Socrates, António Costa, face and crown of the same coin, wants to make us believe that the truth in politics has no objective. It is rather a maquila construction of facts and unrealities presented with skill, mana and an irritant optimism. A triviality! A triviality to which the PCP and the Left Block are delivered with denode and commitment, because of course. Who had to say that the PCP and the Left Block would, after all, appear in this comedy of deceptions that José Socrates so well represented and where, with all the evidence, starting with the actors, António Costa is no longer more than a recovery. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u57	Mr President, I ask you to conclude because you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u58	I will finish, Mr. President. Who would have said that the PCP and the Left Block would instrumentalize the workers of a private company to cover untrustworthy purposes of Antonio Costa and the ruling socialists?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u59	Tell me about the layoffs of the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u60	In fact, sometimes, as Pirandello said, reality is more surprising than fiction itself. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u61	What about the layoffs? Don't you say anything?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u62	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PT, Portugal Telecom, is historically a large Portuguese company and was even our largest. It is a company that has an excellent innovation and development centre, it is a company that is responsible for the emergence of products that have changed the telecommunications industry globally and is a company that, in its history, should pride us as Portuguese. That is exactly why we were very concerned about what happened in the company, we were very concerned about the loss of value that PT had, but we also know that this loss of value did not happen now, nor is it today. It happened because of a strategy of totally disastrous internationalization, a strategy that is currently being investigated from a criminal point of view, a strategy that destroyed a significant part of the largest Portuguese company and we also remember that it was the Portuguese State, at the time of a socialist government, that blocked the purchase of PT by a Portuguese group, and today history could be different. We, unlike the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens, do not whiten what happened in the PT in the purchase of Oi, nor forget the totally irresponsible behavior of company leaders, but also of political leaders such as Zeinal Bava, Henrique Granadeiro or José Socrates. We didn't push that under the carpet, we don't do the bleaching, as you came here today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u64	Didn't you hear the speech? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u65	Having said this, Mr President, we have two concerns at the moment: firstly, it is not up to the State to manage private companies, but it is up to the State to ensure that legislation, especially workers' defence legislation, is complied with. It is up to the State to ensure the defence of legality in labour processes. The defence of workers in these same processes must be ensured, and this, yes, is a public function. It is also not for the State to launch a campaign against a company and, above all, it is not for a Prime Minister to launch that same campaign against a company, because ultimately the most disadvantaged are the workers of the same company, if the company has a loss of value. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u66	Second concern: the consequences that may arise from a vertical concentration process, i.e. the fact that an operator can buy a content producer. And the competence of the State in this matter is, above all, the competence of the point of view of regulation, this is a public task par excellence. We are concerned that the Government and the Socialist Party have been mistreating the regulators who will now be called upon to intervene, such as the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication (ERC), with consecration in our Constitution, which is currently appointed because of a beer of the Socialist Party, which is not understood as a fifth name, and this undermines the basic and essential functions of the State. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We are also concerned about a process which is currently taking place in this Parliament in the appointment of the regulators of ANACOM, where, at the first reading of Parliament on this subject, three of the four persons indicated by the Portuguese Government do not have the conditions, in particular from the point of view of exemption, to be able to perform these functions in this same process. Last note, Mr President: Mr Prime Minister, last week, said here that the privatisation of PT was irresponsible. We cannot fail to remind the Government and the Prime Minister that four of the five phases of the privatisation of this company, including that of the majority of the capital, were made by an Eng.o Guterres Government and that the withdrawal of the gold shares was registered in the Memorandum of Understanding of the Troika by a Government of José Socrates.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u67	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u68	Between these two governments there is one thing in common: António Costa. Exactly the same António Costa who, in September 2000, signed a privatisation process of PT, curiously the fifth privatisation process of PT. The Prime Minister is that he was irresponsible in those words. You may have changed your operator, but you haven't changed your nature. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u69	For an intervention, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, for the beginning of the debate, we have seen the usual folklore of the benches on the right. They speak of everything and of its opposite, not to say what they think about this in particular. We, when we talk about Portugal Telecom, are not just talking about a large private company, owned by a multinational company; we are talking about what was already the largest Portuguese company. The investment, the jobs created, the knowledge produced, were — and are still — the brand image of this big company that we have to defend. PT remains a strategic company for the country, although today it is called Altice. And how do you defend a strategic company for the country? How do they defend the rights of their workers? in a rule of law, companies and workers defend themselves against the law. The law defends investment, jobs and knowledge produced and therefore this House which does not cease to address its greatest competence, which is to produce laws. It is in this sense that I cannot but address the episodes brought here by the CDS, as is the case with regulatory entities, in which we also have part of that competence. When we are called to intervene in this part of our competence, what does the CDS do? It confuses a Member's choice and opinion with the choice and opinion of the whole plenary. With regard to this matter, we are talking. Why must the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication be an issue of the Socialist Party and not of the PSD? Oh, my God! Like we don't have equal responsibilities! We don't throw ours away! We never threw up! Ladies and gentlemen who take yours too! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u71	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, to which Mr. Secretary of State for Employment will follow up. Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Guilherme W. d’Oliveira Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal Telecom has been a private company since 2000 and is, since 2011, with the end of the actions with preferential rights, the known goldenshares, a company without State intervention. It was from that date that the State lost any direct intervention in the company; it remained, however, as a listed company and therefore subject to the will of its different shareholders groups. In 2015, after negotiations on the market and after analysis by the competent authorities, the Competition Authority, the Securities Market Commission ( CMMC ) and the European Commission, PT Portugal was bought by Altice. The terms of the business were analyzed by the competent authorities: by the CMVM, with responsibility for regulating and supervising markets and their stability, by the Competition Authority, as an independent administrative entity with cross-border powers over the Portuguese economy for the application of competition rules, and by the European Commission, to whom business terms were referred by the Competition Authority. the subsequent evaluations carried out by the competent entities resulted in the prescription of remedies, conditioning the purchase of PT on sale by the Altice of Cabovision and Oni operations, thus avoiding the concentration of the market by purchase, in particular in the subscription television segment, where market shares at the date of MEMO plus Cabovision would place Altice in a dominant market position. As they understand, State intervention in a fully private company and capital held by another private entity is restricted to compliance with regulatory and contractual rules. Here is an important role of ANCOM ( National Communications Authority ). In fact, ANACOM is responsible for monitoring the performance of PT, a 100 % company owned by Altice, as a communications market operator in its various aspects and in accordance with the law. at the level of the State, direct intervention on private telecommunications companies focuses on the fulfilment of contracts concluded: the contract of the universal service, which covers telephone lists; the contract of public posts awarded to PT ; and the contract concerning the right to use frequencies in the field of digital terrestrial television. It should be noted, however, that ANACOM is not responsible for analysing and regulating the content market, nor for financial operations for the acquisition and disposal of listed companies. To this end, we count on the contributions of the ERC and the CMM, which will be delivered in due course on the issue of the purchase by Altice, Media Capital, in the competences generally assigned to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u73	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u74	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u75	Mr President, I would like to sign up to request clarification from the Secretary of State for Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u76	Of course. Does it matter whether it is after the intervention of the Secretary of State for Employment?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u77	I don't care, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u78	Therefore, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment, Miguel Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There have been complaints about labour issues in the company PT / MEO. This matter, which is the subject of assessment in the Committee on Labour, has been closely monitored by the Ministry and the Government, which has indeed taken a clear and public position against any extension of withdrawal agreements quotas. In particular, these labour materials in PT/MEO have been accompanied by the Working Conditions Authority. In fact, over the past five years, ACT has developed 127 inspection actions in PT / MEO, of which more than 70 were triggered in 2016 and 2017, a sign that ACT is attentive to the evolution of the company. with regard to the specific object of this debate, there are recent complaints that point to possible misuse of the system of transmission of establishment by PT / MEO, questioning the protection of workers. As you know, the transmission of establishment is a mechanism originating in a Community directive which is provided for in the Labour Code and aims to protect not only the freedom of economic initiative of the employer, but also, and essentially, to prevent workers from being affected in their contractual position as a result of the transmission of business or establishment, while maintaining the essential conditions of their contracts. That is why such matters as remuneration, professional category and seniority must remain unchanged. That is why the hard core of rights enshrined in collective regulations cannot be removed even after the effectiveness of the collective contract has been lost. This is also why the use of this legal figure has specific requirements for action and it is up to the ACT to assess, in the field and in particular, whether these requirements are met or not. That is why, in view of the public complaints of workers of PT / MEO, who indicate abusive use of the transmission figure of the establishment provided for in the Labour Code, an inspection action is already under way triggered by the ACT specifically directed to this matter. in the context of this inspection action, the ACT called on the company, which has already been heard, and according to the information we received from the ACT, documentation was collected that is under consideration and, following this investigation, the ACT requested additional elements and notified PT / MEO to do, from now on, proof that it is guaranteed the maintenance of the position of employment contracts in the new employers. however, in addition to the individual rights of workers, it is also concerned whether the legal assumptions that authorize the use of the establishment transmission figure are verified. For this purpose, the ACT will verify, inter alia, whether all of the workers covered by each of the transmission processes would be able to develop on the market an autonomous economic activity in a stable way. in the background, what is at stake is to assess whether or not the legal requirement of economic unity is met, which is expressly provided for in the law. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that this is not a closed process, it is a process that we are following and that in particular the ACT is monitoring and will continue to follow. The guarantee I can give is that our aim is, above all, to safeguard workers' rights and the enforcement of the law and that it will therefore have to be verified by the Act if this legal mechanism is being used in accordance with the letter and spirit of the law, which is precisely that of guaranteeing the rights of workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u80	Mrs. Members, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has signed up in time to make a request for clarification to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure. however, the Government does not have time to respond, which does not prevent the request for clarification from being made. If any parliamentary group wishes to give time to the government, let it do so, because the Bureau cannot do so. You have the floor, then, to request clarification from Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u81	Mr President, first of all, I register that in time I have applied for clarification and I am sure that the Bureau will have the tolerance to give time to the government so that it can answer a very focused question. Mr Secretary of State for Infrastructure, at the moment Parliament is assessing the indigent nature of four persons for ANACOM. The preliminary report on these same personalities considers that three of these four personalities do not meet the requirements, are not adequate to perform these functions, namely because they have incompatibilities, precisely because they come from one of the companies, which has, in fact, been alerted by many market operators. on the 27th day, Parliament will vote on this same report. Mr Secretary of State, I ask you a very specific question: if Parliament considers that these personalities do not have the profile of adequacy and compatibility for these functions, does the government keep these appointments or will replace them? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u82	I wonder if any parliamentary group gives time to the government so that it can respond to the request for clarification. Indeed, an inscription was made in advance to request clarification; however, the distribution of time was not managed in this sense. [[Pause.]] The Bureau will therefore grant 30 seconds for the Government to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u83	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, this is still a decision-making process for which the Government will assess. Obviously, Parliament will exercise its powers and, following this process, the Government will make the necessary readings and evaluate them at the right time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u84	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I address Mr Adam Silva to tell him that the PSD's intervention in this plenary has not ceased to be extraordinary. It was the PSD that began the privatization of PT with Cavaco Silva. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Cavaco Silva, five months before the collapse of PT, decorated Zeinal Bava with the Order of Business Merit, an Order of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u86	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u87	The PSD, which started privatisation with Cavaco Silva and which with the CDS in the Coelho Pass Government abdicated from goldenshare and the vote of the New Bank, handed PT to Altice. He delivered PT to Altice! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The PSD, which has recognized here that there is a political agenda in the purchase of TVI, is the same thing that is irresponsible about what is happening to workers and that in doing so it is consistent with the working lighthouse in which the Altice has transformed PT. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The only proposal that the right has brought to this plenary was that the Republic should kneel before the interests of aboriginal funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u88	Who's kneeling are the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u89	Mr. Secretary of State for Employment, he brought information on the operation of the ATC, but, by valuing the intervention of the ACT, I would like to recall that the Labour Code explicitly provides that in cases of collective dismissal the intervention of the Government is mandatory and, for a company to use the status of a restructuring company, a favourable order of the Government is required. That is why it is not true that the Government would simply attend or delegate to the Act what is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u90	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u91	Finally, Mr President, saying that the Left Block calls on the Government to intervene now and that it has already presented in this Parliament a bill to make the Government's favourable opinion compulsory in such cases so as to enshrine the right of opposition and to make redundancies illegal in the context of transmission of establishment. We would like to know how the various parties that have spoken today will vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u92	For an intervention, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of the debate, the right-wing strategy has not changed and what I think is that it is absolutely unpleasant for Mr Mota Soares to come to believe in an opinion which has not been approved, not even discussed by the Committee on Economics, as if it were an opinion of the Assembly of the Republic. Mr President, the opinion written by your friend is not yet authentic by the Committee on Economic Affairs! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u94	Friend? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u95	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: While we are in this Chamber having this debate, there are hundreds and hundreds of PT workers placed in rooms without assigned functions, subject to an operation of repression, blackmail and harassment that there is no memory in Portugal. We want to appeal to you. Ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries bear in mind that at this time there are hundreds of workers subject to this repression operation: to enter in the morning and leave at the end of the day without having assigned functions, or to be seconded to hundreds of kilometres, or with completely inadequate functions, the result of the operation and the strategy decided by Altice's management in the PT, with the consequences we know. The Secretary of State has already mentioned the intervention of the Act and we want to draw attention to the problems, failures and concerns that this intervention is already worth, from a process that is being dragged over months and months, including in the Assembly of the Republic, and in which workers continue to be subject to those situations. And they themselves turned into examples for the other workers faced with this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u98	It is with deep concern that we want here to draw attention to the problem. This is not a problem of fines and counter-ordinations, that is a political problem, of State intervention before a multinational that reaches Portugal and thinks it is above the law, and that is unacceptable. [[PCP applause.]] Secondly, before this unqualifying action of the Altice in PT, we would like to add the question, which was also mentioned here by my comrade Jerome de Sousa, of the announcement last Friday of the purchase by the Altice of the social communication group that holds the private television and radio channels with higher national audiences, which has an important television producer, which represents the largest concentration and verticalization operation in this sector that our country has already attended. We're talking about the economic group that controls the national TDT network (Digital Terrestrial Television )...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u100	... and the largest cable television operator in the national territory and which is now one of the largest advertisers on the Portuguese market. We are talking about an unprecedented merger in the media, telecommunications sectors, with unpredictable consequences for professionals, for information, for companies in the sector, for the advertising market itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u101	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u102	We are talking about a structural issue of national life for PT workers and all the companies involved in this process, for the national economy, for thousands of businesses and for critical issues for the people's own safety, and even for the decisive aspects of our democratic life, such as freedom of the press and the issue of social communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u104	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u105	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to stress here that irrespective of the necessary amendment of the Labour Code, what is happening today requires concrete, rigorous and determined action by the State, by the Government. It is not possible for a multinational company to arrive in Portugal and to initiate a mass redundancies process masked by a false transmission of establishment, in an authentic fraud, which cannot be allowed. You can't accept that crime compensates like this, sirs. Members of the Government. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]] Therefore, we want to value and welcome the struggle of workers and workers of PT, their mobilization, their unity in action, what is happening today on the ground, opening the way for a struggle journey on this day 21, which will undoubtedly be a decisive step in the workers' response to this unqualified offensive of this multinational.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u107	In addition to what we have been developing in the field, but also in the Assembly of the Republic, seeking to give voice and strength to this struggle and this response that the country has to give to the dismantling of this multinational, the CFP presents and will now enter the Assembly of the Republic, a draft resolution aimed at contributing to halt the liquidation of PT, defend workers and national interest, placing on the table the indisputable issue of the PT's return to public control process, which is the only way to effectively ensure national control and that PT is, in fact, at the service of the people and the country, of development and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u109	It is an incontrovertible issue that we cannot fail to put and therefore we also leave this fundamental reference to the Assembly of the Republic and to the Government. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u110	Mrs. Members, we have thus reached the end of the first item on the agenda with the current debate, by marking the CFP, on the privatization of PT, the situation of workers, concentration and monopoly. We then move on to the second point with the discussion of petition No 218 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the adoption of the measures necessary for an effective and total depollution of the shoreline of the Good Water ( Luís Santos et al.) together with draft resolutions 974 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Depollution of the shoreline of the Good Water ( The Greens), 984 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a set of actions aimed at depolating the Almonda River and its tributaries ( PSD ), 986 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures aimed at depolating the Boa Water River ( PS ), 992 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to put an end to the pollution of the Boagua River and to force the relocation of the main pollutant factory unit ( BE), 995 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the urgent measures necessary for the effective and total depolation of the Boa Água River ( CDS-PP ), 998 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the depollution of the river of Good Water and actions to monitor, identify and punish polluters (PAN) and 1003 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Against pollution in the Almond River ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u111	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u112	Mrs. Paula Teixeira of the Cross, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u113	Mr President, in order to announce an impediment on my part to participate in this vote, I pay attention to the content of one of the draft resolutions. in this way, I will withdraw from the Chamber and will not participate in the vote, I am paying attention to this impediment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u114	Madam Member, let's just get into the debate. We are not yet in the vote, but from now on, the Bureau is advised.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u115	I know, Mr President, but even in the debate I will withdraw from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u116	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, to welcome all the petitioners who have considered it relevant to deliver to the Assembly of the Republic, and to sign - it, subscribe - it, petition No 218 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which calls for the adoption of the measures necessary for the effective and total depolation of the shoreline of the Good Water. This river, as the name itself indicates, gives us the idea of a water resource that was once a source of recognized quality. However, the pollution problem with which the river of Good Water is currently facing is already long. The pollution sources are identified, but the pollution reality of this shore is what the population effectively confronts. The Minister of the Environment has even said that Fabrioleo, one of the identified polluters, is regarded as a militant offender. Now, since these sources of pollution are identified, confronting the populations and authorities with the recurrent pollution of this water resource, the question that it requires is the following: what takes time for the necessary measures to be taken in the direction of the depollution of this river which is flowing from the river Almonda, which crosses the Town Hall of Torres Novas? The petitioners even invoke their right to the environment and to the quality of life, registered in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and in the Basics of the Environment Act. Therefore, what the Greens bring today to the Assembly of the Republic is a proposal for Parliament to call on the Government to proceed, firstly, with the process of identifying and publishing the sources of pollution from the banks of the Good Water, secondly, with the programming and timing of the measures necessary for the depollution of this river, with the involvement of local agents, and finally with the guarantee of supervision that ensures prevention in relation to the non-pollution of the banks of the Good Water. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u118	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of pollution in the banks and banks of the Santarém district is not new. Fortunately, in the last term of office, some environmental problems, such as the Alcanena Town Hall, have been appreciated, but in Torres Novas Town Hall, the problem is unfortunately not solved. at the end of last government, there was a concrete company, already mentioned here, Fabrioleo, which saw its discharge license suspended for a few months. There will certainly be other sources of pollution, there will be companies, public and private entities, which are polluters, because pollution exists. It is necessary to accurately verify who the polluters are so that no one is hiding behind anyone. As the sources identified, having already done this research by the City Hall, APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) does not realize only why public entities do not act. And here the action that is necessary is one, of two: either close the companies and entities that pollute, or help those entities recover and improve their performance, like many other cases that have already been done by the country outside. What matters is to understand what public competence is and what the government and the authorities are willing to do. There is a political consensus here that we need to invest in the public and in the private in order to put an end to this shame that has been going on in this region for many years. We need to ask what the City Council has done or can do, what the government can and should have done and what companies are willing or obliged to do. It's not time for demagogy, it's time to solve this problem! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no other opportunity to bring this consensus together, to put an end to pollution on this river and to the rivers that it is flowing. People living there have health problems, agriculture, animals, fauna and flora also have problems because of this and no economic investment can be overshadowed by the environment. It is time to act courageously and we do not hide behind the House, behind the government, behind the Agency or behind the company a or b. It is time for each one to take responsibility and give voice to those people who are there, who, anonymously, have, over the years, fought against this problem. It is time for this House to give them an answer. the Government is immediately required to understand which sources of pollution, to make concrete decisions and, above all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u120	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u121	...to help that City Hall, private associations of social solidarity and private companies to regain the path of respect for the environment, because it seems that many have already lost it and have no respect for people, animals or nature. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u122	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group are to greet the approximately 5700 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition, many of them present here. I would also like to congratulate you, Mr. President of the City Council, Mr. Pedro Ferreira. The participation of communities in decision-making is crucial. Your cause, the protection of the environment in the region, is the cause of everyone, as it is visible in the proposals made by all parties and parliamentary groups. It is necessary to identify the pollutants. It is necessary to punish offenders and to help find solutions to these same problems. It is necessary to ensure measures aimed at the effective and total depollution of the so-called « river of Good Water ». The river of the Good Water, unlike its name, presents obvious and worrying outbreaks of pollution and bad smell. All those living there or crossing the region know the situation, which has become worse. The population is, and well, concerned, afraid of the health of their children and their grandchildren. Social alarm is a reality in the Town Hall of Torres Novas, such as concern with the environment, with the economy, with the future and with public health. Public management must fight for health, for the quality of life of all and for the sustainability of the territories. That is our obligation here in Parliament. The water resource in question is a tributary of the Almond River which, in turn, is a tributary of the Tejo River, so many times already debated in this House. It is precisely in the important confluence of these two rivers, Almonda with the Tejo, which is the Natural Reserve of Paul do Boquilobo, Natural Reserve of the Biosphere by UNESCO, located a few kilometers from the so-called river of the Good Water. Paul do Boquilobo was considered by the noble prize of literature, José Saramago, from the region, as a lake, a swamp, an averca that the landscape creator had forgotten to take to paradise. This situation should therefore deserve the full attention of government entities. That is why we are here. That is why you can count on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to ensure that the law is complied with...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u124	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u125	... and propose measures that clearly allow for the effective depolation of the shoreline of the Good Water. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u126	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Pollution, bad smells and degradation of quality of life continue to be the day by day of the populations of Carreo da Areia, Meia Via, Nicho de Riachos and Torres Novas. I take advantage of this to greet the population here, as well as the city of Torres Novas. Preventing people from opening a window in their home is extreme violence. Force them to move to other places so that they can have a minimum quality of life is a face-to-face to their most elementary rights. Extreme degradation of quality of life and daily violence are exactly what is being imposed on these populations. Probably, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, only a few years from now we will be able to fully assess the harmful consequences of pollution on the banks of the Boa Water, caused by the Fabrioleo company, which has long been identified as a source of pollution. The consequences of these environmental crimes are multiple and we are all faced with a choice today: either we oblige criminals to respect environmental standards, the law and the health of the people or, due to complicity passivity, refugees in procedural difficulties, we allow these crimes to continue, with the terrible consequences we all know. in recent times, we have seen a real offensive in public opinion, by the polluter company, Fabrioleo, aiming at the whitening of their responsibilities. This will not be different from the fact that the investigation of criminal investigations is under way and has recently been carried out a general review of their premises. The struggle that the people have been fighting, whether on the street or in the institutions, has been decisive in keeping this serious problem on the agenda, and so it will have to continue. The people are right and do very well not to give up. The Ministry of the Environment has long known the problem and the face of criminals. This recognition makes even more unacceptable the notorious a tibiasity of his intervention to end hell.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u128	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u129	I will finish, Mr. President. We are in solidarity with the people. Companies like this have to install, with the infrastructures appropriate to their activity, in places where they do not harm populations, or the environment, otherwise, will have to be closed. Fabrioleo must respect people's law, well-being and health. And it has to be now, because yesterday was already late! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u130	You now have the floor to Mrs. Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the 5700 petitioners present here, and also Mr. President of the House. The CDS accompanies the concerns that are expressed in this petition, which are also our concerns. Unfortunately, the pollution problems, particularly in the Tejo, in the Almond River and its tributaries, have worsened in recent years and all the measures that have been implemented and all the actions that have been carried out have proved insufficient, despite the enormous commitment of both the political power and the Assembly of the Republic, with a wide range of resolutions already adopted here and of civil society, which have contributed much to denounce the problems that exist. The petitioners demand, and well, that the environment and quality of life of the population be safeguarded, but they also recognize, and well, the importance of economic activity for the development of the region. The CDS therefore believes that it is essential, in fact, to identify the offenders, some of them known and already mentioned here and others, perhaps not yet known, because they all need to be identified. It is also necessary to apply serious and effective punitive measures, which are really dissuasive of the offender's prevarication. It is still necessary to strengthen surveillance so that pollution episodes do not repeat again. We understand that this or that company should not be diabolized because it is not just one — and I do not want to stop solving the problems that are identified with this company — which is why all polluters should be identified and all offenders should be punished. What is essential is, indeed, to solve pollution problems, to clear the shore and allow economic activity to be sustainable and co-exist. In fact, to conclude, I leave a final note of a study by the Faculty of Sciences of Lisbon, which was left here by the petitioners, which is clear to identify evidences of multiple other sources of pollution, probably even according to the study, much more influential in the degradation of watercourses than those of the company concerned. Finally, I just want to say that the Minister of the Environment has been asked in January this year to provide information that would be considered relevant for the analysis of this problem, but unfortunately it has not reached the Assembly of the Republic, or at least it is not in the system, any type of documentation, which seems to us to indicate a lack of action and commitment on the part of the Government. in this sense, the CDS presents this draft resolution, which recommends to the Government the measures necessary for the effective and urgent depollution of the River of Good Water. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u132	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, very late. Mr André Silva has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: The River of Good Water, a tributary of the Almond River, corresponds to one of the most polluted water resources in Portugal. There are several news and facts that testify to the long history of clear indications of pollution in this Ribeira, where it is clear that its state is absolutely deplorable. This continuous pollution has a clear and unquestionable origin: the food oil industry which deposits its effluents in Ribeira bed, including oils, fats and other contaminants. This same is attested by the various counter-ordinative processes against the pre-varicing company. It is the Ministry of the Environment itself to point out that this food oil company has a long record of illegal discharges in Ribeira, detected by supervisory actions promoted by the Portuguese Environment Agency and the GNR. In view of this picture, it is concluded that in this serious environmental offence we once again have the supervisory and inspection authorities to do their work without any final practical consequences, which ends up legitimizing and empowering companies that degrade the environment to their pleasure, always on behalf of it: profit at any price. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must therefore channel energy for the depollution of the River of Good Water, but we must also properly sanction the companies that commit these environmental attacks, in addition to an effective strengthening of the monitoring and surveillance actions, which are very important for both prevention and the identification of precursors.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u134	Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CFP, I would like to greet the subscribers of this petition and stress the right reasons for their assistance. Indeed, it is the occurrence of environmental crimes that affect the River of Good Water, which are inserted into a set of violations of the law in environmental matters that affect the river Almonda water network and that it is important to pay attention. In fact, the situation in this petition has resulted in the impunity of offenders for the commission of environmental crimes that seriously affect the quality of life of the population. And if this happens, it is because, indeed, the necessary measures have not been taken to ensure that the law is fulfilled. The votes we make, with the approval of resolutions by this House, concerning the depollution of the River of Good Water and the Almond water network as a whole, are those that these approvals have effectively consequences. It is important that this House, through the initiative of all parliamentary groups, undertake to ensure that the authorities who have to act in relation to the pollution of the Almond water network do so. The SEPNA (Environment and Nature Protection Service) of the GNR, the Portuguese Environment Agency, all the entities that have responsibilities for them here, so that environmental crimes are not unpunished and so that it can effectively proceed not only to the depollution of this hydrographic network, which is necessary, but also to the prevention of future environmental damage. We do not want the destruction of businesses or jobs, we believe that economic activity is important, but economic activity must comply with the law, respect the quality of life of citizens and cannot result in a deterioration of the quality of life of populations. That's what we claim. What we hope is that what is approved here will have consequences. And we want to say that we understand that the Assembly of the Republic — and, on our part, we will fulfil our duty — will pay attention to the practical consequences arising from the resolutions here today, adopted and that the citizens who took this initiative, and very well,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u136	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u137	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the Assembly of the Republic will be alert to the practical consequences arising from the resolutions today, here, adopted, so that the citizens, who have taken this initiative, and very well, can feel that it was worth it to take it and that, more than good words, what has actually been real consequences in their day-to-day life. And in this regard, we will be careful. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u138	Mrs. Members, we conclude the joint assessment of petition No 218 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolutions Nos 974 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 984 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 986 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 992 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 995 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 998 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 1003 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We move on to the third point of our agenda today, which consists in the assessment of petition No 21 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Equal labour rights between workers with individual employment contracts and workers with public employment contracts in the institutions of the Portuguese State ( Mauro Germano de Carvalho Rosa and others) together with draft resolutions 996 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Equal working conditions between all employees of the Public Administration and the business sector of the State irrespective of the bond ( BE ), 997 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the integration of all SNS health professionals into careers linked to Public Administration by means of public employment contracts, correcting existing inequalities at the level of public corporate entities ( NAPs) and 1005 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure equal rights between workers with individual employment contracts and workers with public employment contracts ( CFP ). For an intervention to present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two work regimes in the public administration perimeter that end up creating an injustice for workers who, doing the same work, are not subject to the same regime, the same labour law. Two workers on the perimeter of the Public Administration, in the public service, who perform exactly the same functions, under the same hierarchy, who fulfil the same orders, who have the same obligations, who have the same duties, do not have the same right to career. Some may have access to career, are evaluated and may progress, others are protected by these rights; some have a remuneration table where they can evolve; others are deprived of that right; some have a holiday scheme, others have another holiday scheme; some have rules of access to health protection; others have a different health protection regime. These workers have an individual employment contract and are governed by the Labour Code. They actually do civil servants' work, but they are treated by the law of a private company. This inequality worsened a lot when public officials were recognized the right to the replacement of 35 hours of work. Now, whoever works in these services with individual employment contracts kept 40 hours. We therefore have the greatest injustice, which is to be side by side, for example, to work in the same service, as is the case of the nurse Mauro — the petitioner who gave rise to this discussion, and we greet — a nurse who has more right to rest than his colleague, although a citizen enters the public service, does not know what the bond of that worker is and therefore demand the exact same quality, exactly the same merit. So what the Left Block here brings, seems to us, is a clear one: public services cannot be treated as companies and their workers must all be subject to the work regime in public functions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u140	Mr André Silva has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Currently, in hospitals with the status of public corporate entities, health professionals are hired with a contract of employment in public functions or with an individual employment contract. As a result, although they may perform the same functions, they do not have the same rights, and there are several differences, in particular in access to ADSE ; on holidays ; in the possibility of increases for workers with employment contracts in public functions; in the pay and career progression differences and at the maximum limits of the normal working period, of 35 hours for workers with employment contracts in public positions and 40 hours for the rest. Thus, in order to correct this situation that has been dragged too long ago, the NAP today brings a proposal to debate that aims to ensure the integration of all professionals of the National Health Service in careers linked to the Public Administration, through employment contracts in public functions. We recall that in April 2016 the Assembly of the Republic adopted a recommendation to the Government for this purpose. It is urgent to harmonise the working conditions of these professionals by providing them with a single career and fulfilling the Constitution, observing the principle that 'for equal work equal pay'.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u142	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the petitioners who have submitted this important claim that we have discussed here: equal work, equal rights. It was by a PSD / CDS government in 2004 that individual employment contracts were introduced into the Public Administration. At this time, the PSD and the CDS presented as an important step in the modernisation of the sector, the introduction of the individual labour contract and its framework within the framework of the Public Administration. Unfortunately, time gave reason to the PCP. On the date of 2004, we warned that the option of introducing individual employment contracts in the Public Administration would introduce precariousness, unschedule and increase working hours, promote situations of inequality and disadvantage the situation among workers who perform exactly the same functions. Today, in our country, thousands of workers are faced with situations of inequality, they work side by side, performing exactly the same functions, but with different rights. from the PCP we believe that the principle of equal work, equal rights must be fully met, and not only in matters relating to working hours, and that, with regard to the application of 35 hours to all employees of the Public Administration, regardless of their link, we had the opportunity to correct this injustice which was unfortunately rejected with the votes of the PS, PS, PS, and the CDS-PP. But inequalities are not just about 35 hours, there are other matters that need to be assured. For this reason, the CFP presents this proposal, because we believe that there is an opportunity to correct this injustice, regardless of a parallel discussion that has to be made regarding the public link by appointment, which was destroyed by Law No 12 -A / 2008. We understand that the existence of public services requires careers and valued workers and this is the contribution that the CFP brings here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u144	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the 4111 subscribers of the petition now under discussion, in the person of the first petitioner, Mauro Germano de Carvalho Rosa. This petition draws attention to the trick that has been, and is, the return to 35 hours of work in the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u146	Where'd you ever see such a weirdo? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u147	The petitioners ask for equal labour rights between workers with individual employment contracts and workers with employment contracts in public positions. It was not due to lack of warning; the CDS always called attention to the inequality they were creating PS, Left Block and PCP. In fact, the time goes when Prime Minister Antonio Costa promised 35 hours immediately and for everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u148	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u149	It should be remembered, firstly, that it was not immediately, that it was there in the middle of the year and wishing, secretly, that it was only at the end of the year. And secondly, it was only for part of the workers, for workers with employment contracts in public functions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u150	The truth is that PS, Left Block and PCP have consciously agreed that they would create first-class workers and second-class workers,... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u151	For CDS they're all second-hand workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u152	...some 35 hours and others 40 hours. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] 40 hours, in fact, are all employees in the private sector and state workers with individual employment contracts. I repeat, it was the PS, the Left Block and the PCP that created this inequality to content their support groups, even if for that, the public services provided to the people had to suffer restrictions. This was the case, in fact, in education, with schools that closed because of the lack of education assistants. It's like this in health. And, yes, it is true, we warned that nurses, doctors, operational assistants, diagnostic technicians, to work in the same service, sometimes in the same physical space, in the same room, to perform the same functions, would become different schedules. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u153	The first with 35 hours and the second with 40 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u154	Why didn't you vote in favour of our proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u155	Now, after being notified by the CDS, and confronted with the consequences of its actions, the Left Block, the PCP and the PAN come to recommend to the Government to ensure equal rights between the two types of workers? Oh, my God! It's more hypocrisy. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It's no shame! Pretending they want to solve a problem they've created? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u157	The CDS has always had a very clear position:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u158	Tell that to people!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u159	...we do not understand or accept this inequality. It is not fair and it was a wrong signal that you gave to society to satisfy your support, with the sacrifice of public services. In fact, I confess that I am curious about how you will solve the mess you have created! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u160	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Álvaro Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD welcomes the 4111 petitioners who brought here a fundamental issue, that of equality. Complaints of inequalities which this Government has created with the decision to reduce working hours in the Public Administration for 35 hours, but only for some.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u162	Because the PSD didn't want everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u163	A broken decision without thinking about the citizens inside and outside the Administration. This government has decided in a hurry and the injustices are in sight. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u164	But those who always pay for the slots on the left are the people. The government promised that there would be no 35-hour impact, but they are there, just go to a school, a hospital or any public service. with regard to solving the problems of the Portuguese, what this government has shown is inability, a huge inability to solve problems, even those it itself created. Data from the government itself say, near-white, that because of 35 hours it was necessary to hire more 3400 operational assistants, especially for schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u165	And that's good or bad?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u166	The opposite happened, as the number of operational assistants in schools, from January 2016 to now, instead of increasing, has decreased to close to 400 workers. Those who are paying are the children and young people in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u168	Who is paying is the future of Portugal, they are our young people, parents and teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u169	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u170	Mrs. Members of the management, how do you want to ensure that there is safety in schools if, because of your responsibility at the moment, there are no 4,000 operational assistants, according to figures from your government? The same happens with nurses and other professionals indispensable to quality public services,... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] ... to public services which had much more quality during the previous government. And this, today, out there, is clear to all citizens: public services were much more estimated by the state at the time of the PSD/CDS government, despite the pre-bank and troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u171	Very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u172	Very clear! They're all asking for the return of Pedro Passos Rabbit...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u173	Mrs. left-wing members, because of the 35 hours, more than 2000 nurses were missing in hospitals and health centres, which have not yet been hired. We all pay: pay professionals, with high workloads, and pay users with delays and worse services. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u174	Because of the 35 hours there are today workers next to each other doing the same thing,... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] ... but with different times. Because of this government there is more inequality in the administration today, and they are the petitioners who say so. Because disability sends more than justice, the government blows to the side. To keep up, the parties on the left do draft resolutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u176	...to keep track of what they're doing, but not doing anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u177	No more, no less!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u178	They are projects without reforming concern, without evaluation of the services of the State where workers are missing, rough projects, without concerns of rigor or efficiency.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u179	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u180	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Petitioners and dear fellow citizens who despair, waiting for the promises of this government to be fulfilled, families who feel no safer, elderly people who see increased injustice and inequality, let them tell you: wait or despair but do not comply! [[PCP protests.]] [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u181	For an intervention, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and on behalf of the Socialist Party, I would also like to greet the petitioners and, above all, to congratulate them, in a very special way, for having chosen this form of civic and democratic participation, the petition. This is a petition which points to the coexistence of two types of employment contracts — individual employment contracts and public employment contracts — arguing that this is a historical error and therefore asking the Assembly of the Republic to correct it. I would like to remind you of the process that gave rise to 35 hours in public service at the end of the 1990s, in which, in fact, the civil service unions for five years abdicated from wage increases, earning an hour of work per day until they reached 35 hours. I call your attention, because not only the workers in public office were not increased for five years, as it turned out that their base of incidence, when they finally had an increase, was obviously much lower. In other words, workers, public officials paid very much the 35-hour working hours. Of course, we in the Socialist Party understand very well the awkwardness of the CDS and PSD, which, in our view,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... they grossly violated a constitutional right to collective bargaining, unilaterally imposing a 40-hour schedule on public service workers. In addition to this situation that also exist, and coexist, in individual employment contracts, workers who have agreed in 40 hours, such as doctors, and others who have already been admitted with hours of 40 hours. The Socialist Party's Government's commitment was to reverse the situation to which public service workers had been unfairly subjected. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] This is different is the negotiation of new working conditions, until there are different situations and very different scope in the draft law of the NAP and in the three draft resolutions, one of the Block, another of the PCP and another of the NAP, which are currently under discussion. in these projects there are some situations that are typically from the working code forum, others that are from the forum of the General Labour Law in Public Functions and others that are materials proper to collective bargaining processes. I also call your attention, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the fact that the organization of working time is an essential subject of social dialogue, which has not yet been mentioned here. In short, we have difficulty in understanding how it is that, on the one hand, if we intend to promote collective bargaining and that such an approach is made in collective bargaining and, on the other, if we always want to narrow the negotiating space, remembering, for example, that the question of holidays and other rights are clearly matters of collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u183	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u184	Mr. President, I'll be done. In short, I must say that different situations correspond to different regimes, so we do not think the arguments presented in the three diplomas are acceptable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u185	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor again for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To make it clear, I must say that there is a distinction regarding 35 hours, because PS, PSD and CDS did not want to guarantee it to everyone. It is that, Mr. Álvaro Batista, it was not by draft resolution, it was by bill that the PCP proposed the application to all. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u187	All of us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u188	The honourable Member was present at the trial and you know. Therefore, if we are talking today about the existence of situations of inequality in the application of 35 hours, this inequality is responsible for: PS, PSD and CDS, which rejected PCP proposals. [[PCP applause.]] [[Álvaro Batista PSD Member's laughs.]] So you can laugh at yourself, but this is not funny at all. You can laugh at the will, the life of people is that they have no grace, because they are side by side, service, to perform exactly the same function, but with less rights. That is why the proposal we bring to this House today is the 35 hour guarantee for all, and it is also related to other matters that remain unequal. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, we have warned. In 2004 it was by the hand of a PSD Government and the CDS that individual employment contracts were introduced into the Public Administration and in 2004 the PS voted against that introduction. Now, we regret that in 2017, having spent these years and faced with evidence of the result of this inequality, the PS will join the PSD and CDS to say that it does not agree with the guarantee of equal treatment. We regret that, in fact, we would have a historic opportunity today to guarantee equal treatment for these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u189	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u190	I will finish, Mr. President. It is that if, in 2004, the introduction of inequality was proposed by PSD and CDS, today, the PS, which can choose to correct this injustice, prefers to join the PSD and the CDS. from the PCP side, we continue to be on the side where we have always been, the workers and the guarantee of working conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u191	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The perverseness of the PSD and the CDS in this debate is that they want to instrumentalize a petition and these petitioners to attack a right of workers in public office, ignoring that what petitioners ask us is to access the rights of workers in public office. It is therefore necessary to be ashamed to deceive the House and use this kind of demagogy, to use people who want to access rights in this way, to attack the rights to which these workers want to access. What we are dealing with here is a constitutional principle: for equal work, equal wages. If there is anyone in this House who disagrees with this principle, he should have the courage to say. But if we all agree that for the same functions, for the same work there must be the same wage and, therefore, the same law, then what we have to do is correct the historical mistake that was to treat workers in public office as if they were employees of companies, i.e. to apply to workers in public service a work regime that is a company. We must recognise that these workers are civil servants—that is what we demand of them when we go to a public service—and must have the same rights as those workers who, in addition to them, perform the same functions, for the benefit of the rights that we all have and that we want to exercise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u193	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the third point of our agenda. We move on to the fourth point which consists in the joint assessment of petition No 219 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the adoption of the measures necessary to stop the smelling of the hull from factories located in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira ( Maria Clara Martins da Silva Carvalho et al.) and of the draft resolutions Nos 973 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — To solve the pollution caused by two processing units installed in Arrifana, Santa Maria da Feira ( Os Verdes), 978 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to definitely end pollution and the bad smells caused by two factories in Arrifana, Santa Maria da Feira ( BE ) and 985 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to solve environmental problems caused by processing units of animal by-products in Santa Maria da Feira ( CDS-PP ). To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the Ecological Parliamentary Group « The Greens » goes to the petitioners who signed petition No 219 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) under the motto « Smell the hull, no! Do not keep on seeking. ” I believe that we should take this petitioners' claim very seriously in view of the many years they have faced with this problem of pollution. The Greens have repeatedly brought this matter to the Assembly of the Republic, in particular in the form of a question to the Government and we have therefore warned, we have pressured successive governments on this matter. But the truth is that citizens are still faced with this problem. This problem stems from animal by-product processing companies, specifically the companies Rogério Leal & Filos and Luís Leal & Filos, which are already in open war with the surrounding populations for many years and which are installed in Santa Maria da Feira, the parish of Arrifana. In fact, populations are faced with pollution caused by very strong and unbearable odors. Since the facilities in Santa Maria da Feira, the truth is that the most affected locality, taking into account the orientation of the winds, is even Saint John of Madeira. This is the locality that feels the greatest harmful effect, so let us say, due to this industrial activity. We believe that the words of a citizen of São João da Madeira are very clear when he says that, despite the atticity still in the lands of Santa Maria da Feira, the Sanjoanians are the most injured because when the smell arises it is necessary to collect it, as if a plague were being treated. I believe that this makes the problem very clear that those populations are effectively confronted with very clearly. In addition to the nauseaous smells, the polluting activity of these industries may not yet remain here. There is also a strong suspicion that there can be contamination of surface and underground water lines due to a poor treatment of waste water. in this sense, Mr President, even to conclude, what the Greens are asking the Assembly of the Republic is that together we urge the Government to take the necessary steps to definitely solve the problem of the nauseaous smells that affect the quality of life of these populations. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u195	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the more than 5000 petitioners who bring to this Parliament a problem that has been felt for many years in the councils of Santa Maria da Feira, São João da Madeira, and also in some of the parish churches of Oliveira de Azemés. The petition is entitled « Smell the waterfall, no! » and those living in these councils know exactly what this so-called "smelter smell" is. It is a nauseabondo smell from two animal by-product processing companies. It is a smell of animal fats and rot that questions the quality of life of the populations and shows that pollution can also be felt in this way, through the smell, and which is issued, I repeat, by the work of these two companies. The Left Block questioned the Government at the beginning of this year exactly about this problem and the Government told us that on 20 February a survey was carried out for these two companies and made recommendations which should be implemented in 90 days. The truth is that these 90 days have been long and that no amendments have been made either. The quality of life of the populations continues to be damaged, the smell continues to be present and the work of the companies continues to be done. That is why the Left Block presents to this House a legislative initiative that aims to do what is required, i.e. that the Government implement very concrete solutions to reduce the impact of the work of these companies, on the quality of life and on the health of these populations. For many years people have been affected by the pollution that is emitted by these companies; for many years a solution has been claimed. The Left Block has this solution in this legislative initiative, and we therefore look forward to its approval by the other political parties. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u197	Mr João Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate all the petitioners. The best honour we can give them is to say that effectively the effort they have made, the signatures they have collected should be unnecessary, because long ago the State should have solved this problem. It is extraordinary that, in the middle of the 21st century, in a municipality with a bright industrial activity, the main problem of quality of life, the main environmental problem has to do with a smell, as it was said here, nauseabundo that, in many periods of many days of the year, makes life in the city of São João da Madeira, but also in the parish of the municipalities of Feira and Oliveira de Azemés, perfectly impossible. Still, last Friday, this situation could be seen that it helped to make it possible to be on the street in St. John of Madeira that it was absolutely impossible to smell that it felt. What we propose here is simple: it ends with the game of cat and mouse! The public authorities have excused themselves for supposed difficulties that they do but do not have any effect. Nor in terms of licensing, nor in terms of supervision, to date, has any act been done by the State preventing the smell and damage to populations from continuing to exist. Therefore, what we propose here is simple, i.e. that this government assumes responsibility either through the Ministry of Economics or through the Ministry of the Environment, to promote the efforts to, in addition to all the verification that must be made of air quality, water, possible pollution acts resulting from this activity, to identify that there is a greater problem that is the quality of life of these populations. The quality of life of these populations is affected by this smell and can only be restored when this smell ceases to exist. What we propose in the CDS draft resolution is exactly that these measures be taken to bring justice to these populations. We are confident and confident that if the other parliamentary groups accompany this concern, they will certainly also follow this initiative with the vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u199	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome the PS Parliamentary Group to the Members. and Mr. Petitioners. The petition refers to a problem that the populations of the municipalities of Santa Maria da Feira and especially of São João da Madeira live. The populations cannot continue to be conditioned by environmental pollution that occurs with the uncomfortable and disgusting smell of high intensity coming from the known industrial units that work in the parish of Arrifana. The populations cannot be conditioned to the variability of the winds of the Atlantic or the South, of rain or heat, of the tonalities of the fumes which, invariably, occur in the morning, in the evening or in the evening. Populations cannot continue to be dependent on the technological solutions that the companies in question develop or implement. The populations cannot continue to claim surveillance, intervention by the chambers of Santa Maria da Feira and São João da Madeira, when they already have, by direct responsibility, this surveillance, objective intervention and compliance with the law. Populations cannot continue to wait for the Portuguese Environment Agency to move to industrial units, suggest interventions to owners or apply only counter-coordinations. Populations are not responsible for monitoring smells or identifying anomalies replacing local and national authorities, until they are not the populations that revalidate licenses and allow these situations to drag down decades ago. But the fact is that we are here today discussing this issue because there is a petition from the people. We all realize that the problem is of another dimension, even because the pass-through of the chambers of Santa Maria da Feira and São João da Madeira for the state bodies, and these for the companies, is a practice that does not solve the problems. This process does not dignify the local and public authorities involved or companies. in this sense, the PS Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the draft resolutions under consideration, not only because it shares its content, but above all because of the social, environmental and political obligation that we jointly owe to these peoples and to these territories. Public entities are definitely and effectively called for more assertive and resolute intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u201	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the 5100 subscribers to petition No 219 / XIII ( 2. a ) and I will do so in the person of the first subscriber, Maria Clara Martins da Silva Carvalho, whom I use to greet. Mrs. Members, it is not from now on that the populations of the municipality of São João da Madeira and the neighbouring municipalities are confronted with the smell of gross animal fats, vulgar « smell the waterfall », coming from the processing company of by-products of animal origin, located in Santa Maria da Feira. We often underestimate the pollution caused by unpleasant odors and this because this pollution is often seemingly harmless. But the truth is that it calls into question the quality of life of whole communities which, in the particular case of São João da Madeira, are subjugated by a company that persists in failing to respect the air quality standards to which it is obliged. Of course, we recognize and are indisputable the economic, social and richness that the company represents for the region, but it also does not cease to be true that the bad smells produced and disseminated are intense and strongly uncomfortable, often becoming even unbearable. Mrs. Members, all the public positions and diligences developed, especially by the municipality of São João da Madeira, have not led to measures that definitely solve the problem. I remember that in Parliament too, we have already questioned the Minister of the Environment several times, more specifically at four regiment hearings. The Minister recognises the existence of the problem, but that is not enough, it does not solve. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot reassure ourselves that the situation has been going on for many years and that is why the population can continue to bear this burden. On the contrary, it is unacceptable that, in the middle of the second decade of the 21st century, and in the face of scientific and technological developments, this situation still persists. These populations deserve government intervention because it is the responsibility of the State to promote the quality of life of citizens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u203	For an intervention on this item on the agenda, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like, from now on on on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, to welcome the more than 5000 petitioners who have brought their concern and claim to the Assembly of the Republic as regards the nauseaous, strong and unbearable smells commonly known or referred to as « smell of the waterfall », from the factory activity of companies based in Santa Maria da Feira, two animal by-product processing factories. This is a problem that, while still reaching other municipalities in the district of Aveiro — Santa Maria da Feira and Oliveira de Azemés — is indeed more meaningful in São João da Madeira and its population. The matter dealt with in this petition is a concern expressed by the population of the region for decades, a concern that the CFP has been accompanying and on which it has intervened. In addition, as regards one of the manufacturing units, the CFP then fought with several actions with competent authorities and entities to eliminate pollution caused by this processing unit and its consequences. We recognize, of course, the importance of manufacturing units for the economy of the region, but we also believe that solutions must be found that respond to the problems reported more than 30 years ago by the population of the region, solutions that also take into account the preservation of the environment and that ensure compliance by these factories with all the legal assumptions for the exercise of their activities, particularly with regard to the issues of preserving the environment where they are inserted. We support the need, expressed in a very fair way in this petition, for definitive measures to be taken that combat this pollution and contribute to improving the quality of life of the population in the region, as well as to ensure a human and ecologically balanced environment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u205	Mrs. Members, we are now moving to the fifth item on the agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 119 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In defense of the exercise of the engineering profession ( Ricardo David Lopes León and others) together with the projects of lein. 495 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work, which is not subject to special legislation, and the duties applicable to them and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February ( PSD ), 576 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work and the duties applicable to them and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February, ensuring the correct transposition of Directive 2005 / 36 / EC(PAN) and 577 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the management of works, amending the standard concerning the qualification of project authors ( PAN) ( the title and the initial text were replaced by the author ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u206	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u207	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u208	Mr President, it is to make a statement of conflict of interest. Whereas, under the Statute of Members, it is my duty to declare the existence of a particular interest in the legislative initiatives under consideration, for being married to an architect, I declare that I will not participate in the discussion and voting of these initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. To present the PSD's legislative initiative, Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Start this speech by greeting the petitioners, because they have exercised a healthy democratic exercise that I want to highlight and register. The PSD Parliamentary Group presents this bill with the dual objective of restoring justice and equality. We cannot be insensitive to an entire legislative journey of decades, which has ensured the recognition of new trainings and new professions. What brings us here today is the recognition that something has not been clear and causes inequality and injustice. Since the first transposition of the 1985 Community Directive which was expressed that the civil engineering graduates of the universities of Coimbra, Porto, Minho and the Technical Higher Institute had a specific recognition. More: in recent amendments to legislation a time limit was created, i.e. these four graduates, started until the academic year 1987 / 1988, allow the exercise in certain areas of the architecture, and only for these situations that we present this bill. We have seen and heard many things, many concerns that go beyond the scope of this bill. There is no intention, nor parliamentary initiatives that can confirm these fears. We are talking about four specific degrees and a very clear time limit. The rest are fears and extemporaneous statements, which we do not follow. We cannot accept or agree that there are different interpretations with enormous consequences in people's lives. There are municipalities that accept projects of these professionals, others do not. They may exercise their profession in the European area, but not in Portugal. European citizens with similar training and recognised by the same Community directives can work in Portugal and not Portuguese. Now, this is incomprehensible and unacceptable. We therefore welcome the recommendation of the Ombudsman and agree with the content of the correspondence between the Government and the European Commission. We present this convincing bill that we are restoring justice and guaranteeing equality, which are at issue. We hope this surgical intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u211	'Surgical intervention'? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u212	... host the other parliamentary groups, so that the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the recommendations of the Ombudsman and is the guarantor of justice and equality, as those who have elected us expect. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u213	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: Today, the NAP brings to debate two bills aimed at safeguarding acquired rights. The first allows civil engineers, with training qualifications obtained in Portugal, with training started at the latest during the academic year 1987 / 1988, licensed by the University of Porto, Coimbra, the Mininho and the Technical University of Lisbon, to develop and subscribe architectural projects. thus, we ensure that Portugal ceases to violate Community law, preventing the situations of discrimination that are taking place, as is the possibility of foreign civil engineers to develop and subscribe architectural projects in Portugal and civil engineers with training in Portugal, under the conditions already mentioned, can elaborate and subscribe those projects abroad, but being prevented from doing so in Portugal. Such an understanding was even assumed by the Ombudsman. The second draft law allows the technical agents of architecture and engineering to assume the functions of management and supervision of work in Class 4 or lower works, which has been removed from them in an unjustified way. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in short, even though we agree with the content of Law No 31/2009, we cannot accept that it did not properly safeguard the legitimate rights of the professionals concerned, which we intend to guard against these proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u215	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by greeting all the citizens who have addressed this petition to the Assembly of the Republic. This petition has a very clear and concrete scope. This is the situation of a group of professionals of a given generation, the civil engineers enrolled until 1986 in the four engineering schools already mentioned here, who could practice acts of restricted architecture in a framework of qualifications recognised by the Portuguese State. It is important to make it clear that not all engineers, not all civil engineers, not all architectural acts are involved. It should be remembered that this problem stems from a process that has been dragging for years and that the CFP position has always been clear, coherent and transparent from the outset. The truth is that if the problem still remains is because the PCP alerts made in due time have not been considered. We are making this discussion today because the problem has not been solved and it has not also been resolved for the technical agents of architecture and engineering, whose situation cannot be forgotten or ignored. Moreover, because it is also relevant to today's petition, we want to remember the debate on May 18, 2006 when we stated, and I quote: «We cannot ignore that there are today professionals to whom they were created, by the State itself, legitimate expectations of exercise of a profession. Some of these professionals have been active for more than 30 years, so it is important to find a legislative solution that takes into account this scenario. Sacrificing, by legislative means, the professional life of a significant number of people cannot and should not be the solution". Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has always expressed and reaffirms today the total availability and collaboration to find the appropriate legislative solutions, looking fairly at the different realities, the different professionals involved and the different interests concerned. at the end of the process that gave rise to Law No 31 / 2009, the CFP was the only party that abstained in the overall final vote and claimed, in a declaration of vote, that it could not, by amendment of a diploma, prevent signing a project that throughout life worked in a legal framework in which it could do so. At the time we were talking about ATAE (technical agents of architecture and engineering). A concrete response could have been given to the problems identified in this area, both for the technical engineering and architecture agents, and for the civil engineers concerned, but at the time it was unfeasible by the policy option of PS, PS, and CDS-PP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this discussion cannot be seen as a war of trenches between opposite interests, nor can the legislative process be transformed into a corporate conflict, putting professional groups and workers against each other. The CFP has rejected this path from the very first moment, denouncing this attitude. We always recognize the merit and fairness of the principles stated in the slogan « Architecture, a citizen's right, an act of architects' own ». We have always affirmed our agreement with this view of the right to architecture, it itself is indissociable from the right to city, its appreciation and democratization, of the rights to housing and urbanism, to the environment and quality of life, enshrined in the Constitution, and these issues cannot be remembered only when we are having these discussions about who can or cannot sign projects. The CFP defends and the country needs a legal framework that sets that path to the future, which is unanimously accepted. But the CFP does not defend or admit that this exception can be extended or extended. It is necessary to define a regime which relates to this specific group, to that defined generation, which does not impose new rules and does not extend to other areas. unlike the PSD, which today presents a proposal that withdrew when it was mostly, the PCP maintains and reaffirms its position of always. There is good sense and serenity to work together, with a view to fair and appropriate legislation. For that, they count on us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u217	The next intervention is by Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the petitioners, as well as all those who have spoken and participated in the process of discussing this petition and the legislative projects in question, and in particular comply with all the members of the professional orders here present. This is a matter of the greatest importance, which has direct implications for many people, but also for all of us, insofar as what is at stake also concerns all of us and is also in the public interest. And because this interest is high, it was attended by committed participation of several citizens and, in particular, the different structures of the professional orders involved. It is not too much to highlight this contribution: we are in the House of Democracy, we are here as representatives of the people, but in a matter like this, we have an obligation to involve all professional orders, and that is what happened. Sometimes when the discussion is high it is important to affirm what unites us, more than what separates us. The CDS believes that it was an important advance that occurred when the legislator established which architectural acts to be exercised by architects and engineering acts to be practiced by engineers. We don't want to override this advance. We don't want to delay this aspiration. The CDS does not follow any legislative proposal that promotes postponement and much less the cancellation of this requirement. The legislator has also established a transitional period which has allowed everyone to prepare and qualify for the new requirements laid down in this matter. This option was consensual in this House. It follows, however, that Portuguese legislation may not have fully guarded the rights acquired by a small group of engineers. According to the wording of the Directive adopted in 2005, at a time when in Portugal the Government was of the Socialist Party, engineers who started graduation at the four Portuguese universities until 1987 / 1988 may sign architectural projects in any country of the European Union. The circumstances of being able to do in any country of the European Union and not be able to do so in Portugal are considered as an attack particularly on the principle of equality by the Ombudsman. We are talking only about the engineers who started their course 30 years ago at four Portuguese universities. The CDS-PP does not weigh or consider it desirable to extend this discussion beyond this restricted core and, either well or ill, enshrined in that Directive. In our view, this issue would have recommended a greater commitment on the part of the Government to ensure that a matter of this nature does not constitute a division factor between professions and professional organizations that, essentially, have interests and have had convergent actions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u219	But you've passed the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u220	We therefore hope that this matter will evolve in the field of expertise, seeking to define the scope of the discussion and bring the various interests in question closer to and reconcile. I conclude by saying that on the part of the CDS-PP we affirm what is essential to us: to promote and deepen the specific and complementary value that each profession represents in the urban process; to strengthen the commitment among all the protagonists, seeking to exhaust the protection of the specific interests of the people involved; and, finally, to fully respect national law and commitments before the European institutions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u221	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also begin by greeting the petitioners and, in fact, by noting that the matter which today brings to the resolution of a question which, far from representing a review of a subject on which the principles are well signed since 2009, implies recognizing the need to correct and ensure that our legislation is fully compatible with the dictates of European Union law. What is at stake and what is discussed today is not to reverse a clear option of the 2009 legislator, who clearly set out which acts of each profession, who can perform them and under what conditions, but rather to ascertain the justice of the transitional regime then established and define, in order to safeguard the necessary protection of trust, what should be the regime to give to people whose professional life has also been entitled to acquire knowledge in four well-defined higher education institutions—and which therefore represent a closed universe of people. It is therefore necessary to ensure the protection of trust when doubts remain regarding the applicable regime. Indeed, the legislation we have is insufficiently clear in order to give proper answers. The outcome of the Directive and the Community framework points to a particular sense of recognition of qualifications, both in its original version and in its revised version, and in fact the reality of other countries of the European Union is very revealing of this framework: those who have similar qualifications can exercise activity in Portugal, even when they are citizens of other countries, and the reverse is also true, Portuguese citizens recognised in the Annex to the Directive can also perform the same functions in other countries of the European Union. The current legislation, Law No. 31/2009 in its most recent version, itself, does not prevail for clarity, in that simultaneously ensures the protection of acquired rights, but at some points appears to say the opposite. In the face of remaining doubts, the legislator must create a framework that is unequivocal and that gives assurance and security to all agents and to all those who work daily in the sector. The bills currently under discussion, concerning this petition, presented by the PSD and the NAP, walk in this sense of recognition of the singularity and of the attempt to solve a point problem that does not cover the whole theme, far from that. Nevertheless, for us, it is still not clear enough in all its aspects to allow us to follow up with the favourable vote, but we are clearly available to be able to cooperate, in the field of expertise, in order to achieve answers to some of the questions that still raise doubts, in particular, what role the Order of Architects should play in ensuring compliance with the rules governing the profession and those which they perform and, indeed, practice architectural acts, which must also be framed in the way in which legislation is built. We are therefore available: available to build a balanced solution, which protects confidence, which goes against what the Ombudsman said, which meets the conclusions of Community case law, on the one hand, but which also keeps clear as water the principle set out in 2009 for the future, marking well, clearly, what are the situations in which certain people can sign architectural projects and in which certain people can perform the profession of engineer, maintaining them, effectively, well-identified. We are available to, with this, ensure the quality of all those who intervene in the construction of the city from day to day, allowing the convivial and constructive character—maybe the word 'constructive' is the most appropriate to use in this debate—of all the professions that have interference here and which deal with the issue daily. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u223	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the set of petitioners who have decided to bring to the Assembly of the Republic a matter which was born of the activity of the Assembly of the Republic. This debate — in historical memory, I must say that — has already had some rather animated versions from a social point of view, but on which the path was clear. The Left Block voted in favour of Law No. 31 / 2009, where the precept is formulated that the engineering acts must be made by engineers and the architecture acts must be made by architects and we keep ourselves faithful to that precept, hence our vote in favour of Law No. 31 / 2009 and the maintenance of that idea. That is not the debate we are having in this context. The opinion presented by the Ombudsman to us for debate and action sets out two legal principles: firstly, the debate on acquired rights, and, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, these rights of these civil engineers who started their course in the four higher education establishments referred to until the 1987/88 school year were previously protected by law and an indication was given to the European bodies of this safeguard of rights; and, secondly, the requirement that rights in the European area should be exercised, irrespective of the country where the citizen or the citizen is, and that equality in rights should in fact be a requirement of national law. This opinion of the Ombudsman then points to a lack of clarity of the law. We therefore intend and we have already made it clear to the PSD Parliamentary Group that the debate in the field of expertise goes beyond the proposal that is presented to us. It is that the proposal that is presented to us is not only and is merely responding to the opinion of the Ombudsman: on the one hand, because the acquired rights are in relation to Decree No 73 / 73 and not to the current Act, which is less limited than the actions of the engineers in the PSD proposal than was in Decree No 73 / 73 ; on the other hand, because the current Law says that the acts of architecture have an assessment competence and a code of ethics that is applied and ensured by the performance of the Order of Architects. These two aspects are not adequately assured in the PSD proposal and we believe that this is the fundamental problem. What the Ombudsman says is different from what the PSD proposes and we believe that there should be an opening in the field of expertise to reach a consensus text that is not a war text between professional classes, that guarantees a definitive resolution of legislative problems and that it ensures that the principle that we had preserved in 2009 of separation of orders, separation of specialized acts between engineering and between architecture is, in fact, the precept that remains valid national legislation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u225	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u226	Mr President, I would like to thank the debate, the contributions that have been made. To be very clear, what the PSD proposes is what I have already said in the presentation of the project: to intervene in these four graduates until the academic years 1986 / 1987 / 1988. This is solving the problem that has been well identified by Mr. Provider. If there are parliamentary groups that understand that our formulation does not fully correspond to this, then they help, contributing to the improvement of the wording. But there is one thing that must be clear: we will not take advantage of this consensus so that then, in the field of specialty, if you dilate and stay in the same, I don't know why. What is important is to solve, is to take advantage of this moment to solve something that has not been well since 2009, in this very specific and very limited context. For that, yes, it would be important for everyone to cooperate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u227	Mrs. Members, before closing the discussion of petition No 119 / XIII ( 1. a ), together with the projects of lein 495, 576 and 577 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) asked the Bureau Mr Jorge Falcato, of the Left Block, to express a declaration of conflict of interest. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to tell the House that I have an interest in this subject, given my professional activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u229	It is duly registered, Mr. Mrs. Members, we therefore move to the sixth item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of petition No 247 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Calls for the simplification of electoral laws in respect of the exercise of voting rights by Portuguese residents abroad ( We Are Also Portuguese ). There is a reasonably unusual fact, which is that of the Bureau not registering any Member to speak on this point. [[Pause.]] Mr Paulo Pisco of the Socialist Party was signed up for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a topic of greater relevance to Portugal and also to our communities, which is the need to improve the conditions for the exercise of the right to vote by Portuguese residents abroad. We therefore welcome the citizens linked to the movement We are also Portuguese and all petitioners for bringing to the Assembly of the Republic such a relevant matter and presenting a set of absolutely relevant suggestions and repairs so that it is easier to vote and for the number of voters to be much higher. This is undeniably a common concern of both the parliamentary groups and the government, both the Portuguese residents abroad, even because our communities scattered around the world have an increasingly influential role in the country, but paradoxically, they have an increasingly reduced participation in electoral acts, a situation that is urgent to reverse. However, in addition to the imperative need to facilitate and improve the exercise of the vote, it is also necessary to ensure the truth, rigor and transparency of electoral acts and their results. The truth is, unfortunately for voters abroad, there are no perfect voting systems. All have advantages and disadvantages: the presence vote is the most true and transparent, but significantly decreases participation; the correspondence vote allows greater participation, but is more vulnerable to fraud and the waste of votes; the electronic vote is the most comfortable and with greater potential for participation, but has serious fragility to the level of security, leading even to its abandonment by some countries, as recently happened in the elections in France. On the other hand, all three systems have difficulties that should not be ignored: the face-to-face vote makes it more difficult for citizens living away from consular posts; the correspondence vote presents great limitations in countries where mails work badly; and electronic voting, in turn, excludes everyone who does not have computers or does not have computer skills. This means choosing that or those voting systems that give more guarantees for the participation of voters and more transparent and rigorous results, which is currently being discussed in Parliament and in the government. in this context, we should welcome the government's decision to implement the automatic census based on the dwellings abroad contained in the citizen's card, which will operate a real revolution in the number of voters in the electoral notebooks in the circles of emigration, which pass from today around 300,000 to more than 1 million. It is hoped that, in this way, the number of votes in absolute terms will increase considerably, regardless of future voting systems. As the PS Electoral and Government Programme states, we are fully committed to doing everything to increase electoral participation abroad. We consider it relevant, including, to have a pilot experience with online electronic voting, but it would be desirable that it be extended abroad and not only limited to Portugal. But we also want to emphasise — and I would point out this — that the Socialist Party will always be against easy solutions that distort the truth of the election results or perpetuate the lack of rigour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u231	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u232	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the authors of the petition, «We are also Portuguese», and thank them from now on for taking this initiative which addresses a matter which we consider fundamental and priority for our communities and Portugal, which is civic and political participation. This petition begins by defending the facilitation of the electoral census process and suggests that it be done automatically, in the image of what is happening in national territory, which has already been discussed in this Parliament and which seems to merit the consensus of this House ; I repeat: it seems! however, the petitioners also point to the question of changing the voting method as another great design to be achieved, even pointing to the possibility of introducing the electronic vote, more precisely the online electronic vote. If, on the one hand, there seems to be a consensus on the amendments to be made in the law of the electoral census, in particular the question of automatic censusing, with regard to electoral laws and, in particular, the method of voting, only the PSD, only the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party had the opportunity to present legislative initiatives to that effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u234	In fact, we cannot ignore that, if the amendments to the electoral census are approved, we can have an electoral universe in the circles of emigration around the million and a half voters, which obliges us all, Mr President. Members, to find appropriate solutions to ensure the participation of all these Portuguese people, to avoid levels of abstention which, in the future, may reveal historical and, if they do, will embarrass us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u236	That is, as the people say, we are on one side and also withdrawing from the other. Well, this can't happen! We therefore reiterate that we are in favour of the uniformization of the voting method, that we defend the link between the postal vote and the face-to-face vote and that we also point out, in our proposal, a path that may allow, in future, the realization of the electronic vote, also defended by the petitioners. It should be borne in mind that this is the second petition which has entered the Assembly of the Republic, which comes from the Portuguese communities, and which deals with electoral issues, namely the method of voting in the circles of emigration. This is, then, ladies and gentlemen. Members, another sign of the importance that Portuguese residents abroad give to political participation in their country, which contradicts the speeches of some who recently in this Chamber have dug up arguments from the past, defending again that our emigrants, in order to exercise their political rights, have before proving their connection to Portugal, very difficult arguments to accept, in a country that must be seen in their communities and in a country that must understand them as an integral part of the whole national. The petitioners, in defending these amendments, do so, as is evident, on their behalf, but also do so on behalf of all Portuguese who reside in the electoral circles of emigration, and do so with a single objective, that is to say to this House, to all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, they are also Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u237	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First, I should like to welcome the petitioners, who, with this initiative, call on us all to seek the best solutions for the democratic deepening of political participation on an equal footing for all Portuguese and Portuguese, regardless of the country in which they live. The petition discussed here today says everything in its title: “We are also Portuguese”. What these citizens are asking for is nothing more than the fulfilment of democracy and the right to equal treatment in political participation in their country. Indeed, we know that today the right to vote is not guaranteed equally to Portuguese citizens living in Portugal and to those living in other countries abroad. For citizens living abroad, the census is optional and face-to-face, which obviously brings great inconveniences, both in travel costs, as well as in their personal and family lives, to do something that, for the Portuguese, for voters living in the country, is done automatically. in the same way, Portuguese citizens who reside abroad pay to vote every time they vote by mail, having to cost the value of sending the vote by mail, which obviously puts these voters at a clear disadvantage in relation to citizens residing in Portugal. The exercise of democracy, the consecration of equality among all Portuguese and Portuguese, the fight against abstention and the promotion of political participation are also the reason why the Left Block has already presented two bills that go in the direction of what is claimed in this petition. One of them proposes the free postal vote for Portuguese voters living abroad and stresses that this improvement of voting by correspondence does not conflict, also with possible electronic voting solutions, which are, in fact, being studied and whose technical study is currently under way here in the Assembly of the Republic. The other project of the Left Block proposes that the electoral census be informal, compulsory, permanent and unique for all elections by universal and direct suffrage and referendums. The process thus becomes the same that is used for Portuguese citizens residing in Portugal, i.e. by updating the address indicated in the Citizen's Card and therefore automatic. It is also envisaged, in this draft of the Left Block, that Portuguese voters living abroad choose to vote in the Members of the country of residence for the European Parliament, in which case they must express their will by means of a formal declaration. The Left Bloc considers that, in this way, equal treatment is promoted and national cohesion is guaranteed, and we therefore welcome once again the petitioners for this initiative, saying that the Left Bloc obviously accompanies these concerns and demands. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u239	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word that, obviously, I want to leave here is thanks and gratitude to the petitioners for their work and the way they take Portugal further, abroad, and in them greet all Portuguese immigrants who deserve the fair recognition of the Assembly of the Republic. All our emigrants help build a better country and have taken our country and culture further, helping Portugal to develop. I also want to leave the people of the gentlemen here. Petitioners, a particular word of solidarity to the Portuguese who have suffered in the hands of totalitarian regimes, as is the case, for example, of Venezuela,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u242	... that they deny democracy and...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u243	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u244	...that endanger the lives of thousands and thousands of Portuguese people who are forced to leave everything behind, undoing a lifetime of work. This is a worrying situation, which the CDS has been accompanying and which will not fail to monitor and pay special attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u245	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u246	That said, I want to focus, of course, on the initiative and, just as I have had the opportunity to speak personally to the promoters of this initiative, it is the living proof that, despite the recognized example of integration of Portuguese communities in the countries to which they emigrate, the truth is that these Portuguese do not turn away from the conduct of the destinations of their country of origin, do not turn away from it and continue to want to have an active voice. That's good, it's to stand up and recognize here too. But this participation will only be as much as possible as we remove obstacles to it. And we are aware that there are huge obstacles to this electoral participation of Portuguese residents abroad. For this reason, in relation to the initiatives we have discussed before, at another time, the CDS gave its generic consent and expressed its agreement. The CDS also said so—and so did you personally. Petitioners—that electronic voting is, as far as possible, but only when all the conditions of reliability and credibility in the system are guaranteed. And at the moment, we have several reports that reliability is not yet fully assured. It is sufficient, moreover, to see the examples of Germany, the Netherlands or the United States, which have retreated in their intentions of electronic voting, and therefore we know that this process should be seen with caution, without precipitation and done with the greatest of serenity. Mr President, I conclude by saying that we all know how critical the participation of citizens in the electoral process is, and there is nothing worse than creating entropies in a process that may be more harmful than helping, and therefore the CDS will not fail to pay attention to the issue and will check, when the appropriate time for the electronic vote is introduced, whether all the conditions of reliability and credibility of the system are ensured. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u247	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has already had the opportunity to make its position clear on the issues raised in this petition, complimenting its subscribers and our compatriots living abroad, but we refuse to make demagogy at its expense. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u249	The CFP agrees with the initiatives taken to facilitate the exercise of the voting rights of our compatriots living abroad and to facilitate the registration of these citizens in the electoral census, and may use the citizens' card database for this purpose. The CFP does not object to the possibility that, in the event of renewal of the Citizen's Card in which there is a residence abroad, there will be the possibility of considering the registration abroad without more bureaucracy, provided that that is the will of the citizen concerned. The PCP also does not completely refuse the possibility of registration to be carried out on the Internet. The problems arising from the automatic nature of the census abroad, without a manifestation of the citizen's will in this sense, are essentially confronted with constitutional problems, with regard to the right to vote in the presidential elections, i.e., if the census becomes automatic, on the basis of constitutional authorization for the right to vote in the presidential elections, which was precisely based on the voluntary nature of the census abroad. The CFP therefore considers that the foreign census should be facilitated but cannot provide a demonstration of will on the part of citizens living abroad who allow them one of three options: not to be registered abroad by choice; to be registered in their consular area abroad; or to maintain the census in national territory, if they stay here. In this regard, it is important to remember that a citizen who has his or her registration transferred to the foreign country loses the right to vote in the elections. If you reside in national territory and have an interest in exercising your right to vote in Portugal, you should be able to do so, and automatic registration obviously prevents that possibility. On the other hand, according to the law of the country of residence, a citizen exercising political rights in Portugal may lose this right in the host country and this would be another undesirable consequence of the automatic, very serious, and that cannot be avoided. The citizen must be able to exclude the registration abroad and maintain the right to the National Citizenship Card. In short, the inclusion of citizens in the electoral census abroad should be facilitated, but this cannot be done at the cost of violating constitutional requirements and creating undesirable effects, which may even be detrimental to the rights of migrants themselves in the host countries. The foreign census cannot, therefore, dispense a demonstration of will on the part of the citizens themselves. The CFP considers that the number of posts in which it is possible to register and request the issue of the Citizenship Card abroad should be increased, as well as advocates that, without prejudice to the necessary supervision of the electoral act, the number of voting venues should be extended to ensure greater accessibility to the exercise of the right to vote. in the legislative elections in which the vote is maintained by correspondence, the CFP agrees that the costs of the postal dispatch must be ensured by the State rather than by the voters, taking into account the principle of free exercise of the right to vote. Finally, Mr President, the CFP rejects the possibility of non-existent electronic voting, i.e. on the Internet, due to the impossibility of guaranteeing the personality, lack of cohesion and the reliable nature of the vote carried out under these conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u251	It should be stressed, however, that no initiative has been presented in the Assembly of the Republic in this regard, with the unanimity of all parties...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u252	Unanimity? Oh, my God! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u253	... in the rejection of this possibility, precisely for the reasons referred to above. Any idea that is widespread that this possibility will be studied in Portugal or that it has the support of some political force in the Assembly of the Republic, this does not correspond to the truth and can only serve to create false illusions and mistify the real positioning of the different party forces on this issue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u254	Mrs. Members, the assessment of petition No 247 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), we turn to point 7 of our agenda, which is part of the joint debate on petition 207 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Requests that the first pilot-experiences in integrated mental health care be released budgeted, formally released and inaugurated to support people who are in a disadvantaged position for reasons related to mental illness ( FamilyMente — Portuguese Federation of Associations of Families of People with Mental Disease Experience ) and draft resolutions 989 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen responses to mental health ( PSD ) and 1004 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthening of SNS responses in the area of mental health in Portugal ( PCP ). For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Angela Guerra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has one of the highest prevalence of psychiatric diseases in Europe, admitting that more than one fifth of Portuguese may suffer from some psychiatric disorder. It is also estimated that 15% of all people in need of mental health care have access to them. This is therefore a serious problem that affects many Portuguese families and has serious consequences for the quality of life of thousands of citizens. But despite the laws, programs and plans that have been approved in our country over the past few decades, we all recognize that mental health is still a poor relative in the context of health policies and that much, even much, still needs to be done. This same has been said to us by citizens who, in good time, have submitted petition 207 / XIII to the Assembly when they have recognized that "Portuguese mental health has gone through the last decades very troubled and very painful moments for people with mental illness and their family members and/or informal caregivers." This petition was promoted by the FamilyMente, the Portuguese Federation of Associations of Families of People with Mental Disease Experience, which I congratulate on the initiative under discussion and, through it, the more than 6000 citizens who addressed us, who have come here massively and who are in the galleries among us. What these petitioners want is, in essence, that the Government fulfills a promise that it has made over a year, in order to open about 350 places of continued mental health care. Indeed, who does not remember the current Minister of Health stated in Parliament on April 6, 2016 that this year would still open 328 places for mental health care? Oh, my God! Over a year, in practice, none of the promised places were opened. from then that the petitioners' request has unfortunately a cause, and that cause is called lack of investment. Continued mental health care is a clear example of this disinvestment in the area of health. In July 2015, the former Government approved an order to authorize the hiring of about 300 specific places for users in the mental health area. Two years passed and, as you mentioned, it didn't open any. The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party therefore presents a draft resolution recommending that the Government strengthen responses to mental health. We therefore propose not only the immediate opening of the promised places of continuous mental health care but also the strengthening of primary and hospital care in this area, the increase of resources and the improvement of the reference of patients, as well as the better integration of mental health care, among other issues. We also demand the approval of the status of the informal caregiver, a fundamental measure in the context of mental health, approved by the Assembly of the Republic, also for another year, and so far not yet complied with by the Government. With this initiative, what the PSD wants is therefore to give visibility to a legitimate claim by many citizens and their families. There are enough announcements, promises, working groups, studies and evaluation reports. There is now and definitely the government's will. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u256	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, I begin by congratulating the FamilyMente, who has promoted this petition, and the 5000 petitioners who, in a very clear way, identify that pilot experiences in continued integrated mental health care are finally released budgetaryly and formally released and inaugurated to support people who are at a disadvantage for reasons related to mental illness. But the petitioners are also very clear in identifying a part of the root of this problem and say that six years have been waiting for further answers in this matter. Mrs.Angela Guerra, from the PSD, ended up talking in two years, forgetting that more years behind these two, in which you need answers to mental health. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u258	So why haven't you done anything in these two years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u259	Mental health has been the target of the parliamentary intervention of the CFP, here in the Assembly of the Republic, which never ceases to put the problems and make the proposals necessary for its resolution. The PCP understands that mental health issues are, from the perspective of professionals and their high shortage, serious problems in this area and that specialties such as pedopsychiatry or gerontopsychiatry are evidence of this. Then, the insufficiency of professionals in the social area, whether social workers or psychologists, also makes a fundamental contribution to making this problem worse. It understands the CFP that contribute to mental health problems the weakness of responses and, for this weakness of mental health responses, the policies of impoverishment and exploitation carried out by successive governments, and that the former Government, PSD / CDS, was the maximum exponent. Then, the underfinancing of the National Health Service and the de-investment also place serious concerns in this area. The CFP understands, as proposals for mental health, that it is necessary to make a serious and effective investment in prevention, treatment and rehabilitation; it believes that the response should be made preferably by the health sector, particularly by the National Health Service. We understand that it is necessary to require services that have professionals with specific training in these areas, and I have just mentioned the issue of gerontopsychiatry and pedopsychiatry. Better responses are needed to patients and their families; social, economic and community responses. Greater investment is needed in the area of community health, and these services must be linked with hospital services and primary health care. It is necessary to know better the reality of mental health and, for this reason, it is necessary to carry out planned studies to characterize the living conditions of patients suffering from mental disorders and their families and a plan to monitor the consequences of impoverishment, unemployment and work insecurity, at the level of psychiatry and mental health. Such measures are joint measures with other ministries and public bodies, which need to improve responses to patients, families and caregivers of mentally disturbed patients. Mr President, to conclude, there are a set of proposals presented by the CFP in the draft resolution and, in addition to these proposals, the CFP has had the willingness to propose and vote through the State budgets solutions to the problems of the National Health Service and the patients and that is the commitment that the CFP continues to make to these patients. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u260	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by complimenting the petitioners and, above all, by thanking them for their work and for their inspired and inspiring example of citizenship and service to the common good. The CDS welcomes the fact that your association integrates the National Health Council and obviously looks forward to the best results of this contribution. As has already been said, this is an area of greatest relevance and, unfortunately, a poor relative of the Portuguese health system. In fact, a poor relative in the approach to health problems by society itself, which undermines this issue, which conceals it and surrounds it with prejudice. The CDS has been following your concerns for a long time and has made proposals in these areas, in particular in support of caregivers, in support of people with dementia and pedopsychiatry. We agree that it is necessary to take concrete measures, and in due course, and it is up to the government to do so almost two years ago. We do not accept, in any way, misleading promises that have been accumulated and that in an illusory way attempt to respond to these pressing needs. Enough promises! In the context of the needs of such a vulnerable and deprived group, which is a reality that has such delicate consequences for families and for themselves, we believe that this government should take effective measures aimed at strengthening mental health services in our country, taking into account some aspects for us undisturbed: ensuring the proper allocation of human resources in this area; improving the reference processes between different levels of care; reducing waiting times for access to these services; improving social support and support for caregivers. We reiterate that action should be taken and that an effective priority should be established for dementia, support for caregivers and the pedopsychiatry area, which we know is currently going through a very difficult situation and lacks means. We will obviously accompany the two projects presented here and I cannot fail to thank the commitment, example and resilience of the FamilyMente, wishing that they can continue to fight for the rights of people with mental health and their caregivers in our country. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u262	Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the more than 6000 petitioners and, in particular, the FamilyMente, who provided this petition. This is a petition that claims, as has already been said, the entry into operation of pilot units for the provision of continuous integrated mental health care. That's a fair claim. It is known that, in January this year, a government office has already authorized expenditure to conclude 25 programme contracts in this respect. however, we cannot fail to consider this answer insufficient. First, because these pilot projects are not yet in operation and should be. Second, because even this office, with that number of projects that identify, is insufficient for the needs that exist in the country. Thirdly, because it is also essential to increase public response, and not only program contracts, with conventional entities; it is fundamental, I repeat, to increase this public response and that does not exist in the order we are talking about. Fourth, because mental health is not exhausted by this measure alone. In fact, health problems are not solved only by strict measures in the area of health and there are, as all of us know, health determinants that are the same, determine the quality of health and disease in people. In the area of mental health, there are no exceptions to this aspect. Issues such as quality of life, issues such as socioeconomic factors are determinants, very serious and very strong in mental health. from this point of view, the period we go through of austerity, unemployment, precariousness, impoverishment, worsened these determinants and worsened the mental health of people. And, therefore, it is also necessary to intervene here, ensuring stable employment relationships, ensuring better wages, guaranteed better socio-economic situations, but also, let's be honest, discussing strictly health measures to address mental health issues. Mental health has been treated by successive governments, without exception, as little more than a verb-to-fill. All show concern, but few measures are effectively applied. More than 20 % of the population lives with mental illness, there is almost an absolute absence of psychologists in the National Health Service, particularly in primary health care, there is a huge difficulty in access by users to mental health care, there is a huge difficulty in providing care either in the outpatient clinic or in hospitalization. Therefore, we follow, of course, the petitioners' claim and join these other claims, such as the increase in funding in the National Health Service and the increase in public responses across health policies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u264	For an intervention, Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A society that is interested and participates is a more informed society and therefore freer. That is precisely why I greet the subscribers and the FamilyMente organization as the driving force behind the petition in debate and declare recognition to all those who mobilize for reasons they have as fair. The object of the petition is mental health and the objective, at the time that this petition was entered, i.e. at the end of 2016, was to carry out the budgetary expression regarding pilot experiences in continuous mental health care in order to give them concreteization. The decree that created integrated mental health care units and teams dates back to 2010, 2011 being the height at which the units' coordinations and teams were established. The PSD/CDS government, as in many other aspects of the health area, ignored the work already done and simply did not carry out any measures, a situation that makes the recent draft resolution submitted by the PSD a clear act of contribution, after four years without having done strictly nothing in the area of mental health. Let us be clear, because that is what people expect of us: it is not wrong to say that mental health has been secondaryized. Aware that mental health care has gone through a difficult period of unacceptable drag, the current government has sought, through relatively recent diplomas, to give new impetus to this area, authorizing regional health administrations to undertake multi-year commitments under the programme contracts concluded with the integrated entities or to integrate the National Network of Continued Care Integrated in the specific area of mental health, a measure covering about 366 places in the community in 25 entities. So far, 20 contracts have been concluded and the other contracts are at the final stage of approval. According to the plan, this pilot phase — and that is what we are dealing with — will last for one year, after which due assessment will be carried out, to the necessary corrections, thus triggering the expansion phase of the necessary response. Exactly as the Ministry of Health says, this response, as recommended by the World Health Organization, focuses on psychosocial rehabilitation, in a process that aims to create conditions so that people with moderate or severe mental illness can achieve an optimal level of independent functioning and be inserted into their community. thus, the continuous integrated mental health care aims to strengthen the skills, rehabilitation, recovery and social integration of the people with psychosocial dependence referred to, as well as the promotion and strengthening of the capacities of families dealing with these situations, aspects that are of particular interest. It is correct to say that we are talking about a very large step in a clearly civilizational process, in which the advance of pilot experiments was fundamental and will have our commitment to consolidate and expand, of course, still in this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u266	Mrs. Members, the assessment of petition No 207 / XIII ( 2 ) is completed. ( a ) and draft resolutions Nos 989 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD ) and 1004 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ). We will move to the eighth point of our order of business, which consists in the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 570 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish a set of urgent measures to support the victims of large pedrogon forest fires and to strengthen fire prevention and combat ( PCP ), 572 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the assumption by the State of responsibility to compensate the heirs of the fatal victims and the serious injuries following the fire of Pedrógão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertan, between 17 and 24 June 2017, and creates the procedure for determining and paying such compensation ( PSD ) and 573/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs a committee for the rehabilitation of victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017 and regulates the payment of compensation to victims of these fires as well as to their heirs ( CDS-PP ). Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: following the tragedy of last June's fires, the possibility was raised to move forward with a legislative process that would quickly enable mechanisms to support victims, compensation, compensation for damage suffered and also to strengthen measures to prevent and combat fires. The PCP presented a bill with this objective and encouraged, in the working group on forest fires, to develop the discussion necessary for the rapid approval of this law. The PSD and the CDS also presented bills that were considered in this legislative process and, although there were no proposals from any other parliamentary group, it was possible to find a consensus text, a text that replaces the three bills submitted by the various parliamentary groups, to be voted today in general, in specialty and in global final vote. Obviously, this possibility will only be achieved by consensus on the part of all parliamentary groups with a view to the adoption of this single text in the three types of vote to be held today. Obviously the replacement text does not fully reflect the proposals of the CFP, but we are convinced that today it is possible to adopt this unique text in the three types of vote, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote. We hope that the various parliamentary groups will contribute to the consensus needed for this vote to take place, because it is important that there is a law that includes not only measures relating to victim support but also measures relating to compensation, compensation for damage, in particular in terms of restoring economic activity, restoring housing and supporting health. Measures specifically aimed at victims and at strengthening the prevention and fight against forest fires should be taken. We are convinced that today it is possible to approve the single text, guaranteeing the victims of the fires of last June 17 some support through the Assembly of the Republic, with a consensus for the unanimous approval of this initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u268	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is customary to say that it is in times of difficulty that the character of the people is seen. With the necessary adaptations, I believe that this same premise and this same reasoning can be applied to organisations, institutions and particularly to political parties in Portugal. A month ago, we had a situation of great dramatism, a tragedy never seen. It is up to the political power, in all its meanings, to meet the answers necessary to restore normality and to make the due reparations to those who have seen their lives tragically affected by the events of Pedrogão Grande and Castanheira de Pera, to be in consonance of efforts and in union of purposes in what is necessary to do. in this sense, the PSD Parliamentary Group presented a bill that creates an extrajudicial mechanism to support the heirs of the deceased and the serious wounded in this tragedy. We therefore presented a bill aimed at creating a set of measures to support and restore normality in the lives of those municipalities affected and then also the Portuguese Communist Party and the Social Democratic Center presented legislative initiatives in the same sense. Today, these three parties have reached an agreement for a single text. Thus, at this moment, the Portuguese Parliament, if it takes the good will of the representatives of all parties, will be able to vote on a single text which will be signed by the PSD, the Portuguese Communist Party and the CDS, in order to give due recognition to the dead, the heirs of the dead and the grave wounded, to rebuild that territory which has been so badly affected and to show, once and for all, that in times when the country needs political power it knows how to unite in order to defend the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u270	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u271	I will finish, Mr. President. I hope that the Portuguese Parliament, in the votes to be followed, will be able to meet this requirement, which is the requirement of a democratic society as open as ours. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u272	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said, and we reaffirm, following the tragedy of Pedragão Grande's fires, three parliamentary groups have put forward proposals to speed up the scale and consequences of the same tragedy, the victims' and victims' families can be compensated as quickly as possible, particularly through existing mechanisms and funds, both nationally and at European level. Thus, different texts were presented by the parliamentary groups of the PCP, the PSD and the CDS. After a debate — as it has been highlighted here — which has given priority to some absences, it was possible to arrive at a text of consensus between solutions that were divergent in the way to make this compensation and that were necessarily convergent in the will of this one is the most consensual and, no less important in cases like these, as fast as possible. We therefore made an effort to reach this consensus. And, even today, the Parliamentary Groups of the PCP, the CDS and the PSD have submitted a replacement of the texts as well as a requirement to allow a general vote, in the general speciality and overall end of this text, which is of consensus and which, I repeat, allows a speedy compensation to both the heirs of the fatal victims and to the victims in this tragedy of Great Pedrogon. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that this is a good example of the one who can be a consensus in the great national causes and tragedies and of the Assembly of the Republic to be consistent with the wishes of regret — that we all have made it consciously and convincingly — that it presents and is eager to remove these same consequences here. It's this call I leave here. I think it's important that it is. We will therefore advocate parliamentary and legislative work, which is to go as quickly as possible to the real tragedies that we all regret. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u274	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u275	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u276	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u277	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u278	Mr President, it is just to say that we are discussing a text that replaces the three bills that were scheduled and that, of course, is subscribed to by all other parliamentary groups. None of the subscribers will object to this and it is therefore possible to be unanimously subscribed so that they can be voted on under these conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u280	Thank you for your comment, Mr President. For an intervention, Mrs Júlia Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We reaffirm the importance that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group attaches to supporting victims. The position of this Parliament and the Government is unanimous in the importance of supporting the victims. We are available to vote in general, so that proper analysis and coordination can be made with the measures already implemented and implemented by the Government in the field of expertise. Measures in the area of health, housing, social support and also the replacement of productive potential are already on the ground. That is to say, there are already legislative initiatives in this government, which are working in the concerned councils. The Independent Technical Commission is already working and only on the basis of the results obtained is that we can establish responsibilities; and only after the responsibilities have been reached is that we can measure the possible compensation model. The discussion will have to be made on the basis of strict documents and on the basis of others which are being prepared. Before any procedure, we will have to take care of responsibilities, as all parliamentary groups will agree. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u282	To anticipate the strict knowledge of these responsibilities is not only unwise, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also demagogy. For that, don't count on us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u283	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u284	Mr President, first of all a previous note to the Bureau. There is a rule in the Rules of Procedure that any amendment in the order of business should be made by consensus. I must point out that the Bureau has changed the order of business without even contacting the Left Block Parliamentary Group, which seems to me at least to be a lack of courtesy and clearly an infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Having said this, about the content of the debate, I must say that BE knows the initial texts of the three bills, but having the replacement text was distributed 10 seconds before I began to intervene, I can't, because it really wouldn't be serious for me, to evaluate the content of it. however, I must say that the intention on the table, from our point of view, seems worthy, because it is a quick response to the damage caused by fires, to the damage done to people's lives and to repair these same damage. That is to say, a repair to what has happened obviously deserves our annuity and our follow-up, but, as we must imagine, a concrete and thorough response to the replacement text can only be done in a serious way after being properly evaluated, what we will do at the time of the vote. Now, let us not fail to note, Mr President, this strange way of acting in the Bureau that we deserve no follow-up. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u285	Mr President, I understand your objection, but indeed what has been presented to me was a majority resolution of the Committee on Agriculture. I thought that this majority corresponded to the majority of the plenary and, therefore, the Bureau should not interfere in this context, but I admit other positions. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u286	Excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u287	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u288	Mr President, if we had been asked, we would not put any opposition. Allow me to correct it, but only unanimously can the agenda be changed less than 15 days away. Therefore, regardless of what the Committee on Agriculture, on the various geometries that were found there, would have to decide, this opinion would have to be asked to each parliamentary group or to the plenary, something that has not happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u289	Mr President, that is exactly why the vote will be only generally.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u290	I call on the Bureau to make an inquiry on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u291	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u292	Mr President, in this case it is only to qualify, for the purposes of scripting, that there is no consensus for the vote on the replacement text. We will therefore vote on the PCP, PSD and CDS bills in general, with no consensus on the overall final vote of the replacement text today on the last day of our work. This is to clarify, to know what we're going to be voting on shortly. There is no consensus because the PS Parliamentary Groups and the Left Block did not give that consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u293	Mr, there is consensus to vote in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u294	Only, and only the three projects, but not the replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u295	There is consensus to vote in general, which is, in fact, what was planned in the script. Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 570 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), 572 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD ) and 573 / XIII ( 2. ( a). The last item on our agenda is timeless for debate and concerns motions for resolutions 51 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves Convention No 187 on the Promotional Framework for Safety and Health at Work adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation at its 95th meeting. the Session, held in Geneva, on 15 June 2006, 53 / XIII ( 2. (a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire on Air Services signed in Lisbon on 22 June 2016 and 54 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol amending the Convention on Infringements and Certain Other Acts Committed at the Aeronaves Edge, signed in Montreal on 4 April 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u296	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u297	Is it for an interrogation?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u298	Mr President, it is an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings and to clarify what Mr Nuno Magalhães has said, because we have known the CDS long enough to realize that these things must be clarified well. from the Left Block, and the Bureau can confirm, there was no opposition to any kind of vote or scheduling on any of today's diplomas, and that was not the problem I put in my intervention, was the action of the Bureau in the way that the Rules of Procedure were not complied with...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u299	Mr. Deputies, it is clear. In any case, what will happen, as regards the issue that has been raised, is what is in the script, which is a vote in general. Mrs. Members, before we start the voting period, I would ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to take account of the file entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u300	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and the following initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 94 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for fire safety in buildings, which falls to 11. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 582 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish a maximum price system for bottle gas and channelled gas ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 583 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures that the municipal transit duty rate and the occupation rate of the basement are not reflected in the consumer invoice ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 584 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend Law No. 24 / 2009 of May 29, in order to integrate a member appointed by the Order of Portuguese Psychologists into the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 585 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amended Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March 2009 on Social Action in the School, including the supply of vegetable beverages under the School Milk Programme ( PAN ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 586 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the provision of vegetable beverages in the school office by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 587 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the transmission of an undertaking or establishment ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 588 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Environmental management programmes for golf courses ( The Greens ), which fall to 11. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 1007 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a psychological intervention team to respond to the fires of Pedrógão Grande, Castanheira de Pera and Figueiró dos Vinhos ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1008 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the strengthening of psychologists on a permanent basis in the Group of Northern Pinhal Health Centres ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1009 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the permanent presence of psychologists in the groups of Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera and Figueiró dos Vinhos ( PAN ), 1010 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake work at the Basic School 2 / 3 Avelar Brotero, integrated in the Group of Adelaide Cabette Schools, in Odivelas ( PAN ), 1011 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates the date of 15 June as the Huntington National Day of Disease and recommends that the Government approve measures to reduce the impact of this disease and to support its patients ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1012 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the progressive free of charge of public higher education ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1013 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the second phase of the dredgings of the Lagoa de Obides ( Os Verdes ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1014 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct a CPLP summit on the topic of the sea ( PSD, PS, BE, and CDS-PP ), 1015 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — Reposition of the river beach in Sejães ( Oliveira de Frades ), destroyed by the hydroelectric use Ribeiradio-Ermida ( Os Verdes ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1016 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Awareness campaigns for waste reduction and selective deposition appropriate to recycling ( The Greens ), which fall to 11. the Commission, 1017 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Security at the Lisbon Metropolitan ( Os Verdes ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1018 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the urgent resumption of the retraining works of the Gago Coutinho High School, in Alverca ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1019 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Combating trafficking in human beings ( The Greens ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 1020 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure compliance with the rules of welfare in the transport of live animals ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u301	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the voting period, I would like to say that at 4 p.m. Mr Martins has informed me that today he is going to request the resignation of his parliamentary mandate as a Member. It is therefore a sad moment for me, since it is a friend and comrade of struggles almost 50 years ago and someone who has been here in the Portuguese Parliament for about 30 years. Someone who is respected, someone who has several important roles, as leader of the PS Parliamentary Group and also as minister of our democracy, and who has always honored the functions and positions he has performed. I would therefore like to tell you that it has always been a reference to a generation since in 1969 as president of the Academic Association of Coimbra, and has dared to raise its voice against the regime of dictatorship and colonial war, and has always been consistent with this attitude throughout its intense political life. I hope that you will have a very happy life at this new stage and we certainly count on it for civic intervention, for the fight for democracy, for the Republic, for human rights, in which it has so much applied and taught us so much. I am going to give my comrade and colleague Alberto Martins the floor, especially now. Please, Alberto Martins. [[General applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u302	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, my dear friend Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, was to me a great honour to be and to have been a Member. I've been involved for 30 years for just over 4 years of government. I decided to close my parliamentary life today. I go out by personal decision, but I remain civicly committed to political life, because politics is our life, respects our daily life and our responsibility in the fates of others, of everything around us, in the search for social justice and the common good. I belong to a generation, the generation of Mr. President, who, when reaching adult life to some extent, had the horizon and destiny traced, especially in Portugal: a dictatorship, a underdeveloped country, poverty, misery, a colonial war, which pushed thousands of Portuguese outside our homeland. On 25 April, in my 29th year, it was that bright day that changed Portuguese destiny. when I arrived at the Assembly of the Republic, allow me a personal note in 1987, somehow re-founded me with the place by which the Portuguese people, for many decades, had fought, with the symbolic expression of the plurality different from the consent of dissent, the ability to hear the other, the conflict of ideas, the contradictory options and was, above all, the real and living institution of institutional freedom. The Assembly of the Republic was, and hence, our pride, a place of honour of the Republic, a democratic assembly and daughter of universal suffrage, the first without gender distinction and a work of 25 April that founded our democracy. I lived and I saw, in this house, forgive me this quick incursion, distinct moments and episodes, marked. I participated in various and difficult struggles, going through bitterness, joys, sorrows, silences, victories and defeats, as is the nature of democracy. I have built many friendships, respect and coexistence, of course also adversitys, but above all, I have the memory of the great parliamentary and political bulk of this House and also the imperishable memory of the sacred fire of democracy that Parliament represents. The Assembly of the Republic is more than each one of us and its circumstances are, par excellence, the constituent place of democracy. That is why I should like to congratulate all the Members and all the Members very simply. Members, Health V. Exa, President of the Assembly of the Republic, Health the constituent Members of this Chamber — Helena Roseta, Jerome of Sousa and Miranda Calha —, health the various parliamentary groups of the Assembly, in the person of their presidents, health my parliamentary group, in the person of Carlos César, my long-standing friend, and all the Members of all the boards. Allow me to greet the officials of the Assembly of the Republic for their professional work in defending the quality and competence of the administrative services of this House and all officials of the various parliamentary groups of this House. Finally, I greet the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, who have an essential role in political debate, in their interaction, criticism and dissemination and particularly in the public statement of the Assembly of the Republic. I leave this House with many of the assurances that I entered here: that the anchor of human progress is in the great values of respect for human dignity, in the sense of fraternity, in combating poverty, exclusion, precariousness at work, in respect for work, in combating inequalities, in defending the ethical inspiration of politics, in ecological balance as a vital imperative for future generations and for collective survival. I come out of this House anchored in values and in certainty, to use a beautiful and simple expression of Pericles, also a Democrat before time and far away, that «there is no happiness without freedom, nor freedom without courage». It is a good slogan for the Assembly of the Republic. [[General applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u303	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u304	To what effect, Mr. Carlos César?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u305	Mr President, it was to request permission from you and the parliamentary leaders to make a short statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u306	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of Parliamentary Leaders: This is a time of difficulty for the Socialist Party, seeing from the parliamentary action a fellow, a friend and a comrade of all time. Mr Alberto Martins was born and reborn on 25 April and took that day as the origin, reason and consequence of his civic action. It is, as you well know, a jurist of recognized competence, an iconic activist from the student opposition to the dictatorship, a fighter for democracy. He performed the highest functions in the Republic, from Minister to Member, in the course of eight legislatures, and the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. in these multiple conditions, Mr. Alberto Martins has his credit for dominant contributions in legislative production, in the country and in the Portuguese constitutional order. For this reason, Alberto Martins is an important part of our contemporary political history and, even more, of our democratic life, of the life and evolution of his party, a structural party of Portuguese democracy. Alberto Martins says goodbye to this Parliament as a reference to our parliamentary history. I want to leave, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, our tribute, our gratitude and a fraternal greeting. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u308	Mrs. Members, before we begin the voting period, the PSD Parliamentary Group intends to intervene, so Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u309	Mr President, I would like to announce to Mr President and to the House that today he has ceased his parliamentary leadership of the PSD for a period of six years, Mr Luís Montenegro and that at the moment the PSD Parliamentary Group has a new parliamentary leader, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, elected today, and a new banking direction. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u310	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I have already had the opportunity to congratulate Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares on the new, so important functions that he has been democratically invested by his Parliamentary Group and wanted to take this occasion for a very special greeting to Mr. Luís Montenegro, with whom I have often faced, not only here but also on television, and for whom I have always maintained high esteem and consideration, both political and personal. Congratulations, Mr Luís Montenegro, we all continue to count on you. [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]] Now, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the voting period, for what I ask the services to operate the quorum verification system first and foremost. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records the presence of 219 women and women. Ladies and gentlemen, to which the honourable Members add. Members João Ramos, of the PCP, and José Luís Ferreira, of The Greens, who failed to make the electronic registration of their presence, making a total of 221 Members present, and therefore there is more quorum than enough to deliberate. We have, first of all, vote No 364 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Francisco Varatojo ( PAN, 2 PSD Members and 3 PS Members ), which will be read by Mr André Silva. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last July 6, at only 56 years of age, Francisco Varatojo suddenly left us. He died off Cape Espichel, where he was diving with friends. A wise human being who devoted his entire life to instructing himself and disseminating a philosophy of life and a form of food: macrobiotics, a system of knowledge and holistic values. Macrobiotics means etymologically ‘ great life. ’ This great life means not only a long life but a conception of existence and everything that life can and should have: happiness, love, freedom and peace, in harmony with others and with nature. Founder and director of the Macrobiotic Institute of Portugal, made his life an example. in their own words, ‘ macrobiotics is not exclusively a diet, a regime but, yes, a lifestyle that aims to help us develop our human potential by following the laws of nature from a biological point of view (through diet), ecological (making daily choices that contribute to a better quality of environmental life), social and spiritual (treating others with love and compassion and assuming our responsibility as a small link in a vast chain of beings and phenomena). ’ Francisco Varatojo was an inspiration to all who crossed his path. Francis dreamed of a better, healthier, peaceful and sustainable world. Equipped with a huge Humanity and goodness, he raised consciences for the issues of deep ecology. Francisco Varatojo's respect for people, animals and nature was moving and it was also one of the first to publicly support the NAP project. He was an inspiring human being, cult and visionary, wise and simple, enterprising and humble, loving, kind and complete, coherent and elegant, enthusiastic, charismatic and with a sense of contagious humor. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, exalts its existence, which many have touched, and its civic and ethical conduct, guided by a high consciousness, and marks its death, conveying to its family, friends and the community the most meaningful grief».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u312	Mrs. Members, there are several families of Francisco Varatojo present in the galleries. We shall vote on vote No 364 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 365 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Francisco Varatojo ( PSD ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last July 6th, at the age of 56, Francisco Varatojo, Director of the Macrobiotic Institute of Portugal. Born in Leiria in 1960, he studied at the Kushi Institute in Boston, returning to Portugal in 1980 to dedicate himself to macrobiotic education. Married to Eugénia Horta Varatojo, with whom he founded the Macrobiotic Institute of Portugal, taught thousands of people the foundations of a healthier life and adequate food. His charism and influence, along with his qualifications and skills, made him a global reference in the macrobiotic approach, in the natural healing and in the resolution of social problems, contributing to the changes and healing of many hundreds of people, being regularly sought by the main European and North American centres. He was a regular contributor to SOL and Capital newspapers, Fathers and Sons magazine, Xis magazine and TV programs SIC 10 hours and Sofia’s Manhãs. He was author and co-author of several books, and guest professor of the Calouste Gulbenkian Higher School of Nursing. He delivered numerous conferences and lectures at different Portuguese public institutions, particularly at the Faculty of Pharmacy in Lisbon and at the School of Medicine in Coimbra. He was President of the International Macrobiotic Assembly and in 2010 was thanked with Aveline Kushi Award for his work and dedication for a better world. Convict environmentalist, born communicator and influencer by example and sharing, Francisco Varatojo has changed the world around him—and will continue to change him—through his work, the people he has touched and the knowledge he has conveyed. at the ceremony of his farewell, which filled the Thalia Theatre with hundreds of people, a sentence of his own, designed on the wall, was very demonstrative of what he did and of the vision he always shared. He said:‘ A full life must be lived in a spirit of generosity, we must constantly give not only material goods but also our availability, our time, our sympathy, our smile, our ability to contribute to the well-being of all. When we do this, we are contributing to the creation of a happier life for ourselves and others. We are creators of our life. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Francisco Varatojo and addresses his condolences to his relatives and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u314	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 366/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Liu Xiaobo ( PAN and 2 PS Members ), which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last July 13, 2017 Liu Xiaobo, Chinese human rights activist, teacher, writer, literary critic and Nobel Peace Prize. Born in Changchun in 1955, Liu Xiaobo directed his academic journey along the path of the Letters and Humanities. University professor, he was invited to a number of universities in Europe and the United States of America. In 1989, at the beginning of the pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square, Liu Xiaobo abandoned Columbia University and returned to China to participate in these demonstrations, actively collaborating in the negotiation processes for the peaceful release of a large majority of students in protest, saving their lives. It was from this moment that this activist nailed his name to the path of the struggle for human rights in China. In 2009, 20 years later, Liu Xiaobo was sentenced to jail for 11 years by the Chinese courts for helping to build a document signed by thousands of citizens who demanded political reform in China. In 2010 he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, but in his place it was an empty chair that received the Prize. Liu Xiaobo was unjustly arrested. Liu Xia, a painter, poet and photographer, the activist's wife, was sentenced to house arrest following the award and the Chinese government criticized the Norwegian Academy's decision which, in the eyes of the current regime, awarded a subversive criminal. But Liu Xiaobo's fight has nothing to do with a criminal. It is subversive, yes, because it contradicts a political model that constantly closes its eyes to rights, freedoms and guarantees. It's brave, because it challenges the established power. It is human, because it places human rights at the heart of political reflection. It is hoped, therefore, that it will continue and will continue to encourage the action of thousands of dissident activists who work daily for a democratic China and for the construction of a global consciousness that rejects a dissociated economic progress of human rights. That is why our duty is not to forget the action of Liu Xiaobo and honor his struggle in the least contribution we can offer. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session on 19 July 2017, expresses its deepest regret at this sad loss and pays tribute to Liu Xiaobo, expressing the deepest condolences to his family, friends and the Chinese activist community. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u316	Let's vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens' abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u317	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u318	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u319	Mr President, it is to inform the House that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this regret vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u320	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We still have vote No 367 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Maria Teresa Eugenio de Almeida ( CDS-PP and 4 PSD Members ), which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last July 14th died Maria Teresa Eugénio de Almeida, at the age of 95 in a life dedicated to the mecenatic mission to educate, help the next and preserve the national heritage. With Vasco Maria Eugénio de Almeida, her husband, was created the Eugénio de Almeida Foundation, that Maria Teresa Eugénio de Almeida, Countess of Vilalva, was administrator until the 2000s. To ensure that the Foundation had real capacity to act, Teresa Eugénio de Almeida renounced the right to enjoy the estate of her husband, who died in 1975, which was thus the capital and financial basis of the work of the Eugénio de Almeida Foundation. With a great social concern, they carried out the reconstruction and recreation of the Cartuxa Convent, the creation of the ISSE – Évora Higher Economic and Social Institute, support for the creation of the Hospital do Patrocínio, a social neighborhood, the municipal aerodrome and various institutions of social charis. Its concern with the conservation and enjoyment of historical heritage is especially remarkable in Évora, where monuments such as the Pateo and Paço de São Miguel, the painted houses and the Palace of Inquisition are now cultural equipment open to all. Also with the Gulbenkian Foundation, the Vasco Vilalva Prize was created in memory of her husband and dedicated to the restoration of her estate. Teresa Vilalva placed her life and heritage at the service of others, in a simple and self-sufficient way, developing the work of the Foundation created by her husband, following a mission: to build culture through the safeguarding, knowledge and appreciation of cultural heritage. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, presents the condolences for the death of Maria Teresa Eugénio de Almeida to his family and friends, recognizing his dedication and his work for the city and the historic heritage of Évora and our country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u322	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We still have vote No 368/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Amorico Amorim ( PSD, CDS-PP and 2 PS Members ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last July 13th died the businessman Amorico Amorim. Born on July 21, 1934, in Mozelos, Santa Maria da Feira, he began his professional activity in a family context, particularly at the grandfather's factory, an industrial court. Orphan of father and mother at the age of 19, inherited a small share of the company Amorim & Brothers, and on this occasion entered the industrial unit. Alongside the brothers, he founded other companies in the cork sector, such as the Amorim Corticeira, the Ipocork or the Champcork, also references in the sector. Amori Amorim supported his intervention by the ability to ‘ see further, ’ marked by the internationalization of companies, which took the cork to the four corners of the world, catapulting Portugal for the world leadership of the sector. While the holding Corticeira Amorim managed the companies of the corticeira area, Amorim — Investments and Participations extended the business areas. The cork sector remained a fundamental area, but Amorico Amorim embraced business areas such as energy, tourism, real estate, telecommunications or banking. By combining their action in a vision of openness to the international market, Américo Amorim created productive wealth and, through it, added value to work, using thousands of people and never turning his back on the social fabric of his land, with whom he collaborated permanently. The journey of Amorico Amorim led to his thanks in 2006 with the Great Cross of the Order of Freedom. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the disappearance of Amorico Amorim and honors the business vision and entrepreneurship that have always guided their conduct and resulted in the creation of wealth and the strengthening of social cohesion. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u324	Let's vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE and the PCP and the abstention of The Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just appreciated, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The following vote: No 362 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning and repudiating discrimination against the Roma community in the parish of Head Gorda, municipality of Beja ( BE ). The PCP has requested time for discussion and there will therefore be 2 minutes for each parliamentary group that wants to intervene. Mr João Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This vote reveals that the Left Block does not care about building falsehoods, offending people and undermining their work if this brings some media projection. The Block accuses the President of the Big Head Board of refusing the wake of a citizen. First falsehood, because whoever decides to use the mortuary is the parish, it is not the parish board. The Left Block accuses this President of the Board of Racism and Discrimination of a citizen for being a Gypsy ethnic group. Another falsehood. The Block knows that this Board ensures the Roma community access to drinking water, which promotes the school integration of its children and their access to social benefits... [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] ... and, for example, also on the Internet, from the seat of the Board. It also provides board material for parties and weddings from that community. [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] The Block also knows that the obstacles to the execution of the funeral had nothing to do with the fact that the deceased was a Roma ethnicity but, rather, with the fulfilment of the regulation that must be applied to all citizens in the same way, regardless of their ethnicity. [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] The Block knows that there were legitimate doubts about the residence, because the deceased had a house rented in another parish, where he died, knows that he was indicated as a residence of the deceased the address of the post of the post of the post and also knows that there is no record of that citizen in the many social support processes that the board deals with in that community. There may be different views on the content of a regulation, as do so many others that exist throughout the country, but this does not permit the abusive transformation of this situation into a case of discrimination. The question is how the Block passes these doubts into an accusation of racism and discrimination. Why does Bloc first sentence and only then ask, without even contacting the Board President? [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] Why did the Bloc keep this vote of condemnation, despite the clarifications that were sent yesterday to the Assembly of the Republic, confirming that there was no attitude of racism or discrimination and why does it not say a single word about the support of that Board to the Roma community? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u326	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u327	The CFP will continue to condemn racism and xenophobia and will combat any forms of discrimination, whether racial or otherwise.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u328	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u329	I shall conclude, Mr President, that we have an express attitude not only in words but in intervention in the authorities, in relations with citizens of various nationalities, ethnicities and cultures. What deserves condemnation and repudiation is the attitude of the Block which instruments causes, facts and populations on the basis of lies, distortion and falsification, revealing methods that classify themselves. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u330	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the various faces of discrimination and racism, discrimination against the Roma community is one of the most frequent and unfortunately most installed in our country. Also, the fight against all expressions of unjustified and preconceived discrimination against the Roma community must be a priority for all of us. The Assembly of the Republic must assume its responsibility in this fight for human rights and against prejudice against the gypsies in particular and against any other group or condition. It must do so regardless of who practices these behaviors and the circumstances in which they occur. The facts to which this vote relates are unequivocal. We speak of the indisposability of the cemetery of a parish for the inhumation of a citizen of Gypsy ethnicity without any truly consistent criteria justifying this refusal. [[PSD protests.]] The discrimination that is justified by regulations often does not cease to be discrimination. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u332	Because we do not accept the perpetuation of a culture of discrimination that victimizes the Roma community and because we believe that the Assembly of the Republic must be a determined protagonist in the fight against this discrimination, we propose this vote to condemn the aforementioned decision taken by the Board of Freguesia de Cabe Gorda, in the Council of Beja. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u333	Since the Bureau no longer registers for interventions, we can proceed to the vote on vote No 362 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning and repudiating discrimination against the Roma community in the parish of Head Gorda, municipality of Beja ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PAN and PS Deputies Idália Salvador Serrão and João Soares, votes against the PCP and The Greens and abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] [[It is of the following content: The country was confronted with the refusal, on 14 July, of the realization of the sail and burial of a citizen of Gypsy ethnicity in the mortuary and at the cemetery of the parish of Cabeça Gorda, municipality of Beja. The reason claimed by the President of the Board concerned to refuse the request in this sense submitted by the deceased citizen's family was the failure to verify the requirements enshrined in the cemetery regulation - namely the claim that ‘the deceased spent most of his time in other neighbouring fregueries’ - but this argument proved to be very controversial in view of the reality of the facts. In the face of the intransigence revealed by the royal executive of the Fat Head parish, the mortal remains of the deceased citizen were to be deposited at the cemetery of the neighbouring parish of Salvada, thanks to the provision of a jazigo by a local family. Since the deceased citizen is a member of the Gypsies community and this circumstance constitutes a very decisive reason for the refusal of the veil and burial of the body in the public equipment of Cabeça Gorda, this refusal is an act of serious discrimination in violation of the Constitution of the Republic and the law. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, 1. It condemns and repudiates the situation of discrimination with the refusal by the Board of Freguesia de Cabeça Gorda, Conseil de Beja, of the realization of the sail and burial of a citizen of the Roma community, considering that this refusal is an attack on the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic and the law. 2. Condemns and repudiates all forms of discrimination against the Roma community practiced by public or private entities, in violation of the Constitution and the law. 3. It expresses its commitment to contribute to the eradication of all forms of racial, religious and sexual discrimination and other forms of discrimination against the fundamental principle of equal dignity of all citizens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u334	Mr Nuno Magalhães, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u335	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote in order to justify our vote in this vote, because it is manifestly inability to ascertain whether or not the facts are true.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u336	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u337	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to declare that we are going to present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u338	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u339	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u340	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to vote No 363 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the classification of Hebron as World Heritage ( The Greens and 4 PS Deputies ). I call on Secretary Idália Serrão to read out.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The UNESCO World Heritage Commission approved the classification of Hebron as World Heritage during the meeting held from 2 to 12 July in Krakow, Poland. The Old City of Hebron is thus on the World Heritage List of Humanity, and UNESCO has also declared that Hebron is at risk, and should deserve special protection from the UN. Hebron is a city of Palestine located in the south of the western margin occupied by Israel since 1967 and is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the world, with a remarkable architectural set, highlighting the Ibrahim Mosque. In 1996 the Palestinian National Authority established the Hebron Rehabilitation Committee, whose work of conservation and rehabilitation deserved the prestigious Aga Khan Architecture Prize. It should be noted that the Palestinian authorities have been obliged to apply for this classification for an emergency process due to the continuing acts of vandalism by Israeli settlers who are, in fact, proven by UNOCHA reports ( United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ). in this context, Hebron's classification is a deserved and legitimate recognition and is more justified when the Israeli occupation persists. It is recalled that as early as 2015, a delegation of the Assembly of the Republic constituted by representatives of all parliamentary groups was in Hebron and witnessed not only the wealth of the historical and cultural heritage of this city but also the violence and threat that represents the occupation. In view of this, the classification of Hebron as World Heritage represents an important contribution to avoiding the destruction of a heritage of undeniable historical and cultural value and is another step towards the recognition of the rich culture of the Palestinian people. Thus, under the applicable constitutional and regulatory provisions, the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party proposes to the Assembly of the Republic the following congratulation vote: The Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary on 19 July 2017 welcomes the classification of Hebron as a World Heritage Site of UNESCO, constituting a just and legitimate victory and an important and worthy recognition of its cultural wealth and the rights of the Palestinian people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u342	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote just read out, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the members of the CDS-PP João Rebelo and Teresa Caeiro and the Member of the PSS João Soares and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PSs Pedro Delgado Alves and Rosa Maria Albernaz.]] Mr Amadeu, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u343	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u344	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 955/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Greece and Andorra ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 987 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic from 1 August to 31 October ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 974 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Depollution of the Good Water River ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 984 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a set of actions aimed at depolating the Almonda River and its tributaries ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 986 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures aimed at depolating the Boagua River ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 992 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to put an end to the pollution of the Boagua River and to force the relocation of the main pollutant factory unit ( BE ). The vote on points 1, 2 and 3 was requested separately. We shall first vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, PS, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes in favour of BE were rejected.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 3. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 995 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the urgent measures necessary for the effective and total depolation of the Boa Água River ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 998/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the depollution of the river of Good Water and actions to monitor, identify and punish polluters (NAP). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall then vote on draft resolution No 1003 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Against pollution in the Almond River ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 996 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Equality of working conditions between all employees of the public administration and the business sector of the State irrespective of the bond ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 997 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the integration of all health professionals of the SNS into careers linked to the Public Administration by means of public employment contracts, correcting existing inequalities at the level of the Public Business Entities ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 1005 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure equal rights between workers with individual employment contracts and workers with public employment contracts ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 973 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — To solve the pollution caused by two processing units installed in Arrifana, Santa Maria da Feira (The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 978 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to definitely end pollution and bad-heaps caused by two factories in Arrifana, Santa Maria da Feira ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 985 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to solve environmental problems caused by processing units of animal by-products in Santa Maria da Feira ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will move on to the general vote on Bill No. 495 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for drawing up and subscribing projects, labour supervision and labour management, which is not subject to special legislation, and the duties applicable to them and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February ( PSD ). Mr António Lima Costa, ask for the floor for what effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u345	Mr President, I should like to note that I have a particular interest in the matters dealt with in the next three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u346	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Jorge Falcato, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u347	Mr President, for the same purpose, that is to say that I have a particular interest in the next three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u348	Be registered. Mr. António Topa, would you like to speak for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u349	Mr President, yes, so that I have a particular interest in the next three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u350	Be registered. Mr. Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u351	Mr President, it is for the same purpose that I have a particular interest in the next three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u352	Be registered. Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u353	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I have no direct impediment to voting, but in a cautious attitude, I would rather declare my impediment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u354	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u355	Mr President, it is also to be noted that I have a particular interest in the following three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u356	Be registered. Mr Renato Sampaio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u357	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I have no direct interest, but for precautionary purposes I also wanted to make this statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u358	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u359	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u360	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u361	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. Although I do not have direct interests in this area, I am a member of the Order of Engineers and therefore wanted to transmit this information to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u362	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u363	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u364	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u365	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. I also have direct interests in this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u366	Thank you, sir. We can then now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 495 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work, which is not subject to special legislation, and the duties applicable to them and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD, the Greens, the PAN and PS MP Joaquim Raposo, votes against the member of BE Jorge Falcato Simões and 25 PS (Alberto Martins, André Pinotes Batista, Ascenso Simões, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Elza Pais, Helena Roseta, Hugo Pires, Isabel Santos, João Soares, Luís Vilhena, José Manuel Carpinteiro, José Miguel Medeiros, José Rui Cruz, Maria Augusta Santos, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Miranda Calha, Pedro do Carmo, Renato Sampaio, Ricardo Bexiga, Ricardo Leon, Santinho Pacheco, Sergio Sousa Pinto and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and abstains from PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u367	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u368	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u369	Mr President, it is to declare that I shall, on my own behalf, present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u370	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u371	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u372	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u373	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u374	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u375	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u376	Mr President, the Left Block bench will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u377	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u378	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u379	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u380	Mr President, I will also make a statement of vote on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u381	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u382	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u383	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u384	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. I shall, on my behalf, present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u385	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 576 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work and the duties applicable to them and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February, ensuring the correct transposition of Directive 2005 / 36 / EC ( PAN ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD, the Greens, the PAN and PS MP Joaquim Raposo, votes against the member of BE Jorge Falcato Simões and 25 PS (Alberto Martins, André Pinotes Batista, Ascenso Simões, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Elza Pais, Helena Roseta, Hugo Pires, Isabel Santos, João Soares, José Manuel Carpinteiro, José Miguel Medeiros, José Rui Cruz, Luís Vihéna, Maria Augusta Santos, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Miranda Calha, Pedro do Carmo, Renato Sampaio, Ricardo Bexiga, Ricardo Leon, Santinho Pacheco, Sergio Sousa Pinto and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and abstains from PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u386	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u387	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u388	Mr President, it is to announce that Mr. João Pinho de Almeida and I will present a statement of vote on these two votes myself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u389	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u390	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u391	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u392	Mr President, it is to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u393	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u394	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u395	Mr President, is it also for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u396	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u397	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u398	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u399	Is that for the same purpose, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u400	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u401	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote in general on Bill No. 577 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the management of works, amending the standard relating to the qualification of project authors ( PAN ). The title and initial text were replaced by the author on 19 July. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD, the Greens and the PAN, votes against BE, the CDS-PP and 25 members of the PS (Alberto Martins, André Pinotes Batista, Ascension Simões, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Elza Pais, Helena Roseta, Hugo Pires, Isabel Santos, João Soares, Luís Vilhena, José Manuel Carpinteiro, José Miguel Medeiros, José Rui Cruz, Maria Augusta Santos, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Miranda Calha, Pedro do Carmo, Renato Sampaio, Ricardo Bexiga, Ricardo Leon, Santinho Pacheco, Sergio Sousa Pinto and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and abstentions.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 989 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen responses to mental health ( PSD ). The PS calls for joint voting on points 1, 2, 6, 7 and 8 and then points 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u402	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u403	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u404	Mr President, we propose that points 1, 2, 6 and 8 be voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u405	We would then vote on points 1, 2, 6 and 8 together, then point 7, and finally points 3, 4 and 5. Is that so, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u406	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u407	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u408	Mr President, can we vote on points 1 and 2?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u409	The best thing is to vote points one at a time. We shall vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, BE and PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on point 5. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on point 6. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and the Abstaining from BE.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 7. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 8. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 1004 / XIII ( 2. a ) — Strengthening the responses of the National Health Service in the area of mental health in Portugal ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft law No 570 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish a set of urgent measures to support the victims of large pedrogon forest fires and to strengthen fire prevention and combat ( CFP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u410	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u411	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u412	Mr President, we shall now generally vote on the replacement text which has been delivered by PCP, PSD and CDS. In the debate, Mr. João Oliveira pointed out that there was an opening for more parliamentary groups to subscribe to this text and, therefore, at the moment, having been able to evaluate the text, we wanted to give the Bureau an indication that we would also subscribe to it for the general vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u413	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will generally vote on a single text, signed by the PCP, the PSD, the CDS-PP and the BE, relating to the projects of lein.o 570 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a set of urgent measures to support the victims of large pedrogon forest fires and to strengthen fire prevention and combat ( PCP ), 572 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the assumption by the State of responsibility to compensate the heirs of the fatal victims and the serious injuries following the fire of Pedrógão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertan, between 17 and 24 June 2017, and creates the procedure for determining and paying such compensation ( PSD ) and 573/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs a committee for the rehabilitation of victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017 and regulates the payment of compensation to the victims of these fires as well as to their heirs ( CDS-PP ). This replacement text has the support of the PCP, PSD, CDS-PP, and also BE. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PS and the NAP.]] The diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 51/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves Convention No 187 on the Promotional Framework for Safety and Health at Work adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation at its 95th meeting. the Session, held in Geneva, on 15 June 2006. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 53/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Côte d’ Ivoire on Air Services signed in Lisbon on 22 June 2016. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on motion for a resolution No 54 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol amending the Convention on Infringements and certain other acts committed on board aircraft signed in Montreal on 4 April 2014. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 114 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the results of the application of Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December at the end of its first year of validity ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 119 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an assessment of the application of the housing-supported lease scheme in conjunction with and collaboration with the competent entities ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 927 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Need to provide the Country with an updated National Conservation Strategy for Nature and Biodiversity ( The Greens) ( initial text replaced at the author's request ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 625 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the approval of an investment programme in the proximity rail network and the recovery of quality in public public transport ( BE ) for which the vote was requested in three blocks: first, the body and points ( a ), ( b ), ( d ) and ( j ) of point 1 ; second, points ( e ), ( f ), ( g ), ( h ) and ( i ) of point 1 ; third, point 1 ( c ) and point 2.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u414	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u415	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u416	Mr President, I would like to confirm that one of the groups has point 1 ( c) and point 2 ( 2 ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u417	Yes, sir, it is the third group I have announced. Mrs. Members, let us therefore vote on the body and points (a), (b), (d) and (j) of point 1. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] Let us now vote on points ( e ), ( f ), ( g ), ( h ) and ( i ) of point 1. [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, and the PS and PS abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 1 ( c) and point 2. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u418	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u419	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u420	Mr President, I do not think you put point 1 (d) of this diploma to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u421	That item was voted on in the first group, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u422	Mr President, I therefore vote in favour of point 1 ( d ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u423	The PSD abstained in this vote, but in this case the vote of the honourable Member on point 1 (d) is in favour. This point has been rejected and the result has not changed, but the vote by Mrs Fatima Ramos is recorded. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 819 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of the Fortaleza de Juromenha, municipality of Alandroal, in the list of buildings that integrate the REVIVE ( PSD ) programme. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u424	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u425	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u426	Mr President, in order to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u427	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 938 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the port metro network — Porto ( Campo Alegre ), Matosinhos and Vila Nova de Gaia ( PCP ) ( title and initial text replaced at the request of the author ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u428	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u429	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u430	Mr President, to announce that I and the other Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group elected by the electoral circle in Porto will present a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u431	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Paulo Correia, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u432	Mr President, to inform us that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u433	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 766 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Outermost regions ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 937 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Post-2020 ( PS ) cohesion policy ( initial text and title replaced at the author's request ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 957 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — To deepen the status of ultraperipheral ( PCP ) for which the PS requested a point vote. We shall proceed to the vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 945 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Requalification of the Basic and Secondary School Anselmo de Andrade in Almada ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 946 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Requalification of the Fernão Mendes Pinto High School in Almada ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 967 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation of the Fernão Mendes Pinto High School in Prague, Almada Town Council, and quickly remove all asbestos fibration plates ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 968 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent retraining of the basic and secondary school Anselmo de Andrade in Almada ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 939 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Concretization of works at Basic School 2, 3 Avelar Brotero, in Odivelas ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 961 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Replacement of the buildings of the Basic School 2, 3 Avelar Brotero, of the Grouping of Adelaide Cabette Schools, in Odivelas ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 976 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the early preparation of a plan for the urgent implementation of rehabilitation works at EB 2, 3 Avelar Brotero, in Odivelas ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u434	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u435	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u436	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u437	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we turn to draft resolution No 900 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to pre-school education for all children from 3 years of age and the extension of social action in the context of combating child poverty ( BE) ( initial text replaced by the author's request) for which the CFP requested the vote of points 1, 4 and 5 separately from points 2 and 3. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on points 1, 4 and 5. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on points 2 and 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were rejected and votes against the PS, BE and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u438	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u439	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u440	Mr President, to inform you that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u441	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u442	Mr President, for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u443	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u444	Mr President, for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u445	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 792 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review and strengthening of the allocation ratio of operational assistants and technical assistants to ungrouped groups and schools ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u446	The PS is just talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u447	We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 969 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government change the criteria and the calculation formula for the allocation of non-teaching personnel to groups of schools and non-grouping schools, taking into account the types and areas of buildings, training offers and the student universe ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u448	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u449	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u450	Mr President, to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u451	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 358 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Students with special educational needs in higher education ( PS ), 511 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — By a public and inclusive education in higher education ( PCP ), 512 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — For greater inclusion of students with special educational needs in higher education ( PSD ), 514 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — answers at higher education level for students with special educational needs ( NEE) ( The Greens), 515 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government draw up an action plan to enable students with special educational needs to be accessible to higher education ( PAN) and 516 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Support for students with special educational needs in higher education ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 329 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Effective accessibility for all students with special educational needs for higher education ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u452	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u453	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u454	Mr President, to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u455	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Susana Amador, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u456	Mr President, to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will also deliver a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u457	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Joana Mortagua, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u458	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u459	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u460	Mr President, for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u461	Mr Amadeu Soares Alberbergaria asks for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u462	Yes, Mr President, for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u463	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 533 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the schemes from the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability by 15. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 7 February ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 534 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the legal regime applicable to term contracts by implementing the recommendations of the Working Group for the preparation of a National Plan for Combating Precaire ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The following is draft resolution No 830 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reverts the grant of youth hostels to private ( BE ). The separate vote was requested under points 1 and 2. Let us therefore vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 831 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — End of public financing to academic claws ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens and votes in favour of BE, PAN and 6 PS (Carla Sousa, Diogo León, Filipe Neto Brandão, Pedro Delgado Alves, Rosa Maria Albernaz and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u464	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u465	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u466	Mr President, it is to announce, on my own behalf and on behalf of Mr Leon and Mr Ivan Gonçalves, that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u467	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u468	Mr President, to inform you that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the same vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u469	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 884 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include a representative of the Portuguese Broadcasting Association in the National Council for Culture ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 933 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In defense of the archaeological site of the city of Balsa ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 942 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by preserving the ruins of the ancient city of Balsa ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 980 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the preservation and protection of the ruins of the ancient Roman city of Balsa in Tavira ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u470	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u471	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u472	Mr President, in order to announce that, on the last three votes, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u473	Be registered. We shall vote on draft resolution No 952 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government publish the order setting out the date of the establishment of the cat identification obligation in accordance with Article 6 ( 3 ). the Decree-Law No 313 / 2003 of 17 December ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Therefore, in this case it can be said that there is a cat here, and there is. [[Laughing.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 964 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by modernising the Silves river perimeter, to the benefit of creating conditions of competitiveness for algarvian agriculture ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u474	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party will deliver a vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u475	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u476	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, but on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u477	Yes, it seems to me that it must be on behalf of another parliamentary group. We proceed with the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 667 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government partially exempt the payment of social security contributions to producers of raw cow's milk ( PSD ), 669 / XIII ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government grant a new period of temporary exemption from payment of social security contributions to milk producers ( CDS-PP ) and 761 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the partial dispensation of the payment of contributions to the social security of dairy producers ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE and the CDS-PP and against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u478	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u479	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u480	Mr President, to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u481	Be registered. The following is draft resolution No 757 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government support for national dairy production, the fight against speculation of large distribution and the conclusion of positions for the replacement of a regulatory regime ( CFP ). The PS requested the breakdown of the vote on points 1, 2 and 3 of the draft resolution. Let us therefore vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the NAP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verde, votes against the PAN and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the NAP.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 694 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — Benefits of EN 223 between the node of Arrifana of IC-2 and the node of Santa Maria da Feira da A-1, serving the industrial axis involving the municipalities of Oliveira de Azemés, S. João da Madeira, Santa Maria da Feira and Arouca ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 781 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the support and appreciation of ourseries and the strengthening of our contrasts and national press — House of Coin ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 836 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote the development of the steel industry and the strengthening of contrasts ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the projects of lein. 420 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 308/2007 of 3 September 2007 — Create and regulate the financial support programme Port 65 — Rent by young people ( PSD ), 466 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September establishing the financial support programme Port 65 — Rent by Youth ( Port 65 — Youth ) ( CDS-PP ), 487 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — extends by five years the maximum age for access to the lease support programme Porta 65 ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September ) ( BE) and 493 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Enlargement of beneficiaries and the support of the Porta 65 Youth Programme - third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September establishing and regulating the financial support programme Porta 65 — Rent by Youth ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft law No 452 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Planning of the nuclear emergency and involvement of citizens ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In the overall final vote, we shall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Bill No 515XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Provides for prior consultation of municipalities in administrative procedures relating to prospecting and research, experimental exploitation and exploitation of hydrocarbons ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the CFP, votes against the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and the Greens.]] We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Bill No 76XIII ( 2 ). (a) — Alter the Law on the Basics of Public Land Policy, Land Planning and Urbanism. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In the overall final vote, we shall vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Bill No 60XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary housing support for all families affected by the August 2016 fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u482	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u483	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u484	Mr President, to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u485	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 79 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the special arrangements for access to basic data and electronic communications traffic data by SIRP and draft law No 480 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Access to traffic, location or other related communications data by officials and agents of the information services of the Portuguese Republic ( CDS-PP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this vote must be done electronically. I call on the services to prepare this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u486	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u487	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u488	Mr President, because of the time we are voting and some biological needs, some Members of the Left Block had to leave the Chamber. I wonder if we can postpone this vote for a few minutes, since it is electronic and implies all... [[Don't!]] [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u489	Mr President, I am sorry, but there is no such parliamentary practice and we shall therefore vote. In the meantime, the services will prepare the electronic system and if the Members are quick, it may be that this issue can be resolved by everyone's satisfaction. The vote is done electronically, but also by those who are up and sitting. We shall therefore proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 79 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the special arrangements for access to basic data and electronic communications traffic data by SIRP and draft law No 480 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Access to traffic, location or other related communications data by officials and agents of the information services of the Portuguese Republic ( CDS-PP ). [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 162 votes in favour (PSD, PS and CDS-PP), 34 against (BE, PCP and Os Verdes) and 1 abstention (PAN).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u490	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u491	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u492	Mr President, it is to inform me that I cannot register to vote for failure on the computer, but I do report that my vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u493	Mrs. Members, Mr Amadeu Soares Alberbergaria also voted in favour. In any case, the final text was adopted by a large majority in the overall final vote. We shall vote in general, in the speciality and overall finality of the text of the replacement, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedom and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 81 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2017 - 2019 ( the Government withdrew its initiative in favour of the replacement text ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and against BE, PCP and Os Verdes, with the absence of the NAP.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 347 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Excluding the Judiciary Police and the Foreign and Border Service from the scope of the General Law on Public Works ( fourth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 ) ( PCP ) and 467 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the General Law on Public Works, excluding the Judiciary Police and the Foreign and Border Service from their scope ( fifth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ) ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 471 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by strengthening the fight against racial discrimination (BE). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with general rejection, votes in the speciality and overall finality are adversely affected. We move on to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 90 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, to the fifth amendment to the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom, approved by Law No 115 / 2009 of 12 October 2009, to the first amendment to the electronic surveillance law, adopted by Law No 33 / 2010 of 2 September, and to the second amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System, approved by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August, and to Bill No 470 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the system of penalties applicable to discrimination due to disability by amending Article 240. the Criminal Code ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No. 484 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 5 / 2008 of 12 February 2008 approving the creation of a database of DNA profiles for the purposes of civil and criminal identification and first amendment to Law No 40 / 2013 of 25 June approving the Law on the Organization and Operation of the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 70 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — regulates the application and enforcement of restrictive measures adopted by the United Nations or the European Union and establishes the sanctioning regime applicable to the violation of restrictive measures. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall, in general, vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 86 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory and transposes Directives 2014 / 36 / EU, 2014 / 66 / EU and ( EU ) 2016 / 801 ( the Government withdrew its initiative in favour of the replacement text ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on an application by the CDS-PP for a vote by the plenary of the vote, in the speciality, of Article 3 ( d ) ( ix ). the Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July, as set out in Article 2. that of that replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the special vote on Article 3 ( ( d ) ( ix ). the Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July, as set out in Article 2. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PS and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: (ix) Transfer of capital in the amount of EUR 200 000 or more, intended for the firm in difficult economic situations or in insolvency situations, provided that its use is in an approved recovery plan and approved in the context of a special process of revitalization or insolvency proceedings, or in agreement between the undertaking and its creditors, under the extrajudicial scheme for the recovery of undertakings.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u494	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in the special session on the assumption by the plenary of the remaining indicative votes held within the Commission. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 86 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory and transposes Directives 2014 / 36 / EU, 2014 / 66 / EU and ( EU) 2016 / 801. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the drafts of lein.o 359 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates the purchase and sale of pet animals ( PAN) and 360 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the impossibility of using the Internet to announce the sale of wild animals ( NAPs ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on Bill No 65 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to logging and re-arborrowing actions ( the Government withdrew its initiative in favour of the replacement text ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on a request by the PSD for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 3. the -A to Decree-Law No 96 / 2013 of 19 July, as set out in Article 3. that of that replacement text, for which an amendment was submitted by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u495	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u496	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u497	Mr President, the CFP also made a request in the same direction, so I think we can vote together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u498	Mr. Member, in the Bureau is the request submitted by the PSD. Only then do we vote in the specialty. Mrs. Members, let us first vote on the request submitted by the PSD for a vote by the plenary on the proposal for an amendment to Article 3. the -A to Decree-Law No 96 / 2013 of 19 July, as set out in Article 3. that of the replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech, which has two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u499	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents an amendment proposal to reconcile forest yield with the promotion of biodiversity exchanges through environmental conservation models. The PSD wants forest producers to contribute to this biodiversity, but to do so without prejudice to what their income is. thus, the PSD aims to make it compulsory that those who plant new areas of eucalyptus also constitute a conservation project to be defined by the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and das Florestas). We believe that it is not discriminating a species that we will combat all that has been the lack of forest prevention, but we believe that this species itself can be a factor in promoting a better environment and more incentive for investment in the rural world. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, voting in favour of this proposal from the PSD also eliminates the perversity underlying the Government's proposal, which encourages the relocation of the forest of production from the interior of the country to the coast, creating more asymmetries, more desertification, more abandonment of the land. Mrs. Members, after many hours of voting, this is the opportunity to reach a consensus, to be able to all of us to participate in what is a better forest, without prohibitions, without stagnating a species, but, above all, to allow all to be planted, to allow producers and other people to continue to have their incomes from the forest without leaving the country and without disregarding those who so often have more difficulties in less favoured areas and deserve an opportunity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u500	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the proposal, tabled by the PSD, amending Article 3. the -A to Decree-Law No 96 / 2013 of 19 July, as set out in Article 3. the text of the replacement, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on the proposal for a law No 65 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 3 ‘Article 3a (...) 1 — (...) 2 — Re-arborization with species of the genus Eucalyptus s.p., is permitted only when the previous occupation is of species of the same genus. 3 — Exceeding from paragraph 1 and paragraph 2, the logging and re-arboring actions with species of the genus Eucalyptus sp., provided that not included, in whole or in part, in the National Network of Protected Areas, Natura 2000 and in the Forest Regime and when the following cumulative conditions are found: (a) (...) (b) Be accompanied by conservation project, approved by the IUCF, whose area represents at least 10% of the area subject to logging with the species of the genus Eucalyptus sp. 4 — The conservation projects referred to in point (b) of the previous paragraph shall be approved and defined territorially by the ICNF. 5 — The completion of the implementation of the actions integrated into the conservation project referred to in paragraph 3(b) shall be communicated to the ICNF, IP, within a maximum period of 15 days following its implementation. 6 — A list of areas occupied by conservation projects resulting from paragraph 3 shall be made available on the ICNF Internet site, IP, with its location and size.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u501	We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 3. the -A to Decree-Law No 96 / 2013 of 19 July, as set out in Article 3. that of that replacement text. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with the absence of the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in the special session on the assumption by the plenary of the remaining indicative votes held within the Commission. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall move on to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on Bill No 65 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal regime applicable to logging and re-arborrowing actions. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the proposal for a law No 66 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the national land bank and land mobilization fund ( the Government has withdrawn its initiative in favour of the replacement text ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PS, BE and the PAN.]] Mrs. Members, with this rejection, it does not make sense to vote on the request by the PS for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 4 ( 1 ). the proposal for an amendment to the same number and Articles 6. it's 8. the and its proposals for the elimination of these articles of that replacement text, as well as the votes in the speciality and global final. Therefore, we turn to page 38 of the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u502	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u503	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u504	Mr President, on the proposal submitted by the PSD, amending Article 3. the -A to Decree-Law No 96 / 2013 of 19 July, as set out in Article 3. the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 65 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a), my sense of vote is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u505	Mr President, you have to announce your vote at the time of the vote and not later, because we are very busy ahead.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u506	In any case, I would also like to say that my point of vote on Article 3. the -A, as set out in Article 3. the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 65 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a), it is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u507	The vote is recorded, which does not alter the overall outcome. [[Pause.]] Was Mr. André Silva in the Chamber when it came to these votes?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u508	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u509	So you can't vote. So there are two problems in one. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. The general vote on the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on the proposal for a law No 68/ XIII ( 2 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Alter the National Fire Defense System ( the Government withdrew its initiative in favour of the replacement text ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u510	Mr President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u511	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u512	Mr President, I am sorry, but I did not understand what we just voted for. I should like to repeat the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u513	Mr President, we have just voted in general on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the proposal for a law No 68 / XIII ( 2 ). (a) — Alter the National Forest Defense System against Fires. Let us then vote again. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall now vote on two requests submitted by the CFP for a vote by the plenary, the vote on the proposal for an amendment to Article 13. the proposal for an amendment to Article 15 ( 12 ). the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 13. that of that replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, and BE abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 13... 1 — [...]. 2 —... 3 —... 4 —... 5 —... 6 —.... 7 —... 8 —.... 9 — The ICNF, I.P., has the responsibility to develop the equalization instruments necessary for the installation of the primary network. 10 — The Government shall be authorised to define the mechanisms for the application of the instruments provided for in the previous paragraph and the guarantee of compensation for the affected owners.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u514	Mr João Ramos, who has two minutes, speaks for an intervention on the requests for counsel presented by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u515	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin this speech by reaffirming the position of the CFP ever since the so-called "forest reform" was presented and by saying that it alone does not solve the problems of the Portuguese forest. There are no means, human resources and financial resources to solve the problems that the forest has been facing for a long time. The laws that exist can always be improved, but do not guarantee the reversal of the path that the Portuguese forest has followed so far and therefore we have no problem in saying that it can be a fraud by placing the emphasis on solving the problems of the forest on proposals and on laws that will certainly not be able to solve them alone. In addition, I would like to say that proposals which were put forward several months ago had serious problems. For example, they made no reference to baldiums, which is the largest forest area in the country and did not address the essential problems of the forest, such as the price of wood — this is a problem which the CFP has brought to debate and continues to reaffirm — and the financial support needed to solve these problems. The outcome of the final vote on these initiatives has brought about positive changes, but there are serious aspects that continue to be resolved and therefore the CFP has submitted a request for legal aid to eliminate references to land without unknown owner and, to this end, to avoid the flow and concentration of property. As regards the protection of the forest against fire, it is not possible to transfer the powers of the State to the authorities. What the State has never done now is the authorities doing so. We therefore also advocate this matter. Finally, we understand that an equalization mechanism is needed to ensure the redistribution of costs with fuel management ranges, and that does not exist. We understand that this is the last opportunity to value and safeguard the small farmers of this legislation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u516	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 15 ( 12 ). the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 15 — By 30 April of each year, the non-compliance referred to in the previous paragraph shall be conferred on the ICNF, in conjunction with the municipal chambers until 31 May of each year, to carry out the fuel management work, with the ability to recover, triggering the mechanisms necessary for the reimbursement of expenditure carried out.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u517	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u518	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u519	Mr President, it is to correct the meaning of the PS vote. in the proposal submitted by the CFP, amending Article 13. the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) the vote of the PS Parliamentary Group shall be in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u520	So, let's repeat that vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u521	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u522	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u523	Mr President, appealing to the Bureau's patience, indicates that BE's vote is favourable with regard to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 13. the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u524	The best thing is to repeat the vote on this proposal. Mrs. Members, let us vote again on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 13. the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[The following shall be added: ‘Article 13... 1 — [...]. 2 —... 3 —... 4 —... 5 —... 6 —.... 7 —... 8 —.... 9 — The ICNF, I.P., has the responsibility to develop the equalization instruments necessary for the installation of the primary network. 10 — The Government shall be authorised to define the mechanisms for the application of the instruments provided for in the previous paragraph and the guarantee of compensation for the affected owners.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u525	The proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 15 ( 12 ). the replacement text was rejected, with votes against BE. Is it true, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u526	Mr President, I ask you to repeat this vote, too, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u527	I understand that we are all very tired, but we have to ease each other's work. We shall again vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 15 ( 12 ). the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the EB abstention.]] The vote in the speciality is followed by the vote by the plenary on the indexary votes held at the Commission building. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on Bill No 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the National Forest Defense System against Fires with the amendment introduced. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN, against the PCP and the Greens and with the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall then, in general, vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the proposal for a law No 69 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a simplified cadastral information system ( the Government has withdrawn its initiative in favour of the replacement text ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on a request by the PS for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of the proposal for a replacement of Article 19. o and proposals for the elimination of Articles 20. a 26. that of that replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote in special terms on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 19. the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 69 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] [[This is the following: SECTION IV Procedure for the identification, registration and registration of buildings without known owner Article 19 Procedure for the identification, registration and registration of buildings without known owner The procedure for the identification, registration and registration of buildings without known owner is defined by decree-law, after the evaluation of this law to be carried out within one year of its entry into force.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u528	The vote on Rule 19. the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 69 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a) is damaged. We proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS on the elimination of Articles 20. a 26. the text of the replacement relating to Bill No 69 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote in special terms on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held within the Commission. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The following is the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on Bill No 69 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a simplified cadastral information system with the amendments introduced. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 300 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the national cadastral information system ( SNIC ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of the Member of the PS Helena Roseta.]] Votes in the speciality and overall final of Bill No. 300 / XIII ( 2 ) are prejudiced. ( a). We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 464 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a legal regime for logging, re-arboring or afforestation ( BE) actions. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens, with votes in favour of BE and with abstention from the NAP.]] Votes in the speciality and overall final of Bill No. 464 / XIII ( 2 ) are prejudiced. ( a). We shall generally vote for Bill No. 500 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the public agricultural land bank ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, PS, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes in favour of BE were rejected.]] Votes in the speciality and overall final of Bill No. 500 / XIII ( 2 ) are prejudiced. ( a). We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the drafts of lein. 457 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment to the law establishing the schemes for the linkage of careers and remuneration of employees who perform public functions ( PSD ) and 475 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish conditions for equality between workers in career progression by managerial option ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft law No 482 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Agrees on the free choice of domestic electricity consumers by the regulated tariff regime by amending Decree-Law No 75 / 2012 of 26 January ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on the drafts of lein.o 206 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents cash payments above 10 000 €(BE) and 261 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans cash payments above € 3000 ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on the projects of lein.o 405 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures the right to joint custody of minors for the purposes of IRS ( PCP ), 434 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures the right to jointly declare expenditure on dependents for the purposes of IRS(BE) and 485 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the right to jointly declare expenditure on dependents within IRS(NAP); [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, concerning the proposal for a law No 71 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime of the central registration of the effective beneficiary and transposes Chapter III of Directive 2015 / 849. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u529	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u530	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u531	Mr President, to announce that the CDS will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u532	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. We now turn to the overall final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 72 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing by transposing Directive 2015 / 849 and implementing Regulation 2015 / 847. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation on Bill No 73 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — regulates the automatic exchange of mandatory information on cross-border prior tax decisions and prior arrangements on transfer prices and on taxation by transposing Directive 2015 / 2376 and Directive 2016 / 881. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on Bill No 80 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Single Circulation Tax Code, the Municipal Property Tax Code and extend the validity of the tax benefits relating to scientific mecenate. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 87 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the tax procedure and procedure. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 88 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Partially transposes Directive 2014 / 91 / EU as regards the functions of depositaries, remuneration policies and penalties. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u533	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u534	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u535	Mr President, to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u536	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 74 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates credit recovery funds. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the PS, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, with regard to Bill No 74 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates credit recovery funds; together we shall vote for the full vote on the proposal to amend the body of paragraph 2, submitted by BE, of Articles 70. o 77. the, submitted by the PSD, and the proposal for an addendum to Article 70. o -A, presented by the PCP. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u537	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two things that cannot be confused with this proposal that we are discussing today: one is the agreement reached by the damage done by BES with the government and the supervisory institutions; another is the law which serves as a "hatter" to this agreement, that is, the law we now vote on. The Left Block has criticisms of doing both of these processes for two reasons: first, because the agreement implies a state guarantee that this law also provides and that it should be guaranteed by the financial system and not by the State; second, because the agreement leaves out other injured persons who have also been out of the original version of this bill. Still, we always assumed and always said that it was the possible agreement. It is an agreement that responds to hundreds of people who have longed for this answer, it is an agreement that respects a compromise that has been taken up in the Assembly of the Republic and to which the Left Block will not turn its backs. The Assembly of the Republic cannot change the agreement reached by the injured with the Government, but it can make the « hat» of the law more people, more injured. The Left Block proposed, in the field of specialty, the extension of the scope of this law to injured migrants who acquired products in Portugal composed of debts from Portuguese companies, but which were constituted as offshore. This proposal, submitted by the Block of Left, has been plunged into the field of specialty, thus restricting the scope of this law to emigrants injured in particular in Venezuela and France. We understand that this amendment to the law is fair and we want to advocate your vote by the plenary because we hope that the other parliamentary groups will change the sense of vote so that they can also open the law to the cases of the injured emigrants. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u538	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u539	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The position of the Portuguese Communist Party on the diploma we are voting on is known. Despite the commitment to the need to respond to the problem of those we call injured, of the people who were deceived by the Espírito Santo Group through the Banco Espírito Santo and, in a way, deception that was aggravated by the performance of the PSD/CDS government and the Banco de Portugal in the resolution of Banco Espírito Santo and in the way it was done,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... still, and, despite the CFP's commitment to resolving this problem, the CFP does not associate itself with the issue of a public guarantee without any safeguard from the point of view of the public interest. That is, what the PCP, at this time, calls on the Plenary to discuss and vote is the proposed amendment that it presented in the field of specialty, which points in the sense of being constituted a technical unit capable of identifying all the heritage perimeter, the goods, the wealth, the accounts based in offshore, in national territory, the property, the companies, everything that is still possible to seek to compensate for the deceptions that the Holy Spirit has been making through the Banco Espírito Santo. Not allowing this unit to be formed and to activate nationalisation, where necessary, in order to compensate for any public expenditure is to accept that a large part of the risk of private businesses is passed on to the accounts of the State and to the responsibility of the State. The contribution presented by the CFP here is precisely the possibility of activating the nationalization of goods and assets to compensate for public guarantees, where necessary, as far as possible and as necessary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u540	Mr Leitão Amaro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u541	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this last week we have become aware of the hidden version of what is, for the left, the return of income. The PS, the PCP and the Block have approved it and will again approve this return of income paid by taxpayers to benefit a group of few people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u542	I didn't see him vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u543	last week, UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) told us that your asset revaluation programme, approved by all of you, meant a tax bonus of EUR 242 million to a handful of companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u544	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u545	I'll pay for whom? by the taxpayers! [[PS and PCP protests.]] Only EDP, approved by all of you, will receive EUR 174 million! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] I'll pay for whom? by the taxpayers! But yesterday UTAO also told us, with your forgiveness to the bank, that the bank benefits from EUR 630 million, and who is paying? The taxpayers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u546	Exactly! Who saw you and who saw you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u547	That is, with the revaluation of assets, with forgiveness to the bank and now with a public guarantee, what do you decide? They decide that they are taxpayers to cover the risk in business between private investors.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u548	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u549	They decide it's the taxpayers to pay. To use the PCP expression, when the Holy Spirit Group deceives investors, who pays? The taxpayers! Great left we have here! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u550	Your friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u551	But this is consistent with what they have always said your government has hidden all this! He hid and lied to Parliament about the revaluation of assets, said it was 63 million euros of loss, after all it was 180 more! He lied and hid about forgiveness from the bank...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u552	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u553	... which is at least EUR 630 million and can reach, told UTAO, at EUR 2000 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u554	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u555	Mr Leitão Amaro, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u556	I will finish, Mr. President. He hid, day after day, question after question, what is this guarantee that taxpayers will have to give, by now, to ban supervisors of responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u557	Thank you very much, Mr President, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u558	I will finish, Mr. President. It's hundreds of millions of euros! We don't know when and who pays; for the left, who pays are the contributors! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u559	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u560	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has always argued that a possible and comprehensible solution involving both the injured and the regulators — the Banco de Portugal and the CMM ( Committee on the Market in Securities) — the New Bank and the BES, as well as the whole Parliament decided at the time of the Committee of Inquiry into BES. So we will not be working on a solution today, but there are truths about this very bad solution that the government has come to have to say. The first is that it is not a solution for everyone; it is a solution that leaves out many and many. And it doesn't, and that's what impresses most, according to the criteria of justice. It is a hat where some fit and, inexplicably, you leave many outside. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And it does not do so on the basis of criteria of justice, it does not depend on whether or not it has been deceived to have been more or less deceived, it does not do so on the basis of the greater or lesser responsibility of regulators. Leave out, in fact, many who deserved to have a solution today, but perhaps even because, perhaps, they were working outside, did not protest so much or did not speak so loudly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u561	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u562	Justice is not for some, justice has to be for all! And even for those within this agreement, even for the equal and non-discriminatory treatment of them, the PS showed intransigence and led this proposal. It's incomprehensible. It is finally a solution in which the State provides a guarantee without giving any explanation or explanation as to its use or the compensation it expects of the guarantee it gives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u563	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u564	It is even being seen that, as in many other cases, it will then be necessary to ask UTAO to know how the State has used this guarantee.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u565	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u566	Of course, Mr. President. I would conclude by saying that this is one last opportunity that the PS has to correct and for once and for all to make a law that is in fact a fair hat and in which justice can choose between injured and not your opaque criterion. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u567	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u568	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost two years after the resolution process of Banco Espírito Santo, the Government of the Socialist Party presented to this House a bill that aims to comply with the recommendations adopted by all parties with seats in this House and also the resolution adopted unanimously asking the PSD/CDS Government to find a mechanism that minimizes the losses of the damage of BES. There are hundreds of Portuguese families who have lost everything, without having been blamed and without having had any support from the previous government. We now have two parties, especially the PSD, who participated in the Committee of Inquiry and adopted the recommendations, who participated in the resolution and approved the recommendation to its Government. We know today that they approved something that they didn't intend to approve or comply with... [[PSD protests.]] ... and therefore disrespected the damage done by BES both in the Committee of Inquiry to BES, both in the resolution, and they also disrespected themselves and this House of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] They didn't just disrespect the injured! They have disrespected the work of all the Members of this House and Portuguese democracy. The resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic are not mere words, they are resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic and they must be met and taken seriously by all the Members who approve them. Is this solution perfect? It is certainly not, but it is certainly a much better solution than that presented by the PSD/CDS government, since it did not leave some injuries outside, it left everyone, while they approved in this House resolutions that they did not intend to comply with. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government of the Socialist Party, as soon as it took office, took seriously the task given to it by this Parliament : it worked to seek a solution. Like I said recently, is it a perfect solution? Oh, my God! Don't! It was the possible solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u569	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u570	The Socialist Party announces here and now that it will approve the proposal submitted by the Left Block and the advocacy it has made to include also Venezuelan immigrants and others who had been excluded from the original solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u571	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u572	One thing is certain:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u573	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u574	...we promise, we do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u575	Please conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u576	We take these people seriously and respect them — the opposite of what the PSD does. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u577	Let's move on to the votes...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u578	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u579	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u580	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u581	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u582	Mr President, my plea is to ask that Mr Galamba, through the President, be distributed to Mr. João Galamba, and to all Members, the report of the Committee of Inquiry and the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, because nowhere is it said that they are the taxpayers who have to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u583	It is recorded, Mr, but it cannot intervene, because there is no time for intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u584	The problem is that, except that Mr. João Galamba...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u585	There is no time to speak at this time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u586	...he doesn't realize that, to taxpayers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u587	I ask you to conclude, it is a matter of respect for all colleagues, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u588	It costs them a lot to pay. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u589	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote in the speciality of the bill. Let us begin by voting on the proposal tabled by the Block on the Left, amending the body of Article 2. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u590	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u591	Mr. João Galamba, it has been a long time, we are all very tired, it makes no sense to have more speeches or appeals to the Bureau. We shall proceed to the vote... Do you intend to use the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u592	It's just to say that without public guarantee there's no solution and so... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u593	You can't, you're not in the use of the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u594	If you want a solution, you have to have a public guarantee...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u595	Mr President, you are not speaking, you cannot intervene when you wish. I ask you to respect the Bureau and to respect your colleagues in the Assembly of the Republic. There are no further interruptions and we shall proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting on the proposal tabled by the Block on the Left, amending the body of Article 2. the proposal of Law No 74 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PSD Deputies António Ventura, Berta Cabral, Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa and abstentions from PSD and PAN.]] [[This law applies to funds for the recovery of claims held by emerging unskilled investors or related to the subscription of securities representative of debt, subject to Portuguese law, or marketed in Portuguese territory, provided that: (...)]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u596	Let us now vote on Articles 70. o 77. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and the BE, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 70. o -A — Technical Unit for the Identification of Financial Assets and Flows — to the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u597	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u598	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u599	To request the separate vote of paragraph 4, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u600	So, if there is no opposition, we will first vote on paragraph 4 and then vote on the rest. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we shall vote on Article 70 (4). o -A of the proposed addendum presented by the PCP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — Capital assets, furniture and real estate, of the beneficiaries of the debt constituted by the issue of securities identified in Article 2 of this Law which have not been used by the Credit Recovery Fund, by the Technical Unit the Government shall nationalise them with the aim of obtaining compensation for the possible State guarantee activation provided for in the preceding Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u601	Let us now vote on Article 70 ( 1 ) to ( 3 ). o -A, proposed by the PCP. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] They were the following: 1 — The authorisation of State guarantees provided for in the preceding article shall be accompanied by the creation of a Technical Unit for the Identification of Financial Assets and Flows, hereinafter referred to as the Technical Unit, of the beneficiaries of the debt constituted by the issue of securities identified in Article 2. or the present law. 2 — The Technical Unit provided for in the previous paragraph shall be equipped with legal, administrative and regulatory instruments and mechanisms to enable it to carry out the procedures deemed necessary for the performance of its mandate. 3 — Respecting legally established secrecy obligations, the Technical Unit shall be mandated by the Government and its regulatory and financial supervision entities to provide it with access to the information necessary to each financial entity or foreign jurisdiction considered relevant, solely within the scope of its mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u602	We shall now vote in the speciality on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the Commission. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of Bill No 74 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates credit recovery funds, with the change introduced in the meantime. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and BE, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Deputies António Ventura, Berta Cabral, Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u603	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u604	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u605	Mr President, I would like to request an oral vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u606	The declaration of oral vote will be held at the end of all the votes, Mrs Deputies. Let us now vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, concerning...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u607	Mr. President, I'm sorry,
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u608	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u609	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that the Members elected by the Madeira PSD will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u610	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr João Oliveira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u611	Mr President, I would like to make the same announcement with regard to the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u612	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u613	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u614	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u615	Mr President, I would also like to announce an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u616	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Finally, we will hear the oral explanations of vote. We will now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on Bill No 260 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Change the conditions under which a country, region or territory may be considered as a clearly more favourable tax system ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft law No 507 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defence of transparency and integrity in sports competitions ( PSDs ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the drafts of lein. 307 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a new legal regime to combat harassment at the workplace ( BE), 371 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the legislative framework for the prevention of harassment in the context of work in the private sector and in the Public Administration ( PS ), 375 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Prevents and combats harassment at the workplace ( Tenth Amendment to the Labour Code and Fifth Amendment to the Labour Procedure Code ) ( PCP ), and 378 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen protection against acts of harassment within the framework of labour relations ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u617	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u618	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u619	It is to announce that we will present a statement of vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u620	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote, in general, on the text of the replacement presented by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the drafts of lein.o 138 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Includes representatives of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council ( amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ) ( BE), 244 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in plenary two representatives of pensioners, pensioners and pensioners ( CDS-PP ), 346 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Integrates the representation of the National Council for Youth in the Economic and Social Council by amending Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ( PSD ), 414 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August governing the Economic and Social Council ( PSD ), 415 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Includes representatives of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council, amending Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ( PSD ), 417 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in plenary two representatives of the National Council for Youth ( CDS-PP ), and 425 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the seventh Act No 108 / 91 of 17 August governing the Economic and Social Council ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote in special terms on the assumption by the plenary of the Commission's indexary votes on the replacement text that we have just voted on. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the said replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u621	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u622	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u623	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u624	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Amadeu Soares Albertaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u625	Mr President, I would also like to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u626	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1014/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct a CPLP Summit on the topic of the sea ( Members of the National Defence Commission ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 93 to 104 of the Diário, concerning plenary meetings of 1, 7, 8, 9, 12, 14, 21, 22, 23, 28, 29 and 30 June. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, will give us an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees which is also important to vote. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u627	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Criminal Investigation — Judge 3 of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Case No 2074 / 16.3T9LSB, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Cristovão Norte ( PSD ) to intervene in the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u628	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there's no opposition, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now have two oral explanations of vote on the proposal for a law No 74 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates credit recovery funds. Mrs Mariana Mortágua is first inscribed, and you have the floor, Mrs Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u629	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Just to justify the vote on the Left Block, the bill we voted on on credit recovery funds does not oblige but allows a public guarantee to exist, and it is the fact that it allows a public guarantee so that the law can also allow an agreement already concluded between the injured and the government. This agreement has many aspects with which the Left Block is uncomfortable, it has many aspects with which we do not fully agree, but we also know that we have made a commitment, in the Assembly of the Republic, to give a reply to these injured and that, if it were not for the vote of the Left Block, the bill would not have been able to give that answer. That is why we have made this commitment and certainly left our opinion on the bill. It does not reflect everything we think about this matter, it does not erase our criticisms, but it has prevailed, in this field, the will that we had to fulfil our commitment to the injured, leaving clear and well-marked, once again, that the law itself does not oblige a public guarantee, is a possibility that may or may not happen. in this case, she already existed. It was the possible agreement, which we know and we want you to go forward. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u630	You have the floor now, too, for a statement of vote, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u631	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, as I have already said, has always argued that in this case it would come to a possible and satisfactory solution and therefore opted for a vote that would not prevent this solution. However, we would prefer a different solution involving the New Bank and BES, such as regulators, and also taking into account the different injuries that BES wants, more recently, BANIF left.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u632	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u633	We are talking about business paper holders, immigrants with applications and very different securities. We are even talking about some bondholders who did not exist at the time of the BES Committee of Inquiry, because they acquired their obligations, even after the resolution and the banks of the New Bank, and who suddenly saw themselves as a decision by the Banco de Portugal, with very little obligations. And we are also talking about those who are most recently resulting from the Banif resolution process. As long as an arbitral and fair justice solution is not reached among all these people and which also takes into account that the New Bank's own obligators are at the moment in a negotiating process, of which they can also be lost, I believe that we will hardly achieve a solution — and none of us promises or believes that it can be ideal, because, of course, it would be ideal for these processes and these resolutions to have not happened — that at least it can be fair justice between the various injured. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u634	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u635	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u636	Mr President, it is to inform that we will deliver to the Bureau a statement of vote on the final text concerning drafts of lein. 307 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE ), 371 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PS ), 375 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 378 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PAN) on harassment at the workplace.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-19.u637	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Before we finish the session, I inform you that the committees will continue to work until the end of the month, especially in final drafts, after this marathon of votes. I wanted to wish all the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good vacation to the next plenary session. I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 21 hours and 9 minutes.]]
