ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u1	Good afternoon, Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. the agenda for today's sitting is the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and the preparatory debate of the next European Council under Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. In order to initiate the two-year debate, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, the first questions are for the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u2	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in recent times of the new phase of national life, steps have been taken, although limited, in the recovery of rights and incomes, measures that have contributed, although still insufficiently, to make the country grow. in this month of April, thousands of children are receiving the increase of family allowance with retroactive to January. Families are also now paying less IMI as a result of the approval of the CFP proposal in this regard. The proposal to support fishermen with regard to the use of gasoline in fishing vessels, the decision to honour the memory with the recovery of the Peniche Fort and the creation of the Resistance Museum are other advances we have valued. This is the way we need to go, going further with a fair policy of reinstatement of income and rights. However, Prime Minister knows that many sectors affected by the measures of the previous PSD/CDS government, of drastic income cuts, rights and working conditions, feel a growing concern because they feel that these situations should have already been answered. And, looking at the Stability Programme and the national reform plan, developed and approved by the Government, these sectors feel that the solution to their problems is further removed. We could talk about doctors and nurses with marked protests, but also about teachers, educational action assistants, security forces agents, reformers, city workers and other sectors of the population, who feel the lack of response to essential services, whether in health, education or others, who have come here, by our hand, in the last debates. We could also talk about the transport sector, the Soflusa, the Transtejo, among others. These are concerns and concerns that are also ours. Mr. Prime Minister, our concern remains with the growing contradiction between the achievement of the goals defined in those EU interference and police programmes and to want to see the country grow robustly and sustainably, speeding up job creation, responding to the fair aspirations of those who have seen their lives recede in recent years. The fact that the Government is channelling all expected growth gains and surplus balances of public accounts to meet these targets at the expense of many sacrifices of workers and the people is right to our concerns. These taxes are a share of the country's development and are in contradiction with the need to respond to its problems, to ensure a fair return of income and rights policy. If so, how are we going to resolve this contradiction? Will the Prime Minister pursue the policy of freezing salaries in the Public Administration that has been going on for ten years? I repeat, Mr. Prime Minister, it has been ten years! Will it prolong the deadline for defrosting the careers of employees of the Public Administration? Are you going to leave for the calendars a full response to the scourge of precariousness? Until when will the reversal of the brutal tax collection that the previous government has promoted to work income, at the IRS, be dragged, for example, delaying the review of the steps? Will it delay the increase in the investment necessary for the development of the country's infrastructure and its economy and the improvement of the public services and social functions of the State? Yes, I know that there are many questions, but there are no fewer concerns, Prime Minister, and our conviction is that the country cannot accept these taxes and these constraints to its development; basically, it cannot postpone hope. Yesterday I heard Mr President of the Republic say that more wealth needs to be created and shared better. Good words have never hurt anyone, but the big question is this: how do words happen in acts, that is, how do Portugal get to produce, how do we value work and workers? Mr Prime Minister, we would like to hear your concern, your analysis of these fundamental issues which today mark the Portuguese situation. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u3	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u4	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I would not say that there is contradiction, but there is certainly tension, because in our economic policy we must simultaneously pursue different objectives and meet different commitments. There's tension between them sometimes, but there's no contradiction. On the contrary, the success of 2016 demonstrates how it is possible to articulate the elimination of cuts in public service wages, the elimination of cuts in pensions, the reduction of the tax burden with a better budgetary situation than we had before. Could we have pursued only one objective? No, because both are essential for the assembly to be more solid and for any one of them to be possible. If we fail to have a solid path from the point of view of budgetary consolidation, the situation will become worse for families and we will have worse conditions for investment by companies, for the creation of wealth, for the increase of national production and for the creation of jobs. We will therefore have to know how to articulate these policies. That is what we have done and the contribution of the CFP has been, in fact, essential for this to happen. The honourable Member gave several examples, but we could add more: it was possible to start responding to problems in the National Health Service. Last year, we hired more than 4000 National Health Service employees; we started to eliminate gross increases in moderate rates in the National Health Service and now we have to continue, with greater fiscal justice, changing the steps of the IRS; we have to continue in our state reform strategy, returning to the professionals of the Public Administration a career perspective, defusing careers. As we have mentioned several times here, we must respond to the need to at the same time strengthen the sustainability of our social security system and do justice to those people who have the longest careers. We must do this as a whole, but do it by articulating it with another fundamental objective, which is to have solid public finances, which do not give reason to those who are on the lookout for the devil to come and reverse the gains we have achieved throughout this year and a half. It is moving forward step by step and in solid ground that we will consolidate the progress we have achieved and continue the path we must pursue. That is how we should continue our work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u5	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have recorded the answer and we will be able to discuss here whether it is contradiction, whether it is tension, but what is confirmed, Prime Minister, is that Portugal really needs to get rid of the constraints that have bound our sovereignty and the development of the country. The issue of debt is one of those where the need for Portugal to release these garrots to development is most evident. Portugal needs to renegotiate its debt so that the billions of euros that are spent on debt interest today can be used to invest and develop the country. Next Friday, the CFP's proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary committee to study and prepare these solutions will be voted on and we are convinced that this will be an important step in the Portuguese State's consideration of the concrete measures that can and should be taken. There is another matter, directly related to external constraints, which is of great importance to hundreds of thousands of workers, which is that of combating precariousness. Combating precariousness in the public sector and also in the private sector requires political options and concrete measures. With our contribution, proposals have been adopted which must be implemented shortly to combat precariousness in the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u7	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u8	It is necessary to ensure that the Government takes the necessary measures in relation to all precarious public administration workers. In the private sector, it is also necessary to take these measures, particularly in relation to green receipts and false stages. Mr President, just give me 10 seconds to say that a proposal that we have is to give executive strength to the decisions of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority), so that, by detecting precarious situations, it integrates workers without giving employers the possibility of dismissal and flight to their obligations. I stress, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister : let us deal with this issue, because it is about the future of a generation we are talking about here. It is social justice that these workers expect. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u9	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u10	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, if there is any point where there is no contradiction or tension between us is on the issue of precariousness. And this has everything to do with growth, because if we really want to grow, in a lasting and sustainable way, we must abandon the model that created the illusion that it was possible to have productive companies and competitive economies again based on the destruction of rights, precariousness and low wages. We must invest in qualification and innovation and, for this, we must have sound and solid working relationships, because only a long-term working relationship makes it invest in qualification and allows workers to "dress the shirt" and to be able to apply their full potential to the service of improvement and productivity. We must therefore combat precariousness in the private sector. I know that right now in the Assembly of the Republic there are initiatives by the PCP, the Left Block and the Socialist Party to combat precariousness in the private sector and I hope that the Assembly of the Republic will quickly conclude this debate, which we believe is essential. As regards the public sector, we concluded on Monday the hearing of trade union structures in order to be able to be signed the door leading to the mechanism that was planned to combat precariousness in the public sector. Allow me, Mr President, to add something else. It is clear that in today's world no country is isolated and therefore there is an interdependence relationship, and the fact that we are part of the European Union necessarily implies sharing with the other 27 states rules that are common. No one can live — in a family, in a company, in a city, in a country, in a Union — without rules and without them being common. This is not tax, it is about sharing rules. We share with the PCP differences with some of the rules that are imposed on us. We share with the European Union some differences with the CFP as to some other rules. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] We believe that there needs to be a better arrangement for economic and monetary union. We need to have a more growth-friendly economic and monetary union, a more employment-friendly one, which stimulates the convergence of our economy and enables us to have greater cohesion. It is necessary to have rules that share less the possibility of growing up and having a stronger and more employment-generating economy. But for us, there is one thing that is clear: outside the economic union, outside the euro, we will certainly be worse than inside it. Of course, an effect that would have the euro's output would be the brutal devaluation of the incomes of Portuguese families and workers and the savings of Portuguese. That's a risk we can't run. But the fact that we are in the euro area does not mean that we agree with everything. We must be in the euro area fighting for the euro to be a better currency, a fairer currency, which allows for a prosperity shared by more countries and does not benefit just a few to the detriment of all others. That is a path we must pursue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u11	I ask you to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President. We also share the need to reduce debt and debt costs. To that end, the first condition is that we have lower deficits and primary balances that allow us to reduce debt and a budgetary policy that allows us to improve our ratings and reduce the burden of debt service at the cost of our Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u13	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u14	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is the policy we have been pursuing to achieve the results that demonstrate that it is also possible to gain cause. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u15	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, it was with great interest that I heard Mr Jerónimo de Sousa's question, pointing out contradictions in the Government's position on budgetary targets and compatibility with the objectives assumed in the framework of the European Semester. Mr. Prime Minister replied that there was no contradiction, that there was tension. But let me resolve, perhaps arbitrate, this matter, telling you that yes, there is contradiction. There is, of course, contradiction on the part of Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u17	Look no, look no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u18	When the previous government asked to stress exactly the need to meet the objective of meeting the objectives of the European Semester, making it compatible with financial consolidation and the fall in deficit, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, at the time considered this unsustainable and impossible. [[Protests by PCP MP Jerome de Sousa.]] Now that you're in the government think differently, of course, but at the time, when you were in the opposition, you thought that was absolutely unsustainable. It now reveals a little more sympathy and wisdom when it comes to the government on this matter. [[PSD applause.]] The Prime Minister replied as if the government had indeed resolved the problems of tension without contradiction. But that is not true either, as the Government itself explained. In the Stability Programme that it has given to Parliament, the Government presented a very interesting chart explaining how we passed the 2015 deficit by 2016. Excluding the measures relating to BANIF ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ), the deficit had been 3% — this was the basis for departure — and the government says it managed to move from 3% to 2%. But 0, 9 % — plus one tenth and it would be all the wonder they had achieved — resulted from a fall in public investment by 2015. It is not against the government's 2016 design, because it would then be immense. No, no! It is the fall of public investment in view of what was coming from 2015 — 0, 9 %. This is the contradiction, because we all realize that one of the main budgetary adjustment variables for this government was not the one that said it would be, in the budget it presented, but the one that actually occurred: that of public investment. And in this respect, Prime Minister, the contradiction of your side is total, because it was the Prime Minister who publicly stated that this saying that the economy would have to grow by sacrificing public investment could not be right, it was something that could not be conceived. After all, that is what the Prime Minister has put into practice! [[Congratulations from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.]] But, Prime Minister, it was not only at the expense of the public investment sacrifice, which does not even compare with what happened in bankruptcy years. However, before addressing other matters, I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister a direct question. Some time ago, the Government rejected the joint proposal under the law of the Banco de Portugal and the Court of Auditors to appoint two new elements for the Council of Public Finance and did so without any justification for this refusal. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister about this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u19	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u20	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, allow me first of all to take this opportunity to extend my condolences to Mr Luís Montenegro for his recent loss of family.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u21	That should be done personally!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u22	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, who for a long time said that it was impossible to follow the course of policies we followed last year, achieving the result we achieved, was V. Ex.a. Throughout the year 2016, the PSD repeatedly said by its voice and by the voice of the Minister of Finance of its Government, that it was arithmetically impossible for us to remain in a deficit of less than 3 % by adopting the measures we have taken. We were not only below 3 %, but also below 2 %, 5 % fixed by the European Commission, and we were even within 2 %. So we have achieved, arithmetically, what you had said was arithmetically impossible. Moreover, we have shown that it was possible to reduce in 2016 much of the measures to sacrifice the income of families, such as cuts in salaries, that you are returning only at the end of this legislation, the cuts in pensions, which were maintained against the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, and the brutal tax burden that they created on the work, resulting in a deficit lower than that which we were obliged to and, above all, less than all their forecasts. Therefore, if there is contradiction, it is between the results that we achieved and the results that you predicted we were going to achieve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I see it converted to the benefits of public investment and I am satisfied, because it will certainly enable me to support the fact that we will increase public investment by 21 % this year as far as it existed last year. [[PSD laughter and protests.]] He is well aware of the evolution of the investment: between 2010 and 2015 the investment fell from 27 % to 10 % and, during last year, we suffered a serious problem of transition of Community frameworks,... [[PSD protests.]] ... which caused the investment to have had a significant reduction. It is not true the thesis that the cut in investment was the way to meet the deficit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u23	What about the graph?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u24	... because, as you know, investment is financed by Community funds and the lack of expenditure means, above all, no revenue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] More, as the revenue is paid to the head and the expenditure is distributed over time, if we had had more investment, we would have had more revenue and we would have had no more expenditure, we would have had better deficit and not worse deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] Therefore, you well know why the transition of Community frameworks has been delayed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u25	Oh...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u26	... but you know even better than I did not benefit from this, on the contrary, we would have had better budgetary implementation if we could have had a chance to better implement the Community funds. I'm not going to lengthen, because I've seen that every time I talk about your bench, it gets more and more angry. [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u27	I think we all wish to have a rather peaceful and civilised debate and I do not want to contribute to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen get angry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u28	If I were to tell the truth...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u29	I therefore conclude by simply telling the honourable Member that under the law there are two persons of the Public Finance Council who must be proposed by the Banco de Portugal and the Court of Auditors, which the Government appoints. Upon receipt of the proposal, it was communicated informally to the two responsible for these institutions that the names would not deserve the approval of the Government for not bringing together the profile for the performance of these functions. Having the President of the Public Finance Council publicly accused the Government of having said nothing, I was then forced to formalize what had been discreetly transmitted: that the names would not deserve the approval of the Government, and they did not deserve it. at this moment, we expect a new proposal to be made to be properly appreciated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u30	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u31	Mr Prime Minister, we will now return to other questions, but there is one that is imposed, to which Mr Prime Minister has not answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u32	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u33	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u34	Why did the Government understand that it could not appoint the persons listed in the proposals by the two independent entities? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u35	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u36	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, if the proposal had been yours, I would certainly give you satisfaction on this matter. [[PSD laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u37	That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u38	It happens that I am sure that the proposals by the Governor of the Banco de Portugal and the President of the Court of Auditors have not been proposed by persons. So when any of them ask me this question, I will reply to them, but understand that it would be quite indelicable to reply to you, Ex., what I did not answer to myself, that they never felt the need to ask me why we had refused those names. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u39	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are right and what you just said is a joke without any fit for Parliament. The Council of Public Finance comes under the law and Parliament has every reason to ask the Prime Minister why the Government refuses to appoint, in accordance with the law, whom independent entities have suggested. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u41	I therefore call on the Prime Minister to amend his hand and this time to answer the question. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u42	You have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u43	Mr President, Mr Passos Coelho, thank you very much for your insistence. Under the law, there are two entities that propose and there is one entity that appoints. The appointment power is the government and the government does not deprive or abdicate its powers. [[PSD protests.]] This is, in fact, a principle which you have always followed, in matters in which the appointment was the competence of the government and I remember - I am well aware that on one occasion you have answered me: « This is a government competence, I exercise-CL-I. » That is exactly what: the government has changed and we exercise the competence that you exercised in due time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u44	But explain why!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u45	The reasons, I will give them to Mr. Governor of the Banco de Portugal, if I ever wonder why, and I will give them to Mr. President of the Court of Auditors, if I ever wonder why. [[PSD protests.]] No one has ever asked me why and I'm not going to have the indelicacy to answer to you, Ex. what I didn't answer to any of them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u46	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u47	Mr President, the Prime Minister's reply is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u48	It's a shame! [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u49	The President of the Court of Auditors and the Governor of the Banco de Portugal do not represent the people, but the Members and Parliament represent, Prime Minister! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] As Prime Minister, I have always been scolded by all the decisions I have taken and have never taken refuge in such visions, whenever I was questioned in Parliament about them. But on this subject, I will tell you exactly what is going on. Mr. Prime Minister, the Council of Public Finance was established in Portugal as a result of an agreement between the Social Democratic Party and the Government of the Socialist Party in 2010. Under this agreement — and I would like to ask that these documents be handed over to the Prime Minister — a working group was appointed, which presented on 6 April 2011 the proposed statutes which would be the basis of the creation of the Public Finance Council. This Council of Public Finance, in accordance with the report which the Government of the Socialist Party accepted — and which the PSD also accepted — said that they were independent entities, Banco de Portugal and Court of Auditors, who would appoint the entire Council of Public Finance. As Prime Minister in practice this report, adopting as statutes that the Council of Ministers would appoint the independent entities to propose...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u51	... and the former Government has appointed exactly for the Council of Public Finance which the Banco de Portugal and the Court of Auditors have proposed. Mr Prime Minister, it is therefore a matter of preserving the independence of the institution, which I know is not something that the Socialist Party values very much...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u52	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u53	It is not only about the Council of Public Finance. We have many examples of this in relation to UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support), which, in 2010, also saw its means reinforced by the PSD requirement against the views of the Government of then and the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party wanted, at the time, to impose here that the Council itself depended organically and financially on the Ministry of Finance and not on financial autonomy, as it should. So, Prime Minister, I want to tell you that the justification for refusing appointment must be given for you...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u55	... and I will give you one last chance to do so, because of Parliament and a matter of transparency before the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u56	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u57	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I have a little more to add. The independent entities you have referred to have the power of initiative to propose and the government has its own competence to appoint. If you agree, name it, if you don't agree, don't name it. That is what the government has done and that is how the government will do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u58	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u59	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u60	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we are clear about what the Government understands about what the law stipulates as regards the statutes of the Council of Public Finance. But I mean, then, to Mr. Prime Minister that, first of all, he is obviously failing a commitment made by a Socialist Party Government to the Social Democratic Party. It is strictly violating the spirit of this law, which is well expressed in the proposed statutes that the independent group, which was recognized by the Government of the Socialist Party, accepted. Therefore, we know that the government makes an incorrect interpretation of the law, but above all, it is missing an agreement that it made with the Social Democratic Party when it negotiated the feasibility of the 2011 Budget. Let me add, Mr Prime Minister, some possible reasons for the government to do so. It is precisely that the Council of Public Finance has been one of the institutions to expose the impossible arithmetic of its budgetary implementation. Right, Prime Minister! Open... [[PSD applause.]] [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u61	Miracles are not arithmetic, they are metaphysical!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u62	And we know, from Jorge Coelho, that whoever messes with the PS leads and whoever messes with the government takes! If you are in Banco de Portugal, where there are still appointments to be made for the administration, and in the Council of Public Finance, where there are also appointments to be made. The Socialist Party therefore deals badly with independent institutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u64	... and now we know that it also deals badly with Parliament, to whom it believes it is not due to satisfaction, for deciding, as it decides, in accordance with the law. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that we know how the Socialist Party compatibles tensions and runs away from contradictions—it ignores them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u66	So, what are you going to do in the next few years? the same way, the same way! Minister Pedro Marques had already tried here in Parliament that fantastic temptation to explain that, after all, it was the previous government that had the merit of 2% deficit in 2016 for not launching public tenders that would have allowed the public investment to be greater.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u67	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u68	Therefore, after all, my Government was still responsible for 2 % deficit in 2016. But, Prime Minister, with the knowledge I have, let me tell you that it is not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u69	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u70	The merit of 2 % is from your Government, not from me, but it was not due to the budgetary strategy that you proposed, due to the seizures and brutal courting of public investment, which is what the Government intends to do in the coming years to achieve these goals and that is no longer just a contradiction « to manage to see» or « Brussels to see», is a matter of great concern to the country. [[PSD applause, stand up.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u71	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u72	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, allow me to express some perplexity about the fact that you understand that the problems of the country are reduced to know why two people have been or have not been appointed to the Council on Public Finance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u73	Aren't you going to explain now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u74	in a country where there are still nearly half a million unemployed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u75	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u76	... in a country where there are so many people suffering from difficulties, the concern of you is to know why we did not accept the appointment of two people who have been proposed to us for the Council of Public Finance? Oh, my God! In fact, I do not understand whether the Council of Public Finance was so bad for the government, so would the government not be interested in changing the composition of the Council of Public Finance? I don't understand your logic! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Having the Council of Public Finance the merit of having failed all the forecasts, and the government — which has been accompanying all the failures of the forecasts during 2016 — had no interest in remodeling it? Oh, my God! With all honesty, I don't understand your concern. I would like to reassure the honourable Member as follows: this Government does not see independent entities as blocking forces nor does it see the Council of Public Finance as you have seen the Constitutional Court. No, we do not see the Council of Public Finance as you have seen the Constitutional Court! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u77	We'll move on to the PS Parliamentary Group. To ask questions, you have the floor to Mrs. Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, instead of what just happened now to the PSD, we will talk again about things that really matter to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we have the ability to do extraordinary things, such arithmetically impossible. Demonstration of this is the results achieved: a deficit of 2 %, the lowest in democratic history; the economy, which grew 1, 4 %; exports, which register new ceilings, and the unemployment rate, which remained at the threshold of 10 %. The results achieved and the goals set for the future prove that it is possible to recover on a social level, support people, capitalize businesses, take care of the banking sector and, at the same time, preserve the good balance of public accounts. But the most extraordinary thing is that, at the same time, we still have the ability to boost innovative projects at the international level, to have a vision, to trace a course and to achieve the goals. This is what this government has done: it has defined scientific diplomacy as a priority and the creation of an international centre for research and development focused on the Azores as an objective. during the last nine months 13 workshops were conducted in several countries, with the aim of designing a strategy for the study of the Atlantic. There were 13 workshops that culminated in a unique meeting in the Azores to prepare the creation of the International Research Centre for the Atlantic, the AIR Center. It was a unique meeting, which brought together government, science and industry, with 29 international delegations and plurinational institutions such as the UN and the European Space Agency, national centres such as the National Centre for Aerospace Studies in France, universities such as MIT ( Massachusetts Institute of Technology ) and Carnegie Mellon University ( CMU ), and international companies such as Airbus. It has 250 participants, all meeting with the aim of aligning the research strategies of the countries of the South Atlantic and the North Atlantic for international cooperation in areas such as climate change, energy, space, ocean and data management. A meeting marked by a vibrant enthusiasm, a firm commitment, openly undertaken by the various participating countries, which culminated in the acclamation of the creation of an intergovernmental entity, a mechanism that promotes efficient governance of international collaboration, making better use of existing, human and physical infrastructures in all nations. It was thus defined the establishment of the International Research Centre for the Atlantic in the Azores. The creation of this centre is a huge challenge. The AIR Center may change the paradigm of science in Portugal and the role of the Azores in developing a new agenda for science and technology, with an integrated approach to the Atlantic. Perspectives and expectations are enormous. The enthusiasm and commitment of the participants also. It is therefore important, Mr Prime Minister, to know what national commitments to consolidate the establishment of this centre. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u79	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u80	Mr President, Mrs Lara Martinho, if we want to grow up, we must effectively adopt a model that will enable us to do so - in a sustainable way, and grow looking at the future rather than the ways that have failed in the past. Knowledge is capital and therefore investing in the qualification of our human resources and investing in business innovation is absolutely critical. The opportunity we have — through science, research into the deep sea, climate change and space — to value our territory and the Atlantic depth that the Azores and Madeira archipelagos provide us is absolutely central. We must also place Portugal in what is its function in this world, as a bridge builder between the North Atlantic and the South Atlantic, between countries that go from India to Brazil, which go from the United States to China and with our European partners, who were present, either through the space agency or through several other European countries, of which I would like to highlight Luxembourg with whom we recently, in my visit, had the opportunity to sign a specific agreement. at this moment we have an action plan, whose goal is in 2018, we can have the AIR Center working. That is our objective and is in that sense that we are working on a great international alliance — based on knowledge and economic opportunities that can provide — so that we can have sustained growth, which can manage added value, which allows us to create and fix more and better jobs, more qualified, and that enables us to take full advantage of this generation that others have sent to emigrate and that we want to set up in Portugal and increase our growth potential, so that it will develop. It takes work to grow. That's what we're doing, and that's why we have the National Reform Programme. The National Reform Program is not abstractions, it is projects like this of the AIR Center that implement it, combining several of its pillars, that of the qualifications, that of innovation and that of the appreciation of the territory. This is how we will grow the country in a sustainable and lasting way to overcome the curse — which we have had since the beginning of the century — of mediocre growth, with an average of 0, 2 % per year. We need to grow, but to do that we need to do the work that is necessary. These are the real structural reforms that make the country grow, they are not the reforms of the past, that do not restructure anything and that are necessarily doomed to failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u81	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u82	Mr President, Prime Minister, we all remember the PSD prophecy, quite accompanied by the CDS, that it would be impossible to return income without exacerbating the external deficit or debt. Moreover, we also recall the references to the lack of credibility of this government solution and its Programme, saying that it would be precisely the markets and the European Union that would support it. It was such a discourse of the absence of an alternative. The reality, this harsh reality, for the PSD and the CDS, is to prove that the inevitable did not happen, precisely the opposite happened: there has been a return of income, the deficit is the lowest of democracy, the net debt has decreased, unemployment has decreased, GDP (gross domestic product) has grown for the benefit of the Portuguese. The right has set itself as the last reduction in the narrative of lack of investment, and it is precisely about the lack of investment that I would like to remember some examples and numbers that are important. No. 4. the quarter of 2016, the investment recovered substantially : it grew 3, 9 % compared to the same period of 2015, and 4, 6 % compared to the previous quarter, in fact, compared to the previous quarter, was even the largest growth of the last six years. It grew at the end of 2016, eight times more than at the end of 2015. Private investment accelerated strongly; at the end of last year, it grew around 15 %, while at the end of 2015 the year in which everything was all right, private investment was falling 3 %. In addition, in 2016, private investment has shown the largest growth in the last 16 years. As regards public investment, I refer to a phrase given by an unsuspecting entity, which is precisely the Council of Public Finance, which says that it may be related to the reduction of transfers from the European Union, which happened last year. And here, of course, there is a lot of explanation of the lack of homework of the previous government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u83	Mr. Prime Minister, consumer confidence is at most over the last 17 years. The economic climate, which translates the confidence of the various economic actors, is at most over the last 15 years. So, Prime Minister, taking into account all these indicators, the confidence of consumers and those of the internal and external economic climate, what can you tell us? What can the country expect as to the prospects for growth and investment behavior, both in its public and in its private aspects? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u84	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u85	Mr President, Mr Fernando Anastácio, contrary to what many have predicted, the current government solution has not diverted investment, on the contrary, by ensuring political stability and by ensuring a sustained growth perspective of our economy, has restored confidence to consumers and has improved the economic climate. The data of the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) for the year 2015 were already very clear: the main reason private investors did not invest was because they did not feel, by consumers, confident that they would justify their investment. What we verified, on the contrary, during 2016 was that private investment not only grew as it grew sustainably and consolidated itself, in fact, with a remarkable job creation. However, job creation is due precisely to the confidence that companies have that growth is not short-term, on the contrary, it is a growth that has come to remain. If we compare 2016 with 2015, we see that in 2015 private investment grew 1, 7% and that last year has already grown 6, 3 %. We can verify that, no. 4. the quarter of last year, gross fixed capital formation ( FBCF ) grew 15, 2 % for the same period of 2015. Therefore, contrary to what many feared, the current government solution has strengthened confidence and has enabled increased investment, sustained growth and job creation. The data we present for 2017 are still preliminary, but everything indicates that growth prospects will be better this year than last year's and, above all, investment prospects. The first fact that we have is that the estimate produced by the National Institute of Statistics shows that this year we have the best private investment estimate of the last nine years and we have already, in the first two months of this year, signs that fulfill this expectation. Firstly, investment in machinery and equipment, which is mainly carried out by companies to match their future, increased by 15 %. As regards the investment under construction by companies while paragraph 1. the quarter of 2016 was falling by 3 %, is currently rising by 6 %. here we conclude that we have good reason to believe that by pursuing the current policy of respect for the commitments we have made with the Portuguese, for the commitments we have made with the parties that assure the majority of parliament and for our commitments towards the European Union, we will be able to have political stability, macroeconomic stability, strengthen the climate of confidence and continue to witness the growth of employment, private investment, supporting economic growth and job creation. I think this is the way we should go, and this is the way we will pursue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u86	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u87	Mr President, Prime Minister, we celebrated yesterday another anniversary of April 25 and, as I know you particularly like the poems of Sérgio Godinho, I remember the following verses: « (...) There is only real freedom when there is/ Peace, bread / housing / health, education(...) ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we're working on it, but we still have a lot of work to do. The right to housing, as everyone knows, is enshrined in the Constitution. However, and unlike the other social rights in Portugal, housing is the only constitutional social right that has never had a basic law. My question is simple: is the Government available to advance, in conjunction with the PS Parliamentary Group, the launch of a basic housing law, which has already been recommended to us by the United Nations, so that we can, with the participation of the authorities, the residents, the partners of the sector, universities and civil society, build the basis of what housing policies should be, so that they are not under programmes that now have no money and, when they have no money, there are no policies? The second question has to do with neighborhoods in extreme housing shortage. We have seen in the news, with great concern, that there are still 2800 families in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto that were not covered by the PER (Special Programme of Realisation), although they were listed, we have seen that there are families that have not been identified because they arrived after and that PER is no word since 2009. We know that in the budget for this year there is a budget for PROHABITA (Financing Programme for Housing Access) but it is a small and short one. However, some of these neighborhoods joined together and sent an open letter to the Portuguese authorities and to social communication in defense of the human dignity of the right to housing. Some people not only do not have a decent housing as they are the target of unalternative evictions or have been deprived of electrical energy for months, Mr. Prime Minister. I've been in the Tower neighborhood and I've confirmed that five months ago people don't have electricity. The United Nations approved last year and Portugal supported the New Urban Agenda, which clearly says that nobody wants to be left behind and that everyone should be given equal access to basic services and adequate and affordable housing conditions. We know that the Government is already working on the lifting of housing shortages, following, in fact, a unanimous resolution in this House of the Republic. We also know that the Secretary of State of Energy has created a working group, which includes the authorities, the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana), the Under-Secretary of State and the Environment, the EDP Distribution, the Regulatory Entity for Energy Services (ERSE) and the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology, to find an urgent response to bring energy to some of these neighborhoods. I have three simple questions to ask you, Prime Minister. Is the Government available to, in conjunction with the Assembly of the Republic and the authorities, give an effective response to the right of all communities to access energy in conditions compatible with their income, that is, through a social tariff, even if it is necessary to change legislation? Is it available to mobilize all available resources, either in PROHABITA or in other instances, to give conditions of commensurate reallocation for families in extreme housing shortage? Could the availability not be immediately available, but is it available to, as far as possible, the medium and short-term solution to this problem? Finally, and this question is, for me, essential and Mr Prime Minister knows that it is: is the government available to host the participation and initiatives of local housing organisations and associations, as the Constitution of the Republic determines, so that they themselves also solve their housing problems? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u88	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u89	Mr President, Mrs. Helena Roseta, you know, because, over the last few years, we have talked a lot about the subject, which I think is essential for us to change the paradigm of housing policy. There was a paradigm that died with the crisis, it was a paradigm of a housing policy that settled in the freezing of income, killing the lease market, and easy credit, which contributed to the brutal indebtedness of families. We must once again have a healthy and affordable lease market. We have, unfortunately, exhausted public housing policies when, in the 1990s, PER was launched, which involved a great financial commitment by local authorities, and many of them, still today, are deeply indebted, to bear the charges then contracted. The municipality that Mrs. Deputy is President of the Municipal Assembly today has only basically the debt of PER, but this debt is still an effective constraint. The truth is that neither the eradication of the barracks has exhausted the need for social housing production, nor has the PER exhausted the existing needs in terms of social housing, as well as on the other hand — and it is very important — the housing needs, today, are not only those that can be satisfied by social housing, because the free lease market also means having an affordable lease market that allows the middle class, in particular young generations, to have access to housing. So we have to work on a new paradigm based on urban rehabilitation, which is fundamental, and we have, as you know, a set of programmes that will mobilise EUR 5000 million over the next 10 years, but we also have to move forward with regard to rent. It is therefore essential, from my point of view, that we have this basic law of housing policy, a law that must be widely involved, which must provide for precisely an important role for the residents' associations and neighborhood groups, that experience indicates that they are key elements in the management of many of the inappropriately called "social neighborhoods" and that is the way people will again take over their territory, their housing, their neighborhood and thus fully integrate themselves into the city. [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u90	You want to finish, Prime Minister, if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u91	I will now finish, Mr President. As you know, the Secretary of State for Energy was a working group to provide an emergency response to energy shortages. I believe that the problem is not in the social tariff, because the amendments we have introduced in recent budgets have enabled the social energy tariff to be extended from about 60 000 families to 800 000 families.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u92	You really have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u93	However, there is the problem of ensuring the legalization of discharges in order to ensure, with certainty, what are essential living conditions. Basic law, I think it is fundamental; a new generation of housing policies, is absolutely essential; working with local authorities is vital; and involvement of local communities is indispensable. PS applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u94	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u95	Mr President, Prime Minister, I believe that there is more than one tension between the Stability Programme and the joint position that we have signed. There is a contradiction between a strict reading of the budgetary treaty, which the Socialist Party had never stated and which appears in this Stability Programme, and the agreement we have to stop impoverishment, to achieve a recovery of income during the four years of the legislature and to provide the necessary means for public services. It is true that public services are without the necessary investment. It's true that everything is missing in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u96	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u97	It is true that there are too many classes in schools with less means and, therefore, it is true that there is a growing tension between students and teaching and non-teaching staff that needs more concrete measures and certainly needs investment. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u98	It is true that there is too much lack in the National Health Service and that this raises the issue of access to health and, from then on, primary care and that the objective of this is that each family has a doctor and a family nurse.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u99	But who approved the Budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u100	It is true that the progress we have achieved, that we have combined and that the Left Block either and that it continues to work so that it is possible to return incomes, in particular with the increase of IRS steps, which is essential to the progressiveity of taxes and greater justice in the country, sees increased difficulties with this Stability Programme. It is not new the tension, and a Stability Programme with such strict reading of the budget treaty is a novelty on the part of the government and not on the left side and brings us more difficulties, but the Left Block never goes back to the difficulties and here we are to negotiate a State budget that is faithful to the commitment to stop impoverishment in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u102	There is, however, something to be said: PSD criticisms are not because PSD matches the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u103	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u104	... because, in fact, the PSD does not bother with the results of the deficit or the budgetary consolidation process or the strict reading of the government's budget treaty, because they have always said that they wanted it, which bothers the PSD is something else, is the way that is being followed in the country, which is different. When PSD criticizes this path...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u105	Is it good or is it bad? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u106	... does not tell the whole truth, does not say that, instead of defrosting pensions and ending cuts, which were unconstitutional, in wages or social benefits, what the PSD wanted was to cut 600 million euros per year in pensions. That's what was on the show. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] What the PSD does not say is that it wanted that reform that was missing, that Passos Coelho always remembered, that it was to cut the costs of work, and we do not forget that lowering the value of work was always the policy of PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u108	When they talk about public services they forget to say that their plan was no longer investment in school or in health, it was, yes, the concession to private, massive, than it is of all... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... and thus deny the answer that a democratic state needs to give, which is universal, that must be for all and for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u110	The PSD and CDS plan was always and only privatization, precariousness and lowering work income. If they are upset today, it is because they know that in the years of the PSD/CDS government, EUR 3600 million was withdrawn from the workers and that the capital has gained more than EUR 2600 million at work. [[Congratulations from BE.]] What we do not forgive is that we fight to balance the balance on behalf of those who work, those who work, those who want to work in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u112	Do not worry about the positions of the Left Block, because we are quite comfortable with them and we know well what we are doing here and never, never, hide our program, unlike what the right does every day. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But, Prime Minister, there are other differences we have and the 15-year debates are for that. This is not the first time that we have differences on health and on PPPs (public-private partnerships) in health. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u113	There is a new divergence that we have in relation to a project for, we found out, the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge. The National Institute Ricardo Jorge is the National Institute of Reference in Public Health, strategically, which assesses the quality of all health institutions in our country. There is a Commission for Public Health Reform of which the Order of Doctors, the National Federation of Doctors (FNAM ) and the National Association of Public Health Physicians for knowing that the possibility of dividing the Instituto Ricardo Jorge into two institutes is being studied, not knowing what happens on the part of the Port, where the tests are done for all children in this country, only that the part of Lisbon will be delivered, through the New University of Lisbon, to a health consortium with the Mello Group. Mr. Prime Minister, it would be a mistake, and it is a mistake, that you can still stop, and my question is whether you will avoid it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u114	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u115	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I will start with the end because it is easier. The National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge will continue to be a laboratory protected by the Ministry of Health and the public sector. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education have been working in order to extend the resources available to the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge through access to Community funds in the field of science, through partnerships between the Ricardo Jorge Institute and the New University of Lisbon, on the one hand, and the University of Porto, on the other. We are not aware of any partnership with the Mello Group but simply the link between this state laboratory and two universities in order to have more critical mass to be able to compete with Horizon 2020 programmes. This is what we know and that is what will enable us to continue to strengthen the activity of Ricardo Jorge Institute. As for the principle, it is also relatively simple: it is known — in fact, publicly at the time when it was approved — my own divergence with the budget treaty, but it has also always said that, being in force, we must comply with it. What is contained in the Stability Programme has no novelty, simply reflects the fulfilment of a treaty that we will comply with as long as it exists, a day that is revised, and we hope that it will be revised, we will be able to evolve with respect to what we have to comply with. There is something that has no contradiction or tension, even if sometimes it is difficult, that is to reconcile these rules with the commitments we have made, particularly with the Left Block. In 2016, contrary to what the PSD said, it was possible to meet both commitments. In 2017, again, we demonstrated in the State Budget that both commitments could be met. And we will do the same in 2018, in 2019 and, if it is mutual will, we can continue to do so also in 2020 and subsequent years. For now we will meet in 2017, in 2018 and in 2019 and we will fulfill it without any novelty. What we have agreed on on the review of steps is what we will have to do. What we have agreed on in terms of unlocking careers is what we will have to do. What we have agreed on in advance reforms is what we will have to do. As we have always found solutions to problems that are difficult, because we often know that there is obviously this tension. What have we done so far and successfully? It is, by identifying the problems, in a positive and constructive way, that we find solutions and ways to reconcile that. For our part, it is what we will continue to do, for your part, that is what we will continue to do, and thus we will comply with what we undertake to do. On our part, tell us, we will fulfill everything we agreed to with the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u116	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u117	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am sure that we will continue a work that is certainly difficult, but you also know that the Left Block does not look back to difficulties. But I want to go back to the National Institute of Health Dr. Ricardo Jorge to tell him that, then, it is good that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Science really clarify all the health partners of what is at stake, because there is a written document, which was delivered, to think about the future of the National Institute Ricardo Jorge and which contradicts the idea that Mr. Prime Minister has now given and that seems to rest us in part. So let us be clear, because what is said is that, on the part of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, there would be a member of the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge to the health consortium to be created at the New University of Lisbon. Now, this consortium exists, it's called "Tagus TANK" and it's from the Mello Group, and this is absolutely unacceptable. On the other hand, this document also provides for an adequacy of resources that has to do with the new organizational and programmatic configuration that will be given to the National Institute Ricardo Jorge. Now, if we're talking about research funds, maybe we don't need to move so much in the organization of Ricardo Jorge Institute. And, therefore, it would certainly be good to clarify this matter, because they are not the Order of Doctors, the FNAM (National Medical Federation) and the National Association of Public Health Physicians (ANMSP ) who are alarmists, the Ricardo Jorge Institute is very important for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u118	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u119	I'm almost done, Mr. President. The private sector of health has grown on account of public funds and public support. at this time, there are already more private hospitals than public hospitals in the country, live to a large extent of public resources and are not a guarantee of the universality that this State has to give to its entire population, and that is why this matter is surely important.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u120	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u121	Mr President, I would ask for two seconds, with the tolerance given to the other parties, to deal briefly with another issue. We have the precariousness on the table, we have agreement on essential matters, the projects are in Parliament, the public door is ready and discussed, meeting deadlines is also essential to the expectations that a whole population has to see its work relationship finally remain within legality, because, let us not deceive ourselves, precariousness is almost always abuse and illegality. Finally, tomorrow we will discuss here the shiftwork, and two in every 10 workers in Portugal, of all sectors, are already working on shifts, almost always with low wages and no collective hiring, i.e., without basic mechanisms to protect their health and the reconciliation of family and personal life.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u122	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u123	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it would be good for the Government to give the signal that it understands the need to move forward in this protection of workers who have the heavier hours in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u124	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u125	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, with regard to the National Institute Ricardo Jorge, there is no doubt about what Mr. Minister of Science and Mr. Secretary of State of Health have just said, and that is not what they said. I believe that there must be confusion, because there is a consortium that has been formed, in fact stimulated by the Municipality of Lisbon a few years ago, and that has involved several institutions, in order to be able to compete with a KIC (Knowledge Innovation Community ) of the European Institute for Innovation and Technology ( EIT ) in the field of health sciences. That must be the consortium it refers to. Either way, Mr. Minister of Science or Mr. Secretary of State of Health has heard your message well and you will convey the message so that everything is clear. Now, the Institute will not be privatized, nor will it have partnerships with privates, it will continue to be strengthened and have better conditions to function. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u126	You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u127	Mr President, Prime Minister, this morning in Parliament at the hearing in the Health Committee, there was once again a situation on debts in the health sector. I know that the government likes to talk more about deficit than debt, but unfortunately, the lowest deficit in democracy, as you like to plead for the second time, because the first time they mentioned it was in 2008, home and row with the highest debt of democracy at that time and now too unfortunately. We already knew that the debt of EPE hospitals (Business Public Entities), which last year had grown at the ratio of 30 million / month, grew in the first two months of this year at the ratio of 63 million / month. But what we learned this morning, Prime Minister, and on this I wanted to ask you, is that right now, what hospitals are doing is asking companies for medical devices, for registration, without order note and therefore without even generating a contract or a debt, and this is going to run until these devices are used, and in many cases they are consumable, and only after that does the so-called order note and payment appear. I ask you, Prime Minister, if you are aware of this situation and what is the amount of the debt that is thus hidden and ignored in the SNS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u128	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u129	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I thank you for your questions. In fact, we also have a duty to talk about the deficit, because we are subject to our obligations. And it is, moreover, with satisfaction that I tell you that the data of the implementation of the first three months of this year, which show that the deficit, this year, has fallen more than EUR 290 million in relation to the same period last year... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that the primary surplus increased by EUR 280 million compared to 1. Last year's quarter. Therefore, you can rest assured that this year too the deficit is on its way, although we are fulfilling the commitments we have made with the Portuguese, with the Greens, with the PCP and with the Left Block, we have fully returned the public service salaries, we have returned 35 hours of work in the Public Administration, we have returned the cuts in pensions, we have reduced the tax burden and we continue to reduce the deficit. Yes, we are fulfilling all the commitments we have made! And this is how we will also do about health debts, which this year, compared to last year, are at an identical level... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ...and we will arrive at the end of the year in the same way. It is true that, in February, there was an abnormal increase in credit notes, but in March, they have already resumed normality and we will arrive at the end of the year in normality, as we did last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u130	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u131	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I ask you about debt and health debts and Mr Prime Minister responds to me with a deficit. So I have to ask again the question: what is the amount of the debts in health at the moment, and what is the amount of those debts that are not even reported, which do not even have a commission note, but, in fact, are claims and hidden 'under the carpet'? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Antonio Leitão Amaro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u132	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u133	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, you have already had the opportunity to hear from the Commission this morning the officials of the Ministry of Health, who gave you all the detailed information. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u134	I realize you don't like listening to the aggregated information. For several months, he asked me here about the interest in debt, but as now the interest has fallen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u135	No, no! We're still tall!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u136	... stop asking me about the debt interest; for a year he asked me about the deficit, as the deficit improved, he stopped asking me about the deficit;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u137	I'll be right there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u138	... now, ask me about the debt, but soon you will also stop asking me about the debt, because debt will also start to drop. In fact, it has already lowered the net debt,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... has already raised the primary balance and will therefore also reduce the gross debt. Therefore, honourable Member, be assured that you will also be left without questions on this subject and will go to other subjects of greater interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u139	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u140	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I take good note that you do not know how to respond and therefore advised you - in fact, to find out, because this morning whoever was here was the creditors,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u141	... to complain precisely of a government that does not pay what it owes and, more so, does not even let them follow the order notes, requires that there be appropriations and only then do the order notes appear. So, Prime Minister, I suggest that you understand this situation...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u142	Stay calm!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u143	...and be quiet, because, for my part, I am very quiet but very concerned. As always, I see a serious note of irresponsibility from the Prime Minister when, in fact, he does not consider anything important and he deals with everything with a great deal of lightness. And now, last year, it was the last month of the year that paid accumulated health debts with EUR 400 million that appeared in an extraordinary revenue; and, therefore, let's see what is the extraordinary revenue this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u145	But, Prime Minister, on issues relating to the deficit, of course, I would like to ask you a question on another subject, which has to do with the area of public expenditure and, in this case, transport. Here too, in this House 15 days ago, we had the opportunity to hear the regulator, the Mobility and Transport Authority, who complained that he had 30 %, I repeat, 30 % of his captive budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u147	My question is whether Mr. Prime Minister understands that 30 % of seizures in this area are adjusted for the Authority which controls 29 000 companies throughout the country to ensure the proper implementation of quality public service in this area. And now I ask you what the value of the captivating of transport companies is. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u148	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u149	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, I will also add that the last paragraph of the statement on implementation in these first three months is the following : « Non-financial debt in public administrations — expenditure without the corresponding payment, including late payments », decreased by EUR 365 million compared to the same period of 2016, with the late payment stock falling by EUR 42 million ». [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u150	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u151	This means that debt, payment delays are reducing and, therefore, Mrs Deputy, let us keep ourselves serene. The only thing I can say about captivating is that, I assure you, surely, all those responsible for the Public Administration, starting by myself, with regard to the budget of my own office, we would like not to have our budgets captured by 30%. It follows that capitulation is an essential element in ensuring sound budgetary management,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] ...to ensure that the budget is managed throughout the year, taking into account the evolution of revenue and the evolution of expenditure, in order to prevent surprises and to ensure that at the end of the year we will meet the budgetary targets we proposed. The pilgrimage idea that often exists in less informed people, but that is certainly not shared by someone who has vast governmental experience, such as the honourable Member, is that the Budget has an initial moment, which is that of approval, and a final moment, which is that of account. Don't! The most important part of the budget year is neither the approval of the budget nor the audit of the account, it is the day-to-day implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u152	Well, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u153	And that is why it is essential that capitulations exist, as always existed and will always exist. And on the day that the seizures do not exist, I can assure you absolutely that there will be no proper budgetary implementation. Therefore, it is necessary that they exist and the disappointments are being made according to the needs, according to the evolution of the revenue, because when a budget is made we work with forecasts and what matters to us are the results we have to present to the country at the end of implementation. For this, it is necessary to measure daily, in order not to take a step longer than the leg. That is also why it is very good to maintain 30 % of the captives in this Regulatory Authority and throughout the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u154	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u155	Mr President, Prime Minister, I thank you very much for this confession which you have made here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u156	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u157	The Prime Minister has just assumed that, in fact, nothing he intends to do in the State budget is actually to comply with.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u159	We have learned that all the expenditure planned for schools, hospitals, public transport, investments to be made—and for some reason last year the cut was 10 % — in fact, it must all be seen as x-20 % or x-30 % or whatever. Therefore, it is good that Mr. Prime Minister assumes clearly that, in fact, seizures turn into cuts, blind cuts, frozen expenses, which is the opposite of what you said when you were in opposition...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u160	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u161	... and when it claimed more public investment, more quality in services, more investment in transport. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, you are left with this statement, which I have said, i.e., it does not matter the moment of approval — perhaps, that is why your partners approve so easily,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... what really matters is, then, to give the floor for the unspoken saying and, with the captivating, with the scissors of Mr. Minister for Finance, to end up doing nothing of what is planned. But tell it honestly, say it clearly and say it here! [[CDS-PP applause.]] So what I know is that the funds that are planned for transport, where there has been enormous degradation, and you wanted to keep transport in the public sector, supposedly for things to go better, will not happen. And they will not happen, for example, in the metropolitan of Lisbon, with the brutal captivitys,... [[Protests of BE and MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... with the investments that are not made, with the degradation that we witness every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u162	There are crashing stairwells!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u163	But, Prime Minister, about how you reached the deficit we already realized, it was disparaging everything you committed to. [[PS protests.]] Now, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you one more question and, in this case, it also has to do with your word and honor your word. [[PS protests.]] On 12 February 2016, Prime Minister, on fuel tax, said: « What we wanted was to have fiscal neutrality for taxpayers but also for the state ». My question is whether you will return the EUR 250 million that has removed the taxpayer's purse and thus honour your word of fiscal neutrality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u164	When I was in the government I wasn't discussing this in the Council of Ministers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u165	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I now begin to realize why, for four years, VV. Ex.s have never been able to fulfill any budget, every year they had to have at least one corrective budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u167	We did what we promised! We were transparent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u168	...and so they never managed to meet the deficit they proposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u169	We do what we promise!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u170	And, Mrs. Member, on top of it, with a lot of captivating, because she may not have given it, but she also had captivating...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u171	I disbarred them! We've been transparent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u172	...and they were also met, which was not fulfilled were the budgetary results. As regards the tax on petroleum products last year, we made sure of what we had said, which was the periodic review based on the evolution of the price of oil and VAT. This was accomplished, that's what we did in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u173	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u174	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there is indeed a word that separates us: transparency! [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is that when, eventually, we cannot do everything that was planned, we make corrective budgets, so that things can be clear and transparent; you freeze, cut, say that payments are down late, because they don't even accept order notes, spend first and put the expenditure under the carpet.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u175	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u176	That's how you treat them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u177	Malabarisms!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u178	It's a lack of transparency! Malabarisms and handicrafts! We're already tired and we know where it took us! But, Prime Minister, I have something else to say to you: in fact, I spent the whole year fighting to decapitate money, but I could. That is why I did not lack the word, which is why I knew that the Community funds were all executed. All of them! All of them, and more of them! [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is why there was a sector to invest as never, which you cannot do, because you have no respect for the word given. And once again, I note that Mr Prime Minister will not respect the word on tax neutrality on fuel taxes. You have raised, against your word, EUR 250 million from the taxpayer's purse and, unfortunately, we already realize that this word will certainly not be honest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u179	Socialism at its best!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u180	... already went to the trash can, you don't want to know what you said or what you stopped saying in this matter. Now, Prime Minister, to conclude, I have one last question that I would like to ask you, but before that, I would like to say to you that I note, not with any surprise but a pleasure, that Mr Prime Minister has already responded to the Socialist Party's bench as Prime Minister and Secretary-General of the Socialist Party on housing. So when I ask you about the government's willingness to work on this or that matter, I hope you have the same kind of answer. And it is good that you have made that correction, because, in terms of housing, in fact, what you have done as President of the Chamber of Lisbon leaves much, very much to be desired...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u181	It'll be like this until October!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u182	...and, therefore, it is good for you now to help the Socialist Party in matters of basic law for housing. But the last question I had to ask you has to do with asset revaluation. One month ago, I asked a question in this House that did not have an answer: What is the overall amount of the tax ruling on asset revaluation? We know that EDP has either cashed or saved EUR 174 million, so I want to know how many companies have resorted to this mechanism and what was the total tax credit. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Antonio Leitão Amaro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u183	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u184	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristos, telegraphically, because I already have very little time, firstly, I would like to inform the honourable Member that during the four years when you were Minister, there was never less than EUR 500 million of captivating per year, I repeat, never less than EUR 500 million, to add up to the rectification and failure, always every year, in terms of deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, Mrs Deputies, I just want to tell you that, as you well know, because it is an illustrious jurist, with no assets, there is no obligation to pay. So, if the revaluation turns out that there are no assets there is no delete, there is only the payment that was due... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u185	...and not a payment that would be undue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u186	Call him whatever you want, but he's a tax collector!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u187	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u188	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in view of what we had to do, we have done a lot — but very much — about what the PSD and the CDS said it was unthinkable or impossible to do to justify the Portuguese people who had to continue those absurd cuts, even to do more and move to a logic, to a fury of huge privatization, because the State was not able to cope with all the public services provided to the Portuguese. Fortunately, Mr Prime Minister, this logic has been put aside, by the Portuguese will, which gave a majority of Members in the Assembly of the Republic to parties that had justly committed themselves to a change and an reversal of these policies. So we have already returned salaries, we have already frozen pensions, we have already increased social support, we have already rejected 35 hours in public service, and much more is to be done. The Prime Minister has identified three questions on which we have to hang our sleeves and start working, particularly in the reformulation of the IRS steps, in the non-criminalization of long-contributory careers and in the defrosting of the impossibility of progression in careers. It is clear that we must fight a lot on this path, but it is also clear that we must put a key and fundamental word in our action: development. We have to work and we are now starting from another starting point to develop, to generate other levels of development in the country. Well, the health and education sectors are crucial in this matter. Mr. Prime Minister had committed himself to the Portuguese that in 2017 everyone would have a family doctor. I would like to reaffirm that commitment, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u189	And next year he'll say the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u190	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u191	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, as I have said, we have done a lot, and we will continue to do what we are committed to. The health sector is particularly demanding and the deficiencies were many. Among doctors, nurses and auxiliary staff were hired last year for the National Health Service over 4000. [[The PSD member Miguel Santos' laughs.]] There was no sector where the effort had been so great. Only 1400 doctors were hired; 55 family health units were opened; and more than 600 continuous care beds were created. Our goal is very clear: that all Portuguese have a family doctor. It is in this sense that we are working, commitment, that which we will also fulfill. Step by step we will comply, as we have been doing. And that is an effort that will be continued. It's not easy, but it's the necessary effort. We have no doubt that the aim of the deficit is very important, but it is instrumental in what is essential. And what is essential are Portuguese and Portuguese and, among the various needs they have, and which are many — housing, education... — there is one that is central and transversal to all generations: that of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u192	And the housing too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u193	This is an investment that we must continue to make and we know well that, as far as rationalization is concerned, there are human resources that are essential and that we must strengthen. And we'll continue to make that reinforcement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u194	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u195	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, yes, there are issues and sectors that are fundamental to Portuguese. And the commitment we have made — and that the Greens also wanted to introduce into the Joint Position that we have signed with the Socialist Party — is that it is essential that a family doctor for all Portuguese people. We know the deficiencies, the difficulty in making a consultation, the difficulty of having access to the fundamental right to health, constitutionally consecrated. Working for this goal is fundamental. Mr Prime Minister has set a time limit for such compliance and that time limit must be met. Mr Prime Minister, in fact the deficit and the budget treaty have been a fundamental and explicit obstacle to our country's development process. There are answers that have to be given and, as we have already stated at other times, we are in the deficit. But, Prime Minister, this work of 'knocking' the numbers even more than Brussels requires the Portuguese not to thank. It is a message that the Greens leave to the Prime Minister — indeed, we have already done so at other times — and I think it is essential to take into account that we should work for people rather than numbers. With regard to development, there is another key sector: territorial cohesion and the fight against regional asymmetries. Mr Prime Minister, see if the Greens are not right in this reasoning—and I think that the country has already promoted this debate in the most various ways: there is a medium-term of reflection, power, intervention, which fails in our country...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u196	I wanted to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u197	... and regionalization is a decisive response to, precisely, giving rise to the necessary responses in the context of our country's development, answers, these, which are not the responsibility of the government or the local municipal authority, but rather to the regional. And that failure, Prime Minister, we cannot extend it for much longer. Mr Prime Minister, is it not true that regionalization would be a fundamental part and instrument to promote this development?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u198	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u199	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I was one of those who defended regionalization, who campaigned for regionalization and today thinks no different from what I thought at the time the referendum was made. I believe that this is not the right time, nor are there any political conditions for this issue to be resumed in a way that does not cause us to repeat errors of assessment that have made us rush 20 years ago. I think we should all learn from the lessons and I still haven't learned the trauma I had with the result of this rehab.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u200	Trauma? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u201	I think what is essential to understand is that the path should be made in a consolidated way. Today, many of those who, at the time, have even been opposed are in favor and I know no one who, then, has been in favour and today is against. It is certainly a path that will one day be made, even because, as Mr.António Filipe reminded us of these days, we are forced by the Constitution itself. I do not believe that it is within the framework of this Parliament — I think it is not — it would be a mistake that we would be costly if we were to rush into that step, I understand that there are ways to go. What is contained in the Government Programme is a very important step towards gaining a scale that improves the efficiency of public policies: allowing once and for all the coordination and regional development committees to cease being government dependent services and to be able to have a legitimacy attributed by the authorities of their region.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u202	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u203	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I believe that this is a very important step that will allow democratic legitimacy, approach the municipalities of the regions, scale public policies—which have to be scaled, beyond the municipalities and the CIM(intermunicipal communities)—and consolidate a model that, in the future, when it is found that there is sufficient national consensus to justify it, can allow the debate on regionalization to be reopened. Honestly, I do not recommend to anyone who opens it early, prematurely, in a hasty manner, because we would seriously run the risk of having the same result as we had 20 years ago and those who, like me, believe in regionalization certainly do not want to repeat the mistakes that have been made 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u204	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u205	I think, at the very moment, we'll be there...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u206	And when's the moment?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u207	I wish I could have divine powers, but I don't.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u208	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u209	One thing I know: in this legislature, it's not, of course. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u210	To put questions, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, before the question we have to put to you, I would like to congratulate the Government because today there is a legislative cycle with the publication of the portal regulating the law prohibiting the slaughter of animals as a form of population control. From today on, those camera presidents who are refusing to apply the law and who don't like animals have less an excuse not to follow the Portuguese will. On the subject of today's debate, Mr Prime Minister, according to recent data from the Portuguese Environment Agency, and after a reduction path, Portugal had a significant increase of 7 % of greenhouse gas emissions. The reasons are several, but the main one is a 19th-century technology that we still have in our country: the production of electricity from coal burning, particularly in the Sines and Pego plants, responsible for these two plants, by 20% of the country's emissions. The increase in production of these coal plants between 2014 and 2015 results in an increase in emissions in the electricity sector by 29 %. No Government has so far shown any concern or interest in resolving this serious problem in the energy sector. Mr Prime Minister, the economy cannot be decarbonised without ‘disbursing’ the electrical system. I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister three questions, which I have already put to the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure during the national debate on reforms and which have not been answered. These are the following: until Portugal continues to produce electricity from coal burning? How long will the government continue to grant these industries privileges, exempting them from paying taxes on petroleum products? For when is the development of the economic decarbonisation plan announced by the Government for this year, 2017?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u212	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u213	Mr President, Mr André Silva, first of all, I would like to say that it is indeed a civilizational objective of the greatest importance to end the policy of slaughtering animals in cans, cats, or animal houses, as I would prefer — from a municipal point of view. Secondly, I must say that we are committed and we will meet our aim of decarbonisation, and we well know that decarbonisation will go through « decoupling ». However, we believe that this objective must be compatible with the needs to contain the cost of energy, namely the energy that is borne by families and businesses. We cannot close coal plants without clean alternative terms, with competitive conditions. We have been changing the policy on renewable energy in order to be able to allocate new power plants based on solar energy, without the costs of the first generation power plants. Only what we've fired over the past year has enabled us to increase electricity production by 250 MW, without having to pay the counterparties that were provided for in previous contracts, resulting in savings of around EUR 163 million. This is the way we must go on: competitive renewable energy; renewable energy that does not have subsidised; renewable energy that enables us to sustain a clean energy policy that enables us to achieve the objectives that we commit to — with the country and internationally — to meet, without this being an added cost.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u214	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u215	I will now finish, Mr President. As regards the change in CMECs (costs for maintaining the contractual balance), as you know, there is a timetable to finish. in one of the main plants, they end precisely this year and therefore the power plant will begin to compete under market conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u216	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the first item on the agenda is thus closed. Before we move on to the second point, I will give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce legislative initiatives, however admitted. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, gave in, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 507 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Defence of transparency and integrity in sports competitions ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 508 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work system ( CFP ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 817 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Immediate construction of IC35, between Penafiel and Entre-os-Rios ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 818 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the follow-up of the urgent process of replacement of the road of access to El Granado ( Province of Huelva, Spain ), which connects Portugal through the bridge over the river Chança near the town of Pomarão, in the municipality of Mértola ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 819 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of the Fortaleza de Juromenha, municipality of Alandroal, in the List of Real Estates which integrates the REVIVE ( PSD ) Programme, which falls to 6. the Commission, 820 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure full access to the right of participation of medicinal products ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 821 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Measures to increase vaccination coverage in Portugal ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 822 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government publish a report on the assessment of the Portuguese refugee policy ( BE ), which is lower than 1. the Commission, and 823 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish the timetable for the specific institution of the administrative regions during the year 2019, which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u218	Mrs. Members, we will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is part of the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). the Act of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Construction Process. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the first European Council meeting in an extraordinary format to 27 to adopt guidelines for the Brexit negotiations. As you know, these proposals for guidance have been classified and therefore have not been officially disclosed, despite some links that have existed. So I am not going to talk about this, I will focus on describing the process and stressing what I find essential from the Portuguese point of view. The adoption of these guidelines is a first step towards the first phase of these negotiations. There will be a second stage which will be the subject of a new version of the guidelines. Following the adoption next Saturday, the European Commission will submit on 3 May the negotiating directives for this first phase with a view to ensuring an orderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union, focusing, above all, on matters relating to citizens, the financial agreement, the issue of borders and various matters of a legal and administrative nature. Even in May, the Council should adopt these directives, authorising the Commission to open the negotiations, which should start in early June and extend for a maximum of 18 months, so as to allow time for the European Parliament and the British Parliament to adopt the agreement within two years, provided for in the Treaty. With regard to the draft guidelines, it has been presented by the President of the Council on 31 March and has since been under consideration by the 27 Member States and has so far met with a broad consensus and has also been the subject of support by the European Parliament and the Commission. With regard to Portugal, we consider these guidelines balanced and safeguard the main interests of the Union and our country. We consider it a priority to focus on what is essential, that is, on the question of citizens. On this issue, we believe that it is necessary to protect them in different dimensions, particularly with regard to residence rights and social rights. From that point of view, we would like to see the moment considered to cover citizens correspond to the time when the United Kingdom of the European Union departed. This is because we understand that as long as we are a member of the European Union, the United Kingdom is subject to its obligations, and all European citizens residing there are subject to the same rights and duties as any other citizen in any other part of the territory of the Union. That will therefore be our priority and we will focus our attention there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u220	For an intervention, you now have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u221	Mr President, at this stage of the process at which we are, the one from the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, the main enemy, the main obstacle to us is uncertainty and indefinition. Uncertainty and indefinition that is already affecting tens or hundreds of thousands of people; uncertainty and indefinition that is already causing an economic impasse in relation to the behaviour that companies want to have — those that are in the United Kingdom and those who are outside. Therefore, the most crucial objective of these guidelines is precisely to contribute to reducing this uncertainty and indefinition. in this sense, for the PSD, the priority of priorities concerns the rights of Portuguese and other citizens of the European Union who went to work and live for the United Kingdom. The Portuguese community is very significant in the United Kingdom. Even in 2016, tens of thousands of Portuguese continued to emigrate to the United Kingdom. Knowing that this affects all the citizens of the European Union who are living there and working, particularly the Portuguese, it is important to realize that the Portuguese Parliament also represents these Portuguese people and that we cannot accept that the United Kingdom will make the rights to assist these Portuguese citizens a negotiating weapon at this long table. contrary to the news we are receiving from the United Kingdom and which are worrying, it is necessary to ensure that the British Government cannot continue to discourage, in addition to the bureaucratic obstacles that it is creating in the lives of tens or hundreds of thousands of people, applications to regularize the candidacy for permanent residence rights in the United Kingdom. It is now that the British Government has decided to take a step forward and has actively begun to discourage these requests. These British Government measures are not acceptable. The British Government's desire to achieve reciprocity in the treatment that the Member States of the European Union will give their residents in these States is legitimate and reasonable. from the PSD, we are available to accelerate the process, along with our European partners, of granting, clarifying and stabilising the rights of British citizens at our borders and in the other Member States. Another very important point and that it is not acceptable for the British Government to choose to use as a negotiating weapon concerns defence and security cooperation. We know that the United Kingdom is a very important partner in the establishment of internal security and defence activities, but we also know that, for the effectiveness of all these operations, it is crucial that there is some certainty, some definition and trust between the institutions so that the joint responses to these challenges are minimally effective. Nor can we accept that this matter is treated in conditional terms and as a negotiating weapon. Cooperation between the United Kingdom and the European Union on defence and security is also essential. A third priority which is important to clarify at the beginning of the negotiations concerns the financial commitments of the United Kingdom with the European Union. Until the end of the current multiannual financial framework and other contingent and financial responsibilities which the United Kingdom has, we are in favour of the United Kingdom having to take on, as it has assumed when it was a full-fledged partner of the European Union. There will certainly be a complex and difficult discussion for us in Portugal and for our partners after 2020 when the United Kingdom abandons the European Union and, therefore, we will lose the UK's very significant net contribution to the European Budget. With regard to the continuation of these negotiations and in order to carry out this very difficult process, it is an illusion that we will be able to carry it out well without a clear idea of the Europe we are and of the Europe we want to be. The first step in having this clear idea of Europe that we want to be concerned not only with the desire to reform the European institutions, but also with not being intimidated by the anti-European political extremisms of the left and right. We see, from what is happening in France, that often the neutralitys that are assumed by an extremism on one side of the spectrum are only effective affinityes with the other endremism of the opposite pole. We cannot let ourselves be intimidated, nor can we disguise those presumed neutralitys. on the side of a process as tough and as complex as this and other political acts of the same magnitude, we must not forget what European values underpin the Europe we want: the values of political democracy, the values of the regime of freedoms, the values of a social market economy. In the Portuguese internal political debate, we need to have a clear idea of what divides us between extremist forces — in our case, on the left—, anti-Europeans who promote an open conflict and war against these values and the other political forces that are in favour of a Europe that is in line with these values. The minimum requirement for the Government of the Portuguese Republic is that it should not be ambiguous in this political confrontation, in this debate of our time, which is the great European debate of our time. It cannot be the ambiguities of the circumstances that this debate becomes more confusing. This applies to Portugal, France or any other Member State. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u222	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u223	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : The European Council on 29 April will be extraordinary and will focus on adopting guidelines for post-Brexit negotiation. in this context, there is a first conclusion that we can draw: the positions on both sides have so far been confusing and, at some times, even contradictory, printing a scenario of increasing uncertainty, particularly for the thousands of people who reside, work and study in the United Kingdom. According to the information provided by the Portuguese Government, including within the parliamentary committee, these negotiations would have two key priorities: an agreement on security and defence, on the one hand, and the defence of citizens' rights, on the other. We cannot fail to note that these priorities are contradictory in their objective. If the first of these priorities is a side-by-side shot at responding to the main problems, the second one, by analyzing the ongoing debate, cannot be taken seriously. Since the beginning, Brexit has been instrumentalized to inciting the discourse of fear and hatred to the other, to which it comes from outside, and also to the political survival of a ruling elite that is moving more and more to the right. Each attempt to condition the free democratic choice, European institutions or representatives more repel the citizens and blow up Brexit. The European Union is an increasingly difficult project to defend, even against the worst reasons. The British people have decided to leave and since Article 50 has been activated. that of the Treaty of Lisbon, we have seen complete incongruence in the negotiating positions. An agreement which benefits both sides is now urgently needed and an agreement is now needed that affirms the power of the European Union vis-à-vis the United Kingdom. Now an agreement is needed to guarantee the four freedom of movement, and no less than that, an agreement is needed which is subject to the United Kingdom's border requirements. Mr Prime Minister, we need to put priorities in the right place and end this absolute confusion. First of all, they really have to be people. What kind of rights will there be for the nearly 3 million Community citizens in the United Kingdom? What will happen to the Portuguese and Portuguese living in the United Kingdom? These are the first questions, but they must also be the first concerns in the negotiators' minds. We know the will of the United Kingdom and the complications it has created. You will certainly know, Mr Prime Minister, that, sensibly since the referendum, the request for residence obliges the completion of 85 pages in a very bureaucratic process.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u224	An abuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u225	Therefore, this is a practice of who is turning emigrants into the main factor of negotiation blackmail, and this is unacceptable. But Europe has said little or almost nothing. For example, does the European Union accept the position of Theresa May to temporarily close the borders? Another essential question is not answered in this process. These are the fundamental concerns that do not combine with political play and power. When we check the priorities of the Commission, we realize that again the priority is given to militarism. When we talk about security and defence, we know that what is in the mind of the European Commissioners and Commissioners is to use the British Armed Forces to continue building walls and barriers to refugees. Because, Prime Minister, we do not forget the agreement with Turkey and the hypocrisy and inhumanity it represents and the supposed European values. What is done of concern to people when the European Commission, the Council and the ECB have been nothing but the foremen of austerity and blackmail about the peoples? I therefore ask you, Prime Minister — and speaking in European Union values — what will be the position of the Portuguese Government: silence before an agreement that puts weapons and repression at the centre or concrete action so that people and their rights are at the heart of a future agreement? The Portuguese and Portuguese who live in the United Kingdom want the right answer, Prime Minister, and the Europeans can no longer take the wrong answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u226	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u227	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The next Extraordinary European Council will be the first to meet after a formal and effective request for departure from the United Kingdom. We know that the process of leaving a Member State of the European Union is something that has never been attempted. in this sense, it is something that has no history, it has no precedent. We do not have a map of procedures to follow and we all realize that it will be a very complex, long process that will take about two years to negotiate. in this sense, the questions I want to ask are about the negotiation process itself. I would like to understand what the Portuguese Government wants to do in relation to defending the protection of Portuguese interests during this process. We know that we have a community that must be about half a million Portuguese, which are currently in the United Kingdom and we are very concerned that there is currently a wave of xenophobia, racism, protectionism, incomprehensiveness about foreigners, and that alien is the European itself. We even know recent attacks, violent crimes, non-English communities, and that concerns us very much. We are also very concerned about what the British authorities are currently doing in relation to applications for residence authorisation, requests that have 85 pages of questions and answers, certainly dealing with obstacles to the presence of a group of communities in which Portuguese is also included. On this matter, what we have heard most importantly from the Government was the Secretary of State of the Communities to advise Portuguese people living in the United Kingdom to ask for dual nationality. It seems to me that the only thing the Portuguese Government has to say to these people is that the best thing to protect their interests is to go to the British authorities and ask for another nationality, in addition to Portuguese. Mr Prime Minister, the first question I would like to ask is whether this position is supported, if your official position is this, by supporting a member of the Government who advises the Portuguese to ask for dual nationality, or if, on the contrary, what Mr Prime Minister and the Government of Portugal are going to defend is that the communities must be respected. We must ensure respect for all Community rules while the United Kingdom is in the European Union. The second question concerns some 3000 Portuguese companies currently exporting to the United Kingdom. I know that the government has recently appointed a Mission Structure to try to capture investment during the Brexit process. In fact, we have already called this Mission Structure to Parliament, because we want to ask what is its strategy, what goals and what means it has, but we will keep this debate for the right time. at this time, I wanted to ask what the Portuguese Government is doing to support companies that continue to export to the United Kingdom and that can certainly be caught in this turbulence that is Brexit. We know that the Directorate-General for European Affairs and the AICEP itself ( Investment and Foreign Trade Agency of Portugal ) have done a set of studies on the impacts that Brexit has on Portuguese companies, we have already asked the Government for these studies and we have not yet received them, so I would like to understand what the Portuguese Government has to say to these companies. The third question has to do with the Atlantic dimension of Europe and Portugal's position in this Atlantic dimension, because, of course, the Atlantic is a great design for us. Very recently, three Heads of Government — Ireland, the Netherlands and Denmark — met to prepare a common strategy on the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union and these three countries met precisely because they had a very relevant Atlantic presence. I'd like to ask what evaluation you do at this meeting. contrary to the government, we are not particular supporters of summits and « summits » — this government has already inaugurated the process of the various summits and « summits », but I would like to ask whether the Portuguese Government will or will not articulate an Atlantic strategy for Brexit, outside the United Kingdom of the European Union. Since I still have time, I ask you the fourth question, which has to do with the following: we know that at least two European agencies are currently based in the United Kingdom and are leaving. One of them is the European Medicines Agency. The Portuguese Government has already publicly indicated that it would like this Agency to be able to come to Portugal. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, what we are actually doing in this regard. Denmark, Ireland, Italy, Sweden also publicly indicated this intention, but they did a little more. Sweden, for example, has launched an effective task force to try to take this Agency to the country itself, launched a campaign on social networks with an electronic site and currently has a special envoy in Brussels to try to negotiate this transfer from the Agency to the country itself. Portugal has publicly indicated this intention, so I would like you to tell me what that means and what the Portuguese Government is going to do on this dossier. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u228	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : The exit process of the United Kingdom of the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit, is a demonstration factor of the crisis of the European Union, and as other demonstration factors of the same fact is being instrumentalized not only by a greater deepening of the process of European capitalist integration but also by a greater concentration of power in the directory of European powers. at the same time, this negotiating process is being transformed into a real attack on the rights of the British people, which, in the most various forms and in the most diverse senses, has been targeted with a way of pressure towards the threat of loss of social and labor rights, loss of a set of living and working conditions that are necessarily a cause of concern to the British people and that we cannot accept as form of expression that are a process of blackmail and conditioning of the British people. Obviously the way must be different, that of respecting the will of the British people in a process that should not be used to overthrow this will and this sovereign decision taken by the British people and in which it is central to the need to safeguard not only the interests of Portugal in a framework of historical bilateral relations between the two States but also, of course, the rights of Portuguese citizens residing and working in the United Kingdom. Mr Prime Minister, a relevant aspect in this debate — and we have also heard today during the debate by Mr Miguel Morgado — is the attempt to put the entire challenge to the European Union in the same bag of nationalism and extreme right, which we cannot of course accept. Moreover, this comparison that Mr. Miguel Morgano has sought to make between the positions that take on those who are heirs of fascism and the positions of those who are heirs of whom he fought fascism during the 20th century, in fact, can only serve to whiteen the positions of the extreme right, to seek to alleviate the suffering and martyrdom that fascism caused by the 20th century to the European peoples. Obviously, this is a prospect that we cannot accept. Moreover, Mr. Prime Minister, we believe that Brexit is neither nationalism nor extreme right. Closing this decision by the British people in this conclusion and confusing it with nationalism and the positions of the extreme right is in fact giving strength to the extreme right and the status quo of the European Union. There is indeed a great distance and great discontent between the peoples of Europe and the European Union, but this discontent and distance are rooted in the policies and options for the destruction of social and labour rights promoted by the European Union. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u230	Seeking to restore the discontent and alienation of peoples from the European Union to the positions and proposals of the extreme right means not only denying the objective roots of this discontent and the withdrawal from the European Union, but also bleaching the positions of the extreme right, which, Prime Minister, are opposed to those of the European peoples when they affirm their discontent. When European peoples say discontent with the European Union, it is because they demand more freedom, more democracy, more development, more progress and more social justice. Obviously, the positions of the extreme-right, opposing the European Union, are in exactly the opposite direction: they impose less democracy, less freedoms, less development and worse living conditions on workers and on peoples. But Mr Prime Minister, this raises the need to face these objective roots which are at the root of the discontent of the peoples in relation to the European Union and which are in the impositions of the parties - some of which we had the opportunity to discuss in the previous debate - resulting from the rules of the euro and of the economic and monetary union, of economic governance, which have loved the sovereignty of the peoples and which prevent them from deciding for themselves the best way to their development and progress, which have destroyed the national economies in particular from countries such as Portugal. When we talk to Portuguese workers in the most diverse sectors of production — in agriculture, fisheries, industry — we find that there is a very clear identification between the destruction of our country's productive capacity and the European taxes that have been placed on us over the decades and have led to this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u231	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u232	Therefore, Prime Minister, the question that is being raised is how the proper response is given to the discontent expressed by the peoples in relation to the European Union, while at the same time defending the sovereignty of the peoples, their right to development, progress, social justice and their sovereignty. This necessarily requires the affirmation of this alternative that must be put to the European Union, an alternative for relations of cooperation, peace and progress in Europe, in respect of the sovereignty and the rights of peoples. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u233	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u234	Mr President, Prime Minister : The exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union is certainly a process with which the European Union itself and its institutions would not count at a certain time until the citizens spoke. But I understand that it is essential that the European Union itself does not lose the opportunity to question precisely why citizens give that answer. In the most diverse opportunities that citizens of several European Union states had to decide on the European construction process, the overall response was that they were not satisfied with the European construction process. And the European Union always refuses to make a reading of the voice of these citizens, which is a gross mistake. The European Union itself does not realize that it is ruling for the interests of its elites and for the interests of the powerful and that it is not, in fact, giving the necessary answers to the specific life of its citizens, quite the contrary. As already mentioned in the 15th year debate, there are certain instruments that are being created to put obstacles to the progress of the different States, the different economies and the development that is required and that citizens require. When we talk about it, we talk about their concrete lives and answers to their concrete lives. Therefore, the first idea the Greens would like to give is to regret that the European Union does not make the readings due to the voice of its citizens. The second idea — already mentioned by several parliamentary groups — has to do with the question of the Portuguese Government's obligation to look at the interests and needs of Portuguese citizens residing and working in the United Kingdom. For example, in the past legislature, we had a wave of emigration of people to the United Kingdom —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u235	And there's still!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u236	... among them qualified young people. And these people left the country because it did not give them the necessary answers, so they were forced and even invited to leave the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u237	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u238	These citizens need a helping hand, they need to feel that the Portuguese Government is on their side and to watch for the answers needed to guarantee their rights. Finally — and I will finish — the third idea that the Greens would like to mention and emphasise is that it would be very good that this negotiating process from the United Kingdom of the European Union would not become a revenge process for the United Kingdom. That's what we can't accept!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u239	The Socialist Party will divide your speech by two gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u240	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party faces this process of leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union with a feeling of sadness, firstly. This shared space of the European Union, which is probably the space with more democratic participation and more civic freedoms we find on the globe, in which each citizen exercises his right to vote freely, is an area of communion and sharing sovereignty rather than democratic imposition, and it is therefore sad that we see the United Kingdom leaving the European Union. The process will certainly be complex and there are those who say that it will probably last more than two years, such as the difficulty of disconnecting from the departure of a Member State of the European Union. I would like to leave a specific concern and question to Mr Prime Minister, insofar as this process is a difficult process, it cannot consume all the energy of the Union in the next two years. What citizens feel is that the answer that needs to be given to their needs must also come from the European Union to 27 and the Rome Declaration has left us a set of clues: more cohesion, more convergence, complete economic and monetary union. Therefore, for us, it is a fundamental assumption that, at the moment, the Brexit guides lead to a fruitful solution for sharing future responsibilities in a different relational framework, but that the Union still has the energy to focus on what is essential: more convergence, more cohesion, a discussion of the next financial perspective, which is central and essential for all citizens and also for Portugal. I would therefore leave this question to you, in order to know whether, essentially, the Portuguese Government, with the set of assumptions that are on the guides today, will not include that basic budget either. This process must succeed, it must be a success, but the Union must continue to focus essentially on the problems it has, and it cannot close for two years to discuss Brexit, leaving behind what is a fundamental agenda not only for Portugal, but also for all 27 Member States. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u241	Mr Carla Tavares of the Socialist Party now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u242	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The United Kingdom is one of the oldest allies in Portugal, but even the oldest. One of the centuries of history and cooperation, marked by a strong Atlantic dimension that has been strategic for our country and that should also be strengthened in the context of Brexit, both in the field of defence and in the field of security. But the interests of Portuguese residents in the United Kingdom must also be safeguarded, and that is indeed our main concern. Brexit has caused great concern among Portuguese residents and working in the United Kingdom, afraid that they are due to the possible loss of their rights acquired as Europeans as regards access to work, access to business, the right of residence, social rights, the free movement of persons. They feel like a currency of exchange in the context of negotiations between the British Government and the European Union and are quite concerned about their future. They currently reside in the United Kingdom of about half a million Portuguese, and if it is true that two thirds of them are already in a position to obtain residence permits, it is true that one third of Portuguese residents in the United Kingdom are still not in a position to achieve it, because it takes about five years to obtain residence permits. It is therefore essential to define the cut-off, which is the date from which they count back the five years for the permission to obtain the residence permit, and we are pleased to see that the position of the Portuguese Government is in that sense now to be considered as the date of the effective departure of the United Kingdom of the European Union. We also believe that it is absolutely important to reach an agreement on Community citizens living in the United Kingdom as well as citizens living in the European Union — and the number of British residents living in Portugal will be around 20 000 to 30 000. This agreement should be based on principles of reciprocity and non-discrimination and should be as comprehensive as possible, including not only residence rights, but also the different social rights. We also take advantage of alerting the excessive bureaucratic process of procedures for obtaining residence permits. We ask, therefore, whether exceptional measures have been taken to assist Portuguese residents in the United Kingdom, in particular with the strengthening of means in the embassies. It is also important to safeguard the interests of Portuguese companies in the United Kingdom. I mean that between January and August 2016 the UK market represented around 10 % of Portuguese exports of goods and services and about 4, 8 % of our imports. They deserve particular attention because they are the main export sectors, textiles, the metallurgical industry, wines and also footwear and cork. I also refer to the recently created mission structure led by Dr. Bernardo Trindade, which aims to attract investments based in the United Kingdom that wish to remain in the European Union after Brexit. We congratulate the Government on the creation of this mission structure, because if the United Kingdom wants to be out, Portugal wants to be in. Brexit should be seen not as a problem but as an opportunity for Portugal, and the example of this opportunity is the already expressed interest shown by the European Medicines Agency in changing its seat to Portugal. We took advantage of this to ask whether there are any developments in this process and, in the meantime, whether there were other entities who had shown interest in looking to Portugal after Brexit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u243	To close the debate, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Antonio Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, it is essential to find a full unanimity in this Parliament as to what I have identified as a negotiating priority on the part of Portugal — people, the defence of the interests of Portuguese citizens in the United Kingdom and the defence of the interests of the citizens of the United Kingdom. There is unanimity, we agree on this. This means, on the one hand, the guarantee of the right of residence, which does not depend on five years of residence, because it is sufficient for a citizen to have nationality of any Community country to have the right to reside in any country of the European Union. This period is continuous, will continue and should not be interrupted with the departure of any Member State of the European Union. On the other hand, the protection of rights means the guarantee of social rights already established, of social rights in training and even of social rights to be implemented within years, such as the right to reform, which in many cases will only take place many years after the departure of the United Kingdom of the European Union. It is therefore necessary to safeguard all these rights, which must continue to be respected. The initial moment cannot be other than that of the effective departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union ; while the United Kingdom is part of the European Union is the territory of the Union and those who reside in the United Kingdom reside in the territory of the Union, as is the territory of any British citizen currently resident in Portugal. Secondly, we are very sensitive to the question of bureaucracy and I believe that the British Government is too, because it has now asked people to suspend filling out the 85-page form, since obviously it does not have the ability to appreciate so much bureaucracy. This is a topic which has also been the subject of discussion between the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Portugal and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, and which has combined work together for greater simplification and disbursation. I would like to reply to two of the questions put by Mr Pedro Mota Soares. As far as the fundamental issue of the Atlantic strategy is concerned, I would like to say that we have an Atlantic strategy. That was the strategy we built with the US partners, Latin American partners, African partners, and that is the view we have of the Atlantic, not merely Europeanist, but as a link point between Europe and other regions of the world. This is how we have done throughout history, that is how we will continue to do in the future and the project that we have just referred to regarding the location of the Air Center in the Azores aims precisely to underline our Atlantic dimension. Obviously, we have already publicly said that we are interested in the European Medicines Agency located in Portugal. What are we doing about it? We are doing the diplomatic work that Portugal must do to achieve this goal. There is a good link between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Health and other national entities that can contribute positively to the success of this objective and the Portuguese Government has recently made a visit to the European Medicines Agency. We are doing our job and so we will proceed. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has raised a very important issue and the European Union cannot fail to reflect on what these results mean. As Mr. João Oliveira said, there are very diverse positions regarding the motivations of those who defend and those who do not support the European Union. He pointed out well that there are people who are against participation in the European Union for very different reasons and it would be highly unfair to confuse the position of the CFP with the position of the extreme right, even if they were coincident against the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u245	It's injustice!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u246	However, Mr. João Oliveira, it is also important to clarify that, among those who defend the European Union, there are also different motivations for the defence of the European Union, and not all defenders of the European Union can be confused.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u247	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u248	I understand that the European Union is essential in order to be able to respond to the great global challenges we have before us: if we want to cope successfully with climate change, we need a strong European Union; if we want to have a regulation of globalisation and not a wild deregulation of global markets, we need a strong European Union; if we want to be effective in collective defence and internal security, we need a strong European Union. Today, anyone who wants to be sovereign or is part of a union at the European Union level or hardly a country with the Portuguese dimension ensures the powers and rights of sovereign States. That is why I understand that the European Union is essential. Is the European Union not perfect? No, it is not perfect, perhaps it could hardly be perfect, because hardly any human creation tends to perfection. But the fight is done within the European Union and not outside the European Union. Is it possible to improve the European Union? It's possible, yes. Even today, the Commission has presented one of the sectoral books complementary to the White Paper on the Future of Europe on the social pillar, structured into three key categories: equal opportunities rights and access to the labour market, equitable working conditions and protection and social inclusion. A more social Europe will be better than today's Europe. That is why it is worth fighting for this Europe and that is why we want to fight for it. I would like to tell Mr Miguel Morgado that if there is anyone in this Parliament who is neither ambiguous nor ever in terms of European integration it is this government and it is the main party that supports this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u249	There is no ambiguity with us either!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u250	There is no ambiguity either, exactly! [[PS, the CFP and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.]] I would like to recall that it was a PS government that called for membership of the European Union, it was a PS government that obtained membership of the European Union, it was a PS government that integrated Portugal into the euro, it was a PS government that concluded the negotiation of the current treaty governing the European Union. If there is a party that has formed governments and that is not ambiguous about this matter is the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u251	I thank you for concluding this, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u252	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not the PS that ever experienced a phase of Euroscepticism! [[Now...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u253	No, we never live any Euroscepticism! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, it was also not the PS that called into question Portugal's accession to the EEC ( European Economic Community ) by bringing down a government because it did not believe in the negotiations that had been made for accession to the EEC. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u254	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u255	No, we have not been Eurosceptics, we are not Eurosceptics, we are Eurosceptics, which does not mean that we are Eurosceptics, because we are not either! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-26.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the preparatory debate of the next European Council, we have reached the end of our agenda today. The Bureau congratulated Mr Prime Minister and the other members of the Government. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, beginning at 10 a.m., exceptionally. of the order of work is the discussion, by marking the Block of Left, together, in general, of the projects of lein.os 496 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and extension of social protection of work by shift and night ( BE) and 508 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work system ( CFP ). There will be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to continue in the afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 38 minutes.]]
