ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. We will enter the first item on the agenda, with the joint debate of the projects of lein.os 658 / XIII ( 3. a ) — establishes the obligation of audits to systems with possible impacts on the quality of outdoor air, in particular the research of the presence of legionella sp colonies. ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 102 / 2010 of 23 September) ( BE), 659 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Re-establishs the mandatory audits of indoor air quality and research of legionella sp colonies. ( Fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August) ( BE), 676 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishes the reintroduction of the requirement to periodically monitor the quality of indoor and outdoor air in service buildings with air conditioning systems ( PAN), 680 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets the conditions for the establishment of the primary prevention and control programme for legionella ( PCP ), 681 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the obligation to submit an annual action plan to monitor and monitor indoor air quality ( PSD ) and 682 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August with a view to ensuring the regular verification of air quality of buildings with air conditioning system, including verification of the existence of legionella colonies ( The Greens), in general, and of draft resolutions 962 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exemption from moderate rate payment in cases of legionella outbreak ( The Greens ) and 1160 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a study to assess the need for the implementation of a national health programme on primary prevention of legionaires'disease, which promotes an information campaign to disseminate the means of primary prevention of legionaires'disease and to strengthen human and material resources in the field of public health for the conduct of assessments, audits and inspections on the quality of the indoor air of public and private services buildings with air conditioning systems, as well as the quality of outdoor air in the perimeters of these buildings ( CDS-PP ). To initiate the debate on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we are making today, provided by the agenda of the Left Block, is the corollary of a set of interventions which the Left Block carried out over the last three years in the Assembly of the Republic, in order to launch an alert and correct the amendments which were introduced in 2013 to the legal framework that ensures the safety and monitoring of air conditioning and air conditioning equipment, which until that time were the subject of a mandatory periodic audit provided for in the law in 2006. It was under the restrictions and economic policy that both because of the public expenditure on the safety of these air conditioning equipment and because of the existing pressures on the private side, on the side of the large commercial areas, on the side of all the private economic agents who had the responsibility for this mandatory periodic audit, since then, the degree of assurances of security and surveillance and monitoring of these equipment has been reduced and reduced. Soon in 2014, after the outbreak of legionella in Vila Franca de Xira, which was one of the largest of the world's historical records, the Left Block raised this issue in the Assembly of the Republic, through a recommendation to the Government to reject the 2006 legislation. This recommendation was plunged with the votes of the then majority of the PSD and the CDS. Already after the last elections, the Left Block returned to this issue with a new recommendation, exactly the same as it had already done in the previous Legislation, not only to reintroduced the levels of protection provided for in the law of 2006 but also to create new legislation that would fill the existing legal vacuum regarding indoor air and equipment that could cause contamination through outdoor air. This recommendation was adopted, with the favourable votes of the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens, and still the NAP, but had no consequence until very recently. That is why, by continuing alone on the initiative on this subject, the Left Block addressed to the Government the concrete question of what steps were being taken to follow up Parliament's recommendation to restore the 2006 law and new legislation, which, as the Environment Minister himself acknowledged in the Committee on the Environment, should fill in the legal void that was identified by both the Public Ministry in the investigations into the case of Vila Franca, as well as by the Government itself, in the way it explicitly recognized it in the Commission. It was following these questions and the lack of concrete initiative to follow Parliament's recommendation that the Left Block came to present two of the bills we have today on the table, and other parties joined with specific initiatives that agree well and come in line with the proposal of the Left Block, precisely in the sense of two essential measures. The first is to put back the mandatory periodic audits, which, of course, do not replace, on the contrary, ensure that the daily, daily, weekly, and fortnightly procedures are being complied with which the law provides and which are part of the normal obligations of those with such equipment. But there is an obligation above this, which is to have an external audit, an entity outside the institutions, which ensures that the procedures are being taken, are being ensured daily, and do so with a minimum compulsory periodicity: in the case of priority equipment, day centres, schools, daycare facilities, hospitals, this verification must be done at least every two years and, in the case of private equipment, large commercial, industrial areas, etc. , this verification shall be carried out every three years. So it was in the law of 2006 and today, if so, the requirement is greater than that which was then the law before. With regard to outdoor air, the proposal of the Left Block is that it is provided for in the law to ensure that these equipments which have a potential to pollute, from the bacteriological point of view, and to create contamination in their normal functioning,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u3	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u4	... they have dedicated specific legislation—and so I finish—to ensure that these checks also apply to equipment with this nature. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u5	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate the Left Block on bringing this important issue to debate. Legionary disease is triggered by inhalation or aspiration of water droplets suspended in the air containing legionella bacteria, emphasizing the Directorate-General of Health ( DGS ) that this bacterium is a serious public health problem, which has a clear cause-effect relationship with the colonization of water by bacteria in water systems of large buildings. Air conditioning systems are places conducive to the proliferation of the bacteria, and it is essential to bet on prevention due to time detection of outbreaks of infection. In this regard, the Directorate-General for Health stresses that periodic disinfection of ventilation systems prevents the development of legionella colonies. Now, during this year, at least 56 cases of infection were caused by an outbreak of legionella, six of which were fatal. In 2014, an outbreak of legionella caused by the cooling towers of a company affected 375 people, resulting in the death of 12 of them. The Regulation of the Energy Systems of Air Conditioning in Buildings contained, until August 2013, several rules requiring periodic air quality control through mandatory audits in service buildings that had air conditioning systems, and there was an article specifically related to legionella colonies. Surprisingly, until 284 cases of infected victims have been recorded between 2010 and 2013, this Regulation has been repealed, mentioning the notice of revocation in its preamble that «the indoor air quality audits are eliminated ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of all these data and considering that 18 lives have been lost in three years, it is necessary to reintroduce the legal obligation to regularly monitor the quality of indoor and outdoor air in the buildings of services that have air conditioning systems.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u7	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings up a proposal for the establishment of a programme for primary prevention and control of legionella bacteria. This bill applies to public-use establishments or factories containing residential hot water and cold water networks or cooling systems, cooling towers, evaporative capacitors, humidifiers and air conditioning systems, whether of a public or private nature, such as large commercial areas, hotels, schools, kindergartens, universities or health care units. With this initiative, the CFP entrusts the State with the responsibility to ensure the improvement of energy performance and the quality of the interior and exterior air of the buildings referred to above. It also provides that they are assigned to the Directorate-General of Health, national health authority, regional and local public health units and to the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge the human, financial and technical means necessary for the elaboration and implementation of the program. With this initiative, the CFP, unlike other initiatives now under discussion, is not limited to intervening in air quality. The PCP initiative reiterates the obligation of inspections of indoor air quality that had been withdrawn in 2013 by PSD and CDS, establishes the conditions for the creation of a program that has as its main objective the reduction of the formation and dissemination of potentially infectious aerosols, thus reducing the possibility of infection by legionella, and finally determines the conduct of risk assessments of contamination of the atmosphere by bacteria. The creation of a primary prevention programme here proposed by the CFP becomes even more pressing when existing legislation and regulations only affect secondary prevention. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Following the April Revolution, there have been extraordinary advances in public health in our country. The recognition of the universal right to health, the creation of programs to provide health care of proximity and the generalization of vaccination are advances that have enabled a great improvement in Portuguese health levels. Despite these notable advances, the attacks on the National Health Service ( SNS ), played by successive governments of right-wing policy, placed public health and health promotion programs in the first line of public investment. As a result of this attack, public health teams are currently demanding, workers and the means attached to the Directorate-General for Health are insufficient. In view of this, there is an urgent need to strengthen DGS's capacity for intervention. The programme proposed by the CFP focuses on public health. It is a program that, having national coverage, does not forget regional and local approaches, being defined and coordinated by the Directorate-General of Health, in conjunction with regional and local public health units and with the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge. The realization of this program, as far as the National Health Service is concerned, does not exempt the implementation of an investment plan that includes the renovation of equipment, essential to overcome the deficiencies and the state of deterioration and poor conservation to which they have been voted for for several years, which was recognized by both the managers of the Hospital de São Francisco Xavier and the Director-General of Health, in the hearing we performed here. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is possible to adopt measures to prevent the occurrence of legionella disease, as well as to control environments susceptible to legionella development. What is required, in the face of the succession of outbreaks in our country, is the creation of a primary prevention and control programme for legionella, as proposed today by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u9	To present the PSD bill, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law submitted by the PSD and which today is discussed together with various initiatives of the other parliamentary groups, with the exception of the PS Parliamentary Group, which has chosen not to bring any initiative and to stay out of this debate, aims to make the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August. This bill aims to introduce an improvement in existing legislation on indoor air quality and consists of the introduction of an annual requirement to present an internal air quality monitoring plan for buildings or fractions of trade and services whose area is already of some relevance. This obligation shall also cover buildings that are owned by a public entity and have a useful floor area occupied by a public entity and often visited by the public provided that they have an area of more than 250 m2. With this bill it is intended to give greater effectiveness to the compliance of the monitoring plans already provided for in the current legislation, the concern with indoor air pollution is an imperative that we should all move and for which the PSD has always been in the front line. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August, have been given a huge step forward with regard to monitoring the quality of the interior air of buildings, with emphasis on the primacy that has been given, on the one hand, to the climate conditions of our country, to natural ventilation, an outlook for the optimization of resources and energy efficiency, and on the other, by placing on the control of sources of pollution and the adoption of preventive measures, both at the level of the design of buildings and their operation, in order to reduce the risks to public health. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legislation currently in force has brought much greater rigour in air quality control. Let me remind you, for example, of the permissible indices in the samples of the so-called legionella bacteria, as shown in the table referred to in Ordinance No 353 -A / 2013 of 4 December, no presence in the sampling to be analyzed was tolerated, which had not happened before. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the face of the emergence of several legionella cases that have occurred in our country and have caused dozens of victims, some unfortunately having even died, we should not blame the legislation, which is certainly good. Yes, we should ask ourselves why the State has not fulfilled its obligation to carry out effective monitoring of installations which are under its direct reach. however, in view of the failure of the State to monitor the health and safety of its citizens, the PSD decided to present this bill in order to ensure that the public health of all is guaranteed and in the expectation that, to be approved this diploma that we now propose, we do not hear again about people infected and killed by legionella for the simple reason that the State has failed them, as indeed, we have already been used to in recent times. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our project aims to ensure that the health of our fellow citizens is a daily concern and not, as many want, a concern that is only shown from years to years when pre-programmed audits are carried out. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u11	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor to speak on behalf of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens present today to the Assembly of the Republic a bill to ensure the regular verification of air quality of buildings with air conditioning system, including verification of the existence of legionella colonies. In 2014, the country witnessed with great concern an outbreak of legionella disease caused by bacteria of the genus legionella, which occurred in the municipality of Vila Franca de Xira, which constituted a situation of great seriousness at the level of public health, infecting more than 375 citizens, of which 12 died. The World Health Organization classified this outbreak as a "great public health emergency" in Portugal and described the epidemic as "unusual and unexpected". In 2017, the country again witnessed a new outbreak of legionella, this time in Lisbon, at Hospital S. Francisco Xavier, resulting in 56 people infected and already 6 deaths resulting from the case. These situations have exposed the existence of inadequacies and weaknesses to prevent these outbreaks. We well know that the bacterium "walks around", however, and precisely because there is such consciousness, the Greens believe that all measures that can prevent these outbreaks must be ensured, in particular through the verification of air conditioning systems, with a view to detecting the presence of diverse pollutants, including bacteriologically. The truth — now, Mrs PSD — is that legislation has already been more stringent in relation to this verification of systems, particularly when it provided regular internal air quality audits and, in particular, research into the presence of legionella colonies. This requirement consisted of Decree-Law No 79 / 2006 of 4 April, and was eliminated with Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August. To resume the obligation of these audits is not a guarantee that there will be no more legionella outbreaks, but, frankly, it is a preventive measure that can help prevent new outbreaks. The Greens therefore consider it important to resume the legal text on the verification of legionella colonies in buildings with air conditioning system, and that is precisely the objective of this bill that we present. We also use to clarify essential parameters that need to be evaluated in the verification of air conditioning systems, including new air flow values per space depending on the occupation, the characteristics of the building and its air conditioning systems and also air pollutant concentration values within the buildings. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens also dragged another bill that we built when we brought together and understood the concrete concerns raised by the Association of Victims of Legionella de Vila Franca de Xira. The truth is that many people have had serious problems, resulting from the outbreak of which they were victims and, since then, they need increased medical care, whose cost falls entirely on people in particular. These people, in addition to having been victims of outbreaks, have still had increased costs in their lives in relation to the need for increased medical care, which are not compensated in any way. in this sense, the Greens consider that the State owes them, at least — and that is what this Association calls for — the exemption of moderate rates in relation to the medical care they need, resulting from the outbreak of which they were victims. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also call on the other parliamentary groups to adopt this draft resolution from the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u13	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the issue of legionella infection, in a debate that involves the safety of our community and clearly crosses the scope of public health and the environment. We do so following a sad and regrettable fact that we are well aware, a recent outbreak of legionella in a public hospital in Lisbon, in which 56 people were infected and 6 of our citizens died. The CDS once again regrets this tragic and painful occurrence and we continue to wait for the indispensable clarification and clearance of responsibilities, which cannot be delayed. in our country, justice has to be faster, guilt cannot die single and the government cannot accumulate successive apologies when it fails and does not ensure the most basic functions of the State. The current regulatory and legislative framework on this subject is different, and as we have recently confirmed in the hearing of the Minister of Health and the Director General of Health, within the Committee on Health, this is a framework which is in accordance with the European directives on this subject, a framework which, if properly applied and complied with, enables the safety of equipment and our fellow citizens. however, being relevant and clear, this regulatory framework is essentially directed to secondary prevention of legionella infection. Having said that, we do not cease to be in favour of taking evolutionary steps to consolidate the legal tools available, to improve the reality we have today, with the aim of going further and avoiding and minimizing new dramatic episodes that could compromise the safety of our citizens. It is in this line that the CDS today presents some proposals on legionella infection more strictly related to the area of health and the primary prevention of infection. We recommend that the Government undertake a study to assess the need for the implementation of a national health programme on primary prevention of legionaires' disease, to promote an information campaign to disseminate the means of primary prevention of this disease and to strengthen human and material resources in the public health area to carry out assessments, audits and inspections on the quality of the interior air of public and private services buildings with air conditioning systems, as well as on the quality of outdoor air in the perimeters of these buildings. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With these proposals, the CDS wants the population to have access, in a simple and systematic manner, to all relevant and essential information so that effective primary prevention of legionary disease can be made. We also believe that it is not enough to inform, legislate, publish standards or guidelines. It is essential to monitor effectively, as has been demonstrated in the recent outbreak. I repeat: it is essential to effectively monitor and equip the human and material monitoring teams in sufficient numbers to ensure that all audits and inspections are carried out in order to ensure that legislation, standards and programmes are complied with and that the population is indeed protected. We are aware that in this way we emphasize the greater role of prevention and the priority it should deserve in health policies. We will actively follow this theme and we will be available, as always, to take consistent steps to improve public health in our country, to ensure the improvement of the safety of our citizens. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u15	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Health is the most precious good man has. Contribute to preserve public health, even with a modest contribution that is, is the obligation of each of us individually and which collectively holds us accountable. That is how I started an intervention on this subject 14 years ago. Today, the theme returns to this House, making all the sense that it is so because it is necessary to do more. We are aware that this matter is not of the most mediatic, but it has very important implications for people's health and lives, enough reason to fully take up its resolution. 16 years ago, in 2. the legislative session of the VIII Legislation, I was author and presented here Bill No. 447 / VIII ( 2. ( a ) which dealt with air quality within the buildings. This bill was approved, as was another of the PSD and the Greens, with the abstention of the CDS, which expired in 2002. It has expired in this House even since there is an awareness that the waste of energy that occurred in the heating and cooling systems required a new response on the construction and renovation of buildings in terms of isolation, such as the simultaneous reduction of air exchanges between the interior and the exterior of buildings in relation to the confinement of the air and its quality. These issues clearly identified a public health problem that was already mentioned in international studies and on which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group supported its argument. A number of parallel studies called "sick buildings" all those with problems at the lower level of indoor air, lack of outdoor air, poor air distribution, inadequate temperature control, inadequate projects and modifications after construction and lack of systems maintenance. The issue under discussion should not be confined to legionella but also to indoor air pollution, which consists of pollen, powder, fumes, cooking vapours, animals, bacteria and other viruses circulating through the environment, affecting people who spend about 90 % of their time in closed enclosures and who are largely subject to direct or almost permanent exposure to air pollution in closed places, which represents a danger to public health due to the continuous increase in the number of people with respiratory problems, with consequences and costs for the National Health Service and for professional performance, fundamental to the quality of life of people. With the publication of Decrees-Laws No. 78 / 2006, 79 / 2006 and 80 / 2006, many issues relating to air quality, air conditioning, energy losses and the need to carry out mandatory and periodic audits in service buildings with air conditioning were preserved. However, with the publication of Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August, the PSD/CDS Government revoked those three Decree-Laws and consequently eliminated the audits at the quality of the indoor air. It is recalled that Decree-Law No 79 / 2006 stated the risk itself and defined the measures directed to legionella. It is also important to remember the PSD and CDS benches that it was one year after having ceased to be mandatory audits to services buildings with air conditioning that in November 2014 in Vila Franca de Xira, occurred one of the largest legionella outbreaks worldwide. The initiatives that BE, the NAP and the CFP present here today continue to be consistent and necessary after the amendment of the legislation carried out in 2013 by the PSD and the CDS. in this sense, the presentation of proposals by the parties that ruled in 2013 only occurs because of a mere sense of political and media opportunity, out of objective knowledge and a real concern, although, hastily, they ran to the Hospital of São Francisco Xavier when the last problem of legionella occurred. But at no point, Mr. Members realized that this situation could arise in the absence of audits that the PSD/CDS government no longer considers as mandatory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u17	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u18	I'm done now, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the question of public health requires public and private entities to develop a set of prevention and safeguards procedures, in accordance with existing legislation and not only on their own initiative or type of structures. It is therefore necessary to act, and quickly, because it has been lost for a long time, and to act means correcting mistakes committed and preventing others from being practised. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u19	Mrs Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u20	Mr President, Mr Renato Sampaio, I am sorry to hear you make statements of such gravity and without any support. To say that it was a year later—getting to understand that it was as a result of PSD legislation—that the legionella outbreak in Vila Franca de Xira, in which 14 dead were recorded, is of no equal gravity. I never thought you'd dare to say that. Mr, then how does the report, between 2004 and 2013, explain before the so-called law to which Mr refers, of 962 legionella cases? That is indeed a demagogy without size! Let me also tell you that the law that you wanted and that so much praise makes there are audits with a marked date, i.e. worry, with a marked date, about what will happen. Allow me to make the following parallelism: imagine that ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) inspected economic activities with a marked date. This means that it could be, for a year, two, three, six, depending on the date marked, to foresee systematically and at will, because it would be of no importance at all. But we have come to the conclusion that this is what really matters to you, is that you are inspecting on a marked date, contrary to the spirit of the 2013 law, of constant supervision. We will be able to take account of the lack of staff to carry out the inspection, we will be able to improve the means, but what matters is that the entities are proactive and that the State does what it is responsible for, which controls, which always continually and consistently, so that these matters are controlled and public health is put first. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u21	For a second intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we would like to emphasize that, regardless of the greater or lesser mediaism that may be given to the situation of death for this disease, for the CDS, it cannot be forgotten and indeed deserves our priority and follow-up, as we have said, and deserves this debate to be serious and clear. We have left, even for those who are listening to us, the notion that it was assumed, in this House, by the Director-General for Health and by the Minister of Health — as previously assumed by the Minister of the Environment, in response to a question from the Left Block — that the legislation we have is the guarantor of the safety of the citizens, what is needed is that the checks are carried out. Therefore, it is fallacious, in some way, to suggest that it is due to lack of legislation that these dramatic situations have occurred. The fundamental thing is that public health measures are strengthened, and that is why the CDS here has come forward with clear proposals today. It remains to be hoped that the Government will assume its responsibilities, that it will effectively govern and that it will stop shaking the water from the hood and discarding responsibilities. That is why the CDS effectively expects concrete answers and also the Portuguese. for our part, we will fulfill the function assigned to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u23	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u24	I will finish, Mr. President. We hope that the Government will have a speedy and effective response, and we hope that it will not once again fail to fulfil its responsibilities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u25	To conclude the discussion on this point, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, what has failed was your policies and your 2013 decision, changing the obligation of inspections. That's what failed, it wasn't the state that failed. Today, the PSD and the CDS come here, almost in a contrite act, to apologize for what they have done, but they're late, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u27	You approved the Budget, you approved the captives!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u28	A contributory act needs the PCP to do with the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u29	In addition, they have tried to clear their responsibilities, both in the area of air quality and in the state in which they left the National Health Service, a state of degradation which Mrs. Isabel Galriça Neto mentioned here and which was admitted by the Directorate-General for Health and by those responsible for Hospital de São Francisco Xavier. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] True, they recognized this, the PCP said so, but it was aggravated by the right-wing policy, particularly followed by PSD and CDS, with regard to the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u30	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the second item on the agenda, which is from the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1117 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government introduce in public procurement mechanisms to ensure greater quality in school meals ( CDS-PP ), 1155 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government respect the autonomy of schools, enabling the public management of school meals ( BE ), 1156 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop binding guidelines on the organisation and operation of school buildings, ensuring greater quality in meals provided ( PAN ), 1157 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen nutritionists for public school in order to allow effective monitoring of the ingredients, ensuring greater quality in school meals ( PAN ), 1158 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government determine the non-distribution of milk to pre-school and 1-school children. the cycle of basic education, ensuring greater quality in school meals (NAP) and 1162 / XIII (3. ( a ) — by the public management of school canteens ( CFP ). To initiate the debate, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented by the CDS today stems from a situation of lack of quality found in the school canteens, which has been widely disclosed in the media, to which a petition was attached yesterday delivered in the Assembly of the Republic, which has already collected 14 000 signatures. Currently, the school canteens are responsible, in the case of kindergartens and schools of 1. the cycle, the municipal chambers and the 2nd. the secondary school cycle of the Ministry of Education. In both cases, the management model may be one of three: the responsibility of the schools themselves; granting catering companies, which means that the holding is delivered to an external company that delivers at school the meal ready to be served; or catering for on-site packaging, which means that the school's dining room is exploited by an external company, which there makes meals. Competitions have recently been launched, which will last until 2020, and are more or less dominated by two major companies in this sector. in this academic year, in particular, there have been many complaints, especially in the case of catering companies. The complaints are real, they have to do with the quantity and quality of meals and the early service of meals. Given that it is somehow the local or central State that is responsible for ensuring quality, it is unacceptable for this situation to occur and it is therefore important to understand the causes that lead to these real events. in fact, what we know is that competitions and contract books provide quality and certification rules, at least in theoretical and a priori terms and, therefore, quality would be guaranteed there. On the other hand, we know that there is a circular of the Ministry of Education very detailed in the detail of the items to be provided and of the capitals, i.e. of the quantities according to the school year of the students, and that in the contracts are defined surveillance measures and penalties for non-compliance. Therefore, the only variable responsible for today's situation is the price and stems from the fact that it is the price which discriminates against the award of tenders, with incentives for setting such a low price that does not allow the quality of meals to be maintained at acceptable levels. So it seems to us that it is about this variable that the work of improvement should affect. In any case, what are the solutions that are currently on the table? Well, the government presents as a solution, which seems good to us but not enough, the increase in supervision in schools. Why isn't that enough? Because, as we have seen, for example in the Cascais Authority, supervision takes place, it even pays penalties, but this does not solve the problem, which is in fact the price being so low, being at such unreasonable levels that it is impossible, at that unit price, to deliver a meal with the necessary quality. On the other hand, the Block and the PCP propose as a solution the internalization of the school meals service again in schools, said in another way, which are schools themselves, to ensure the provision of the meal service, which we find very unwise, insofar as we prefer that the principal of a school be concerned with the teaching-learning process and with the guarantee of the pedagogical process and not necessarily to know whether the meat or fresh food supplier delivered the meals in due time. Therefore, for the CDS, the solution goes by tackling the problem where it exists, maintaining the concession system as a rule, but ensuring that in the public procurement process a price is ensured such that it is not possible to provide meals at a lower price than the one that offers quality. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the issue on the table is completely ideological at the moment. If we believe that the problem is only solved with more public investment and increased public servants, then we must guarantee approval of the projects of the Bloc and the PCP. If, on the contrary, we understand that we have to learn from the past and improve a process that, in any case, can help the management of schools, then we have to approve the CDS project. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u32	Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: You have already been reported here and you are well aware of the examples that came to the public about the low quality and quantity of food in school canteens. This problem is old, which does not devalue new complaints, which are even a good sign, a sign that families and schools did not normalize the idea that in canteens should be eaten badly, that canteens are a place where food has little quality. We have several reports of how these companies which school canteens have been granted operate. A former cook of these companies reported to a newspaper: « The chicken was raw from China, all black inside and full of feathers; the vegetables were all frozen; and the fish(...) looked like sponge or straw. The oil was oil, even had bad palate; the desserts, cream milk, pudding or gelatins, were all instantaneous, powder mixed with water, and the base of the soups was made with instant pure flakes, there was no potato. Do not keep on seeking. ” There are numerous examples and reports of this type, about how food is made in the canteens given to these private companies. Therefore, the problem is identified, he was, in fact, recognized by the Member of the CDS. of the nearly 1200 school meals, almost 800 are granted to two large companies in the sector, who get a business of millions over the years, at the cost of the quality of food our children consume in schools. What we should ask is why, because these canteens are granted. Is it by choice of schools? No, and we can hear what the President of the National Association of School Leaders, Director of the Grouping of General Schools Serpa Pinto, says: « Generally, most schools, indirectly or overnight, have already been pressured to deliver the canteen to companies ». That is, schools were pressured not by their option but by lack of human resources, due to lack of cooks or cooks to deliver the canteens to private dealers. The first question is this: what is the balance sheet of this concession? It's bad! It's a terrible balance! It was here recognized by the CDS. Second question: what is the solution? The solution has to go first, for not going around the problem. The problem is not self-monitoring, because, as a newspaper director also says, it is not possible for directors to have to do the canteen police every day. And that's what they are today, because companies try to circumvent the rules, try to send food of the worst quality and in less amount than is supposed to schools. But the problem, by itself, is not the price either, because, as Prof. Filinto Lima says, well known, « As long as I can resist the temptation to change my own kitchen to the granted kitchen, I will resist because I think that the kids are served differently». More: Prof. Filinto Lima, who is director of a school that has its own canteen, adds: « I have documents up to 1, 68 € and others of 1, 50 €, but never reach the limit». That is, today we have canteens from schools that are well managed, with good quality and good quantity, but that do not exceed the price that is paid to private companies. Why? Because companies compete and make the meal price their profit, at the expense of what children eat at school, at the expense of the workers' rights. That is why the CDS project does not go to the heart of the issue either, because the problem is not for those who grant the school canteen, the problem is not to refuse that the school can manage its school canteen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u34	The autonomy of schools only serves a few things!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u35	I ended by quoting a director of a port school who in 2008 said: « When we had our cook, the canteen was always full, the food presented another quality and we could organize a series of food education activities».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u36	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u37	I will finish, Mr. President. The problem is whether or not we recognize that food education, the acquisition of good eating habits, is part of education and, therefore, is part of the autonomy of the school to manage this food education. And the difference, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is between wanting to prevent schools from hiring a cook, which has an absurd impact, and wanting to feed a business letting our children continue to eat badly at school meals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u38	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the CDS for bringing this issue to debate so timely and we follow up with three initiatives. For the NAP, regardless of the scheme for granting school meals, monitoring its quality and nutritional balance is failing. And it is failing because responsibility falls on the directors of educational and educational establishments, who do not have the time or the technical skills needed to take control. Thus, since we understand that this should be done by nutritionists, we propose the hiring of only five nutritionists by each Regional Directorate of Services of the Directorate-General of School Establishments, in a total of 25 nutritionists. We have also found that schools are often used by children as an alternative to canteens, existing only those guidelines of the Directorate-General for Education on their organization and operation, which are not binding, in contrast to Circular No. 3/2013 for school meals, which has binding character. We understand that the concern about how meals in canteens are made available should also be extended to school offices, so we propose that their guidelines also be binding. Finally, we believe that under the School Milk Programme it should not be distributed to children of chocolate milk, since it has high quantities of sugar. The provision of chocolate milk in schools conveys to the population the idea that it is healthy, which leads parents to deception and to buy the chocolate milk that is marketed. We remember 12 Portuguese deaths a day with diabetes. The costs of diabetes in Portugal correspond to 1 % of GDP and 10 % of the health budget. On this subject, I end with a quote from Mrs Bastonária of the Order of Nutritionists, Alexandra Bento: "The creation of the School Milk Programme was very important, but at the moment we should think of the obligation to be milk without any addition of sugar. It is not conceivable that at a time when too much sugar is being consumed we are providing milk to children."
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u40	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to remind you of some situations in this area. In 2017, parents express concern and protest about the quality and quantity of food provided at school meals and say, « hence we are getting there, this is a cross-cutting problem across the whole region, in this case of Lisbon ». In 2016, a case. On October 25, the representative of the Association of Parents of the Basic School 1. the cycle of Casais de Vera Cruz, in Coimbra, was called by the school official to go to it to see if the food was in a position to be served to the children. The plant was beans-brown with tuna and egg and, when the official opened the container, what she saw was a foam mixed with beans and other ingredients and a smell that was not pleasant. The food was sour. In 2015 almost half of food poisoning occurred in schools. In 2014 ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) closed school canteen after food poisoning. In 2012, meals served in the canteens of schools have no quality and even there are children who go hungry. With regard to this matter, we cannot only talk about the quality and quantity of food served, we should also remember that in 2014 the unions said the following: « Collective food companies impose precariousness as a general rule in working relationships with the sole aim of increasing profits. in school canteens, more than 90 % are precarious workers, are fired every year in June and are again hired in September». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has now not agreed on the problem of the quality of school meals and private exploitation of meals. The CFP has always denounced that the delivery of the management of the school canteens to the private concession was a way of disresponsibility of the State that could lead to loss of quality in terms of meals served to students, as well as the working conditions of employees. The fact is that the political option of successive governments that promoted right-wing policies to grant school canteens had very negative consequences on the degradation of the quality of the food made, in the quantity served and, indeed, in the degradation of the working conditions of those who work at the service of the companies that exploit the meals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u42	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u43	We are talking about heavy work, intensive work, very low wages, very precariously—that is all we are talking about. And — there are no illusions — this actually has results in the quality of meals served, because we cannot ignore this component of this problem that we are talking about. There is also another question, ladies and gentlemen. Members: are or are not meals in schools permanent and daily needs of schools themselves? Are or are they not required to serve the students who are studying in those schools daily?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u45	So are or are they not services without which schools cannot at all operate? Yeah, they are! They are even essential to the functioning of the public school. And then why are they not, in principle, assigned to the direct management of schools? What's the point of this?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u47	It doesn't make sense. They should be attributed to the direct management of schools. The CFP today brings to the proposed discussion to take that path. As to the fact that the grant contracts in school can not be renewed in the school canteens in which the monitoring action carried out has identified a lack of quality in meals or failure to comply with the schedule of charges and that the measures to take direct management of the school canteens in schools of responsibility of the central administration are then gradually adopted, without forgetting the need to ensure the human and material resources necessary for the proper functioning of the school canteens and the quality of meals, without any increase in the price of meals that are served. Finally, a note on the projects under discussion. With regard to the draft resolution of the NAP, on nutritionists, there is a formulation that deserves us some doubt and some confusion because, in fact, those who approve the State budget are the Assembly of the Republic and it makes no sense to make a recommendation to the Government on this matter. It also seems to us that the measure itself that is proposed in terms of number of nutritionists may be quite superior to the needs felt on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u48	Exactly! [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u49	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. About chocolate milk, I would like to say that schools are not required to serve only and only chocolate milk to students;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u52	on the contrary, there is an alternative to simple milk and we should also say that, instead of a case-by-case measure, the CFP believes that there must be an integrated approach, in particular because of the plan that was approved in the State budget on a proposal from the CFP, which reflects on the issues of salt, sugar and fat.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u53	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u54	These are the proposals of the PCP, this is our reflection and we consider that there is a way of valuing public school, which would certainly be better tracked if the canteens returned to schools. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u55	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Germana Rocha has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today several draft resolutions on the provision of school meals. For the PSD, what should prevail in this debate is undoubtedly the requirement and the guarantee that children and young people have, as required, a balanced and quality diet with a view to the full realization of their school performance. In order for this to happen, it is therefore necessary to take note of this requirement in the competitive procedures leading to the conclusion of contracts with the companies to which this service is delivered, by establishing appropriate criteria, in particular the basic price per meal. It is said, in this respect, that this Government has established the criteria which are based on this public tender; this Government has established the basic price for meals, which must ensure the necessary direct relationship between the cost and the quality of the service provided; this Government has approved the schedule of charges which is based on these procedures; this Government has concluded the contracts with these companies for the period of three years and is therefore at the time of this government and the parties who will bear the responsibility for it. This is because it was with the current contracts concluded in 2017, about six months ago, that very serious complaints began to arise, as have never occurred, as regards the lack of quality, quantity and even hygiene with regard to school meals, registering between September and October of this year more than 80 complaints that question even the health of these students. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must also mention another aspect of the problem, which is the lack of conditions of hygiene and health of the facilities where the school canteens operate. This lack of conditions, which also results from this government's de-investment in the maintenance and re-qualification of the current school park, as well as in human resources, which are still lacking in our schools. The PSD is, of course, in favour of strengthening the supervision and enforcement of sanctions in the event of failure to comply strictly with this very important service. We are also in favour of a rigorous evaluation of the current functioning of the school canteens and the quality of meals, but the fact is that this Ministry of Education did not, in due time, take care of the interests of students in this area, in particular the necessary and rigorous follow-up of these concessions and, therefore, now announces a new monitoring plan. Case to say: after the stolen house locks to the door. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u57	On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, the parliamentary groups for the initiatives presented today on school meals, quality and quantity of what our children and young people eat and the promotion of healthy eating habits. The Government Programme already included this concern, articulating the areas of health, social action and education, and the Government is fulfilling. The Ministry of Education has already completed, and will be published within a few days, we believe, the integrated plan for quality control and quantity of meals served in public education and education establishments. This is a very concrete, comprehensive and comprehensive plan. It covers all matters relating to the ingredients, nutritional adequacy, packaging and control and assessment of quality and quantity. New monitoring teams are set up throughout the country, with school level control, with the participation of schools themselves, of the regional teams of the DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ), with the parent associations. Teams, these, who may appear by surprise in the canteens to achieve a well-defined goal: tight and timely monitoring, able to ensure that companies fulfill the specification of charges that has been set in a demanding way in nutritional parameters. What is needed is to be more effective in ensuring compliance with the daily record of operation of each meal, with microbiological analyses, at least five times a year, with control of equipment, materials, personnel. The State Budget for 2018 includes provisions on this issue and the Government did not wait for 2018 to act. We have to solve the problems that exist, but do not go wrong by false solutions. It makes no sense to propose to the Government actions which are legally lacking. We will not want to solve, in the form of contract formation, problems relating only to their implementation. It makes no sense to enter hastily through unilateral contractual terminations, with heavy financial burdens, perhaps unjustified. It makes no sense to invade the competences of municipalities until there are no problems indicated. It makes no sense to impose new administrative and bureaucratic burdens on schools, even where everything goes well. It makes no sense to adopt purely bureaucratic approaches without the notion of different realities or to adopt nutritional criteria without a scientific basis. Problems were detected, a strong and immediate response was defined. The government is doing what needs to be done with determination and rigour. in a matter as important as that of school meals, we must take safe and decisive steps. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u59	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Ecological Party « The Greens have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The scandals concerning school meals are known, scandals that have come to the public because children and young people in this country face this problem directly and daily in schools. It is not just a quality problem, as happened scandalously at that school in Queijas where raw chicken was served to children, it is also a problem related to the amount of food that is placed in the dish to be served to children. Many parents have been addressed to the Assembly of the Republic over the years to mention precisely the lack of quantity and quality of these meals. in fact, these most worrying situations happen in the canteens that are granted to private companies and we cannot ignore this situation. But the most worrying thing is that, when these situations happen and are detected, one closes one's eyes to the non-compliance of these companies with the contracts and the manuals of charges that they have to ensure. That is to say, a warning is made and it swirls to the side. in fact, we believe that these scandals are of such order and in such a recurrent way that there is an effective justification for many times, as Mrs Sandra Pontedeira, of the PS, said, but in the opposite sense precisely to terminate contracts with these companies or at least not to favour the renewal of contracts. Therefore, what happens is that when the management of the canteens was directly assigned to schools, these situations did not occur at least with the recurrence and severity with which they now occur. contrary to what Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS said recently, the problem is not only in the small base price per meal, but also in the fact that these companies, of course, want to make profit from the meal provided to children and young people in our schools, try to save as much as possible. And they're trying to save what kind of thing? in staff, who has a small schedule, which does not often have a contract, which has to perform various tasks, such as cleaning, inventory, kitchen, dining service and so many other things with perfectly inappropriate schedules and wages that are not spoken. There is therefore a shortage of staff that cannot respond to the actual needs of this service. On the other hand, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS is very concerned that the direct management of the canteens by schools means an increase in the number of employees. We're sorry, Mrs. Deputy! That's right! Without employees, public services don't work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u61	The honourable Member doesn't want to know about meals, or he's more employees!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u62	Therefore, regarding the need to ensure the quality and quantity of meals served to our children and young people, we cannot argue with the need to save by restricting the number of public servants.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u63	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u64	I will finish, Mr. President. In addition, cooks cannot enter the ratio of operational assistants so that a certain school budget can be used for children and young people and then withdraw into another component where operational assistants are fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u65	Talk to the unions! He's just talking to the customers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u66	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa said that school directors cannot be concerned if the supplier has delivered material or not,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u67	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u68	... but may already be concerned about the need for effective supervision of these companies. Well, it can't be, ma'am. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u69	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the third point of our agenda today, which consists of the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 343 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 233 / 2008 of 2 December regulating the exercise of the right of association by the professionals of the Republican National Guard ( GNR ) ( PCP ), 547 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the GNR for the weekly reference time ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 30 / 2017 of 22 March) ( PCP ), 549 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The Statute of the GNR rests justice on the right to a holiday ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 30 / 2017 of 22 March) ( PCP ) and 677 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Military of the Republican National Guard, as regards working time ( NAP ). To present the PCP bills, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group today presents three bills aimed at improving the working conditions of GNR professionals. The GNR professionals carry out a difficult, demanding, worn-out and of great importance to our country, so it is required that these professionals be guaranteed the conditions necessary for the performance of their missions. In addition to ensuring access to adequate means at the level of cars, equipment and installations, it is necessary to ensure a set of rights which compensates professionals for the wear and tear that the performance of their duties involves and allows them to recover physically. Thus, the PCP Parliamentary Group presents two bills aimed at improving the GNR Statute with regard to the right to holiday and the right to a working time. After decades of fighting for the consecration of a working time in the GNR, these professionals achieved the consecration of a reference time through a door door. We do not ignore the effort made for the approval of the door office, but it is important to enshrine in the GNR Statute the working hours of 36 hours, equivalent to what is happening today in the PSP, and thus to give force of law to this right and thus make a contribution to the elimination of the resistances that still exist today to the consecration of a working hours for these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u72	in the other diploma also related to the Staff Regulations of GNR professionals, the CFP proposes an amendment aimed at restoring the right to a holiday that these professionals had and improving the mechanisms for reconciling personal and family life. in fact, the new Statute, approved by the current Government, recorded a decrease in holiday days and the CFP Parliamentary Group considers this backwardness unacceptable. Finally, we present a bill that aims to improve association rights in GNR. The history of associationism in the GNR, with the creation of the APG ( Association of Professional Guards ) — whose associates present in the galleries we take advantage of — and other associations, shows that they play a very important role in defending the rights of professionals and consequently defend and promote the GNR institution. For the CFP it is clear that there is no democracy without the participation of workers and, within the framework of security forces and services, it is through the professional associations that represent who, day by day, builds the GNR. The CFP Parliamentary Group, with these legislative initiatives, aims to enshrine the figure of the associate delegate and improve the rights of the leaders of professional associations, with the conviction that by deepening the association rights, we are bringing more democracy to the functioning of the CNG. With these initiatives, the CFP Parliamentary Group makes a contribution to improving the working conditions of GNR professionals. We believe that these legislative improvements are fundamental to justice, but we are also aware that improving the working conditions of professionals is improving the GNR itself and its functioning. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u73	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the CFP for the scheduling of these legislative initiatives, which we are accompanying by presenting a legislative initiative. The maximum working time of the Republican National Guard military is 40 hours a week. in reality, the application of the reference time of 40 hours per week is very recent in the GNR, which was only in force about a year ago, resulting from numerous acts of claim by GNR professionals. It should be noted that, until the above legislation entered into force, GNR professionals were the only Portuguese citizens without the right to a working time, making themselves the dead letter of the Constitution itself. In this regard, it is stressed that the Basic Law stipulates that « it is up to the State to ensure the conditions of work, remuneration and rest to which workers are entitled, by establishing the limits of the duration of work». It should be noted that this working time represents, in many services, a simple reference, since these professionals work invariably more than 40 hours a week, adding to the practice of paid services not accounted for for for by credit. It is a profession of risk and high wear, with schedules for shifts and irregularly and often fulfilled under adverse conditions. We emphasize that there are studies whose conclusion lies in a sharp decrease in the average life expectancy of 11 years associated with these professionals. Considering that the Public Safety Police presents a working time of 36 hours per week and the general nature of the public service is 35 hours per week, the NAP considers that a 36 hours weekly working time should be established for GNR professionals, not perceiving any explanation for the differentiated treatment of perfectly similar professional aspects. In view of the above, the NAP considers that it is the most elementary justice to standardize worktime regimes, establishing a working time of 36 hours per week for GNR professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u75	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : The GNR has, well, increasingly adopted a model of proximity police, defined as a form of security management implemented in proximity with the population in order to respond, through a priority preventive police action, to their carefully identified needs and taken into account. It is therefore increasingly, in practice, a demilitarized security force and service whose legal framework still considers it to be militarized force, resulting in various constraints as regards the rights of association and representation and, consequently, the ability to negotiate working conditions, as well as the exercise of rights, as it is, and well referred to in one of the draft laws presented by the CFP today. Indeed, there are important differences in comparison with other security forces and services in Portugal, particularly in relation to the PSP, and because the bills discussed here today aim in some way to standardise the guarantee of the exercise of these rights and the conditions for the exercise of the functions of the elements of the security forces and services, the Left Block is generally in favour of these changes. with regard to draft law No 343 / XIII ( 2. a ), are proposed amendments aimed at the effective possibility of the exercise of representation of the socio-professional associations of the GNR, as well as the guarantee of the availability necessary to the leaders of these associations, being operated an approach to what is defined for the PSP, but which has, however, recently, prompted a set of amendments following the identification of various problems and limitations. The Left Block monitors this bill, but will not fail to consider the need for some amendments in the field of expertise. Regarding the other draft laws under consideration, the authorship of the PCP and the NAP, concerning the weekly reference time and the right to holiday, it is important to note that they correspond and respond to the old demands of the GNR but also to the replacement of justice for other Portuguese workers and workers. The Left Block considers that the fulfilment of the right to weekly reference time of GNR elements cannot in any way be limited by the capacity of services with respect to human resources, or by abusive interpretations, and we know that this is what happens. Finally, with regard to the right to holiday, the target of so many struggles and so many advances and retreats throughout history—and we cannot forget the abject attack of the right government on the right to holiday, the reduction they imposed on the right to rest, physical and psychological recovery and the reconciliation between professional and family life—, the Left Block also accompanies the replacement of the right to rest and the fundamental right to holiday of GNR professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u77	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva spoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u78	Mr President — whom I welcome — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subjects we are discussing today, the exercise of the right of association, the right to holiday and the working hours of the GNR military are of the utmost importance and must, of course, call for a reflection of all of us and also our concern. This debate cannot forget three factors that must always be on the table and on which it is essential to think: I am speaking, obviously and firstly, of the legitimate interests and rights of the GNR military in these demands; I am also talking about the factual possibility and on the ground of the implementation of the solutions presented; and I am also talking about the military condition of the GNR that, obviously, we should not abdicate and by which the CDS has always beaten. Therefore, the solution of these problems that are at issue must be found in the balance and balance of these three factors, can never be seen alone, because, if so necessarily, we will leave some of the solutions. So this is where we have to reflect. however, this reflection cannot be only and exclusively made by this House. The resolution of these issues must be done with the action of the Government, it cannot be done, I repeat, only and exclusively here. These are matters which, without any doubt, are the responsibility of the Government to attend, but also to resolve; it is not the responsibility of this Parliament. And it's simple to understand why. Only the Government has all the data of the equation in order to be able to understand what can be done in this area, particularly the conditions on the ground and, to the limit, it must always take into account the safety of the populations. We all know examples of GNR posts closed at 17 hours, examples of posts that only have one military — and this happens in this country outside several regions. In addition, I should like to recall that, in the course of the implementation of the 40-hour reference time, which the Government recently implemented, Mr. Commander-General warned that in some parts of the country the implementation of the reference time would require staff to be strengthened in some places, under the penalty of closure, with obvious damage to the populations. where these are very serious problems that the CDS does not ignore, but that the PCP has to resolve within the house, of the government house of which it is also part, and do not bring to the Assembly of the Republic the solution of a problem that cannot be solved within the government, which is yours and which often forget that it is yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u80	So just make the 'number' that you are very concerned and present draft resolutions to this House without solving the problem with the government does not matter at all, because it does not solve anything. Only the number is made and, at the end of the accounts, everything is the same, and that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u81	That's taking responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u82	Therefore, Mr President, resolving implies action, and responsibility is also yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u83	Then vote! We'll vote soon!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u84	So you have to do inside the house what you don't want to do or can't do...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u85	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u86	Finally, Mr President, and thanking for the tolerance, I just wanted to say that it is not enough to say 'we tried and failed'. It is necessary to resolve, and that is in your hands to do so with the government! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u87	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor for an intervention. Ms. Susana Amador ( PS ). — Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Guard has a mission, within the framework of national security and protection systems, to ensure democratic legality, to ensure internal security and the rights of citizens, as well as to collaborate in the implementation of the national defence policy, in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the law. We know that security is an essential value in democratic societies and its strength is directly proportional to the climate of well-being that the State, through the government, is capable of providing people or not. in the context of the discussion of the Annual Report on Internal Security, we had the opportunity to see the continued decline of general crime, violent crime and, at that time, we welcomed the security forces, in particular the GNR, the men and women at their service that protect us daily, guarantee public security and tranquillity and give the best of themselves in functions that we know are of particular necessity. With regard to the initiatives under discussion today, the authorship of the CFP and also of the NAP, we want above all to raise a few points. As regards the exercise of the right of association by GNR professionals, it is urgent to stress the political and historical importance of Law No 39 / 2004, which established the general principles and bases of the right of professional association of the GNR and its regulations, operated by Decree-Law No 233 / 2008. They intend the proposers, as has already been said, to amend the drafting of certain provisions and to establish the right of representation of the socio-professional associations of GNR staff with the units and subunits, affixing the figure of the association delegate, to eliminate provisions which are deemed to be limiting the autonomy of the socio-professional associations and which create functional dependency links between them and their respective command, and to ensure the availability necessary for the leaders of the associations to perform their associated functions. It should be pointed out that, in the normal exercise of its activity and on its own initiative, as has happened, and within its own statutes, nothing currently prevents the associations from creating representatives who are deconcentrated by the various units of the GNR and who can benefit from the regime of dispensation in force. We also have nothing to oppose in relation to the right to affix documents, since it is a common practice. Above all, we would like to stress that the associationism exercised by the military must follow its own rules that are compatible with the military nature of the hierarchical structures in which they are inserted, and there should be some caution in the use of the concepts of the justified failure regime — without a time limit — and appropriate use of criteria of proportional representation, and that the existing hierarchy in the military environment should be respected, situations which the initiative does not ensure, in our view, with due balance. with regard to the amendment of the GNR Statute for the weekly reference time, it should be noted that it was the current Government, with the approval of Ordinance No 222/2016 of 22 July 2016, which for the first time proceeded to regulate the weekly reference time which, despite provided for in Article 26. the GNR Military Statute had never been implemented. in this regulation, it sought to correspond to a fair claim already long ago defended by the military, but that we had to harmonize with the regime of the military condition and reconcile criteria of functional effectiveness, with the balance between the duty of availability, effective performance of professional obligations, reconciliation with family life and the fundamental principles relating to internationally recognized and accepted work activity. Also in the 2016 ministerial order were defined rest rules and guiding principles for the application of that same time. Since we are at an embryonic stage of implementation of this regime, it seems to us that we are still premature to move forward to a solution such as that of the PCP and PAN bills. Finally, with the approval of GNR's new military status, it was intended to ensure the convergence of the GNR's annual holiday period with the general regime, which would last for 22 working days, a rule which also coincides with the regime established for the Armed Forces military and for PSP police personnel.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u88	I would like to finish, Madam Member, because it has already exceeded its time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u89	I shall terminate immediately, Mr President. We also want to say that this statute allows such conciliation and interruption on grounds of illness or the use of any other licence. Finally, I would like to say that Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has had meetings with representatives of professional associations in recent days so that these and other proposals can be properly evaluated and analysed and we are sure that these meetings will enable us to find a basis for work and convergence to resolve some of these issues, since dialogue is essential to democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u90	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José Silvano has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP and the NAP today bring some amendments to the GNR Statute, including the elimination of statutory provisions which eliminate the autonomy of professional associations, the holiday scheme and the reference time. It is worth saying that we all have to ensure the rights and guarantees to the GNR. It has failed to tell the CFP and the NAP that we must do so within the framework of the Constitution and its legal status as a military force. Not to say this is to bypass the whole debate and it is, in a nutshell, to take up a few questions here. I mean, with all the frontality, that the CFP is consistent in this perspective. It is consistent and persistent, because it often presents small amendments, which are called « improvements », to the military status of the GNR. Its specific condition is never mentioned and, as always, its final goal is to end the current dual security forces system and walk to a single body of security forces. But it was preferable to assume it with all the frontality! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u92	Of course it is an intention that is not publicly assumed, because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of the explanatory statement on these and other initiatives on this matter, this is clear, because it always says that what is at present — and always says 'at this moment' — is not the amendment to the Statute. In addition, in the explanatory statement of these proposals, the following sentence is characteristic and revealing to me: « in this new political framework and with a different correlation of forces», the conditions for making these amendments are met. It was only a mistake to add: if the PS is in agreement with this, which is this majority that wants patriotic and left-wing, to change this military status. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u93	Let's see if that patriotic and left-wing majority with the Socialist Party happens or not in this House! We voted against, clearly and objectively, by historical coherence and by the importance of GNR forces for national security and the fight against crime. [[PCP protests.]] But, attention, because we vote against it, we are not in disagreement with some measures to defend rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u94	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u95	It was we who, in 2014 — I repeat, in 2004 — approved this right of association in a PSD/CDS-PP government. It was a PSD and CDS-PP government that approved this right of association in 2004. Therefore, My Friends, in this specific framework we are waiting for the management, this time, to fail to respect this historical coherence and make here such a majority that has changed to change this legislation. It's with you! We're waiting! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u96	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, has the floor again for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are witnessing a set of interventions — the part of the celestial music of the violins playing — which have a point in common, which is that of the praises by the GNR, in which we all agree, there is no doubt, but when we come to the discussion of rights, what we had was a set of arguments. Therefore, the PS, through Mrs Susana Amador, uses the military status and the justification that it is all right within the GNR and says that what is needed is some dialogue to make any legislative amendment. Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, is concerned about the military status and is not concerned about the rights enshrined for these professionals—there is no other concern, they have to be military—and this justification serves to burden and massacre the rights of professionals, which is completely unacceptable. [[PCP applause.]] Then we had the intervention of the CDS, which often fills the mouths about the security forces but which, in this matter, falls short of what should be done. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] They speak in execution difficulties, giving voice to internal resistances, which today exist in the GNR, to the application of a reference time...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u98	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u99	... and — I shall finish — they take responsibility for the government. We are about to vote on this matter, and we will soon see the Members who stand up and those who sit down.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u100	If it is consistent, present a motion of censure, which I am voting for!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u101	There are no half-sights: either they agree to solve the problems or they disagree and sit down. It is your responsibility when you vote on these matters from here shortly. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u102	You have a motion of censure and the CDS votes in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u103	Mrs. Members, let us move to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 909 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review of the Convention of Albufeira ( The Greens ), 1154 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the urgent revision of the Albufeira Convention ( BE ), 1161 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the review of the Albufeira Convention ( PCP ) and 1165 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the proceedings of the Albufeira Convention ( PAN ). In order to start the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of water resources is not foreign to relations between Portugal and Spain in view of the sharing of rivers which has over time forced the consensualization of bilateral instruments that would allow non-conflict management of these resources. Thus, in 1998 it was signed that which was known as the Albufeira Convention, which entered into force in 2000. However, the situations in which the intention to carry forward Spanish projects with impacts on international rivers were not timely were opposed to resistance in the assessment of cross-border impacts or the provision of relevant information due. For example only, it is possible to remember Spanish transvases, the process of refining, with impact on Guadiana or, more recently, the exploitation of uranium in Salamanca, with impact on Douro, or the project for nuclear waste storage in Almaraz, with impact on the Tejo. The management of the flows agreed in the Convention has been one of the problems that Portugal has faced, considering the need to redefine criteria for determining the flow system of the waters of the Luso-Spanish hydrographic basins, having been established in 2008 a second additional protocol to the Albufeira Convention, and the established caudals were not found on the basis of the preservation and guarantee of river ecosystems and the contribution of the river to sustainability and resilience, up to the coast, but on the basis of the hydroelectric interests. Quarterly and weekly tails were predicted, but the truth is that the defined tails were never the ecological tails and did not hesitate to opt for day-to-day tails. There were few times when the news reported a harsh reality, such as: « Water available in Guadiana forces consumption to be reduced » in 2009 ; « Spain makes new Tejo transvase without fulfilling minimums » in 2010 ; « Spain reduces the flow of Douro below the minimums » in 2012. This is just an example. These reports account for recurrent breaches of the Albufeira Convention, always denied by successive Portuguese governments, and thus represent an urgent need for revision of the Albufeira Convention. It is also public knowledge that in the joint position signed between the Greens and the PS, the need for a review of the Albufeira Convention has been established in order to ensure greater sustainability of our international rivers. 17 years have passed since this Convention entered into force. During its duration it is undeniable that Portugal has had problems with the management of its international rivers, and therefore time to review this arrangement. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens are presenting a draft resolution with a view to this renegotiating with the Spanish Government, but we have established some set of many concrete items, including deadlines for such review. We know that these deadlines do not take up, let us say, consensus on the part of all parliamentary groups and, in view of the prerogative established by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the Republic, the Greens Parliamentary Group is available for this draft resolution to be brought down to its committee without a vote — in fact, we have already made a request to the Bureau in that direction — so that we can consensualise a text which has the greatest possible consensus on the part of the other parliamentary groups. We are very serious about this, for the sake of the sustainability of our international rivers and our territory and, in this sense, is the proposal we make.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u105	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block presents a draft resolution recommending that the Government take action towards the urgent review of the so-called Albufeira Convention, the Convention on Cooperation for the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Watersheds of the Luso-Spanish Hydrographic Basins. It must also be said that already on the 27th day in Porto is marked at 20. the Commission's plenary meeting on the implementation and development of the Convention, i.e. we are at the right time for the government to initiate the process of revision of the Albufeira Convention, which should have been launched longer, but which cannot wait any longer. Furthermore, at the last Iberian summit held in Vila Real, the Left Block had already recommended to the Government that this review process of the Albufeira Convention be placed on top of the table in the debate with the Spanish Government. The objectives of the Convention make every sense in the shared river basins in the rivers Mininho, Lima, Douro, Tejo and Guadiana. These objectives are essential: the balance between environmental protection and the use of water resources; the need for risk prevention; and also the coordination of water mass management. The objectives are correct, but the problem is that they are or are not met, as, in fact, it has already been reported by Zero, environmentalist association, or, then, its execution does not work or works very badly. The situation we are living in in the river Tejo river basin is the most demanding example with « skeletal » tails that aggravate all problems of pollution and ecological sustainability of the Portuguese rivers, and the Tejo river is the most demanding example of non-compliance with the criteria and objectives of the Albufeira Convention. So something is wrong and has to be changed. The problem is, in fact, in the criteria and the problem is that we cannot continue to determine this water management of the water basins common for the interests of hydroelectric production, electrical companies, both in Spain and Portugal. The water quantity criteria, after flow rates, cannot continue to be the monthly or weekly ones that are sufficient for hydroelectric production; the criteria must become regular daily, because these are the only ones that allow the sustainability of the ecological systems of these hydrographic basins. The quantity of water is an essential issue and must be regulated in order to ensure, in fact, minimum daily ecological flows. Water quality is another of the essential criteria, which is not mentioned in the current Albufeira Convention. Not only is there a quantity problem, but it is also a quality problem, and this review of the Albufeira Convention must include the need for monitoring to ensure that quality parameters are observed for the various supplies, but also for the maintenance of ecological systems. The Convention cannot fail to take into account two potential risks that are present today, especially in the Douro and Tejo basins. A course of the Almaraz Nuclear Central, on the banks of the Tagus, is essential that the Albufeira Convention provides for measures in relation to this potential risk, this huge risk, which continues to exist on the river Tejo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u107	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u108	I'm done now, Mr. President. Another potential risk has to do with the new threat to the Douro river basin, which arises with the insistence of the Spanish authorities to install a new uranium mine in Retortillo, a few kilometres from the border of Portugal and on the Douro river basin. It is therefore essential in this sense that the revision of the Convention should be carried out. Another potential risk — to end, Mr President — has to do with the fact that we are facing a new climate framework, which stems from climate change and cannot fail to be a central aspect of the review process of the Albufeira Convention. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u109	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the Greens Ecological Party for the relevance, relevance and update of the subject which brings us to the debate today and which relates to the common management of our water resources, namely the watersheds we share with Spain and which are part of the so-called Albufeira Convention on Cooperation for the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Watersheds of the Luso-Spanish Watersheds. The Albufeira Convention has always deserved from the outset doubts and concerns of the CFP, on the one hand because of the position of fragility and sub-alternisation of the country vis-à-vis Spain and, on the other, because it does not ensure national interests and sovereignty, subjecting them to the interests of concessionaires of electrical production. over time, the conditions laid down in the Albufeira Convention and even in the previous arrangements gave reason to the concerns of the CFP. The country abdicated the right to use all the afluents of Spain and some of the national flows of the Douro and Tejo river basins, even when the water was scarcer and there was a much greater need.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u112	The CFP considers that Portugal's obligation to release certain amounts of water into the sea in the Tejo and Douro estuary is meaningless when the objective of this agreement was to manage the water mass that covers both countries. As the estuaries are in our country, it is up to Portugal to take this decision in a sovereign manner. In addition, the fact that this obligation extends to its own and taily flows of national afluents, such as the Thamega, Côa and Zêzere, shows Portugal's abdication of its rights and sovereignty over water. The granting of several dams, removing them from state management and placing them in the hands of the large economic groups, which aim at profit and their interests and not the interests of the populations, also demonstrates to the evidence the prevalence of commercial interests and the lack of capacity by Portugal to plan and manage their basins, even though this implies challenging other uses, namely the ecological one. The Tejo River, where the minimum ecological flows are not guarded, is at risk, occurring in several sections the absorption, at the same time as a huge reduction in flow, pollution and loss of biodiversity. The use of water for other purposes such as agriculture, industry and even public supply is dependent on the needs and interests of electricity production in our country. The quality of water entering Portugal is not monitored by the Portuguese State, which does not guarantee the preservation of the country's biodiversity and ecosystems and does not defend national interests. The CFP considers that it is up to the Portuguese Government, within the framework of international and diplomatic relations, and in respect of the sovereignty of States, to ensure and safeguard national interests and sovereignty. The CFP therefore proposes that the Portuguese Government initiate a review process of the Albufeira Convention in order to ensure national interests in which it defends the establishment of minimum and maximum instantaneous flows at the border and withdraws the obligation to throw water into the sea in the estuary, among other aspects. We also advocate that the capacity to regularize the use of Alqueva should not be compromised and that measuring instruments should be introduced at the border ensuring the control and monitoring of water quality parameters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u113	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rules on the protection and sustainable development of cross-border waters we share with Spain are enshrined in the Albufeira Convention, which entered into force in January 2000. One of the problems of this Convention is that, despite establishing weekly flows, it does not provide for daily flows. This situation leads to management of tails incompatible with the ecological needs of rivers that are affecting the preservation of biodiversity and ecosystems. Spain is not doing balanced management on a weekly scale with days almost without water to pass to Portugal compensated for days with much larger volumes to reach the agreed averages. The Albufeira Convention places the economic interests of electro-producers, which have the grant of hydro-electric dams above the balance of ecosystems. It is sufficient to note that the caudal scheme is the most convenient for the exploitation of the dams granted, which is above other economic uses and which is jeopardizing ecological values. Climate change and the current drought situation exacerbate cross-border river management and will accentuate the mismanagement of these ecological assets by opening up a new reality to this sharing of resources. The urgency of the review of the agreement is required. This should be revised and improved, adjusted to ecological needs and economic activities, applied in a transparent and more controlled manner. We therefore propose: to ensure a review of this Convention and that its results are achieved before the end of 2018, to ensure an open debate for civil society ; to ensure ecological flows in all international river basins; to also implement daily minimum flows such as Tejo and Douro ; and finally to ensure that all monitoring stations are fully functioning in both countries, and that their data are regularly entered into the official website of the Convention for easy consultation and analysis by all concerned. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot postpone what is already late. If this agreement does not guarantee the preservation of biodiversity and the balance of our country's ecosystems, it means that it does not respect the sovereignty of the Portuguese State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u115	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr José Manuel Carpinteira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the Greens Ecological Party for bringing this important initiative to debate. The Luso-Spanish Summit, held in Vila Real last May, addressed cooperation on water resources, with the two countries highlighting the progress made in the Commission on the Application and Development of the Albufeira Convention. at that summit, the common provision was made to advance the deepening of the flow system of the Albufeira Convention and the Commission was mandated to ensure that this can be done over the next year. The Albufeira Convention, signed in 1998, lays down in Article 1. the, which the parties within the Commission define for each river basin the flow system necessary to ensure the good state of the water, current and future uses. In 2008, the flow regime was redefined when a Second Additional Protocol to the Albufeira Convention was established, which set minimum values for quarterly and weekly flows. However, the problem of the Albufeira Convention is that it mentions quarterly and weekly tails, but does not provide daily tails. This situation leads to a wide variation in the flows, contrary to the ecological needs of rivers and may also be detrimental to the economic activities that depend on cross-border rivers. It will therefore be necessary to negotiate with Spain daily tails that meet the ecological needs of rivers. In any case, it should be noted that the Albufeira Convention is an instrument for managing cross-border rivers which has protected Portugal. The stipulated tails are being fulfilled by Spain, although they have been in a dry state for about five years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Climate change and the current drought situation in the Iberian Peninsula aggravate cross-border river management and put a new reality in that sharing of resources. in this sense, the Ministers of the Environment of Portugal and Spain have met for days in Porto to discuss the current drought situation of the two countries and the concerns about the common management of the waters, having been agreed on the establishment of negotiations leading to an agreement on the caudal regime, and the scope of the outcome of this process, whose time horizon will be the year 2018, will depend on the cost of the negotiations, given that the review will have to be carried out by mutual agreement. It is therefore necessary to note that a review process of the Albufeira Convention should be carefully considered and analysed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u117	You have the floor, also for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolutions we are discussing today are all essentially about the need to review the Albufeira Convention next year. Water management is indeed a matter of greater importance in relations between Portugal and Spain, in particular because of the sharing of water resources, and calls for particular attention from their governments. The agreements concluded in this context culminated in the signing of the Albufeira Convention, in 1998, subsequently completed with the Caudal Review Protocol, in 2008. It's good to remember that, in the 3rd. the Conference of the Parties, in 2015, the Governments of the height, Portuguese ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and Spanish, agreed to intensify the coordination and follow-up mechanisms with regard to the established flows, thus opening the way for the review of the Convention. Now, what we have seen here today, Mr President and Mr. Members, it is to take 2 of the series « given word, honored word », produced by the government and carried out by « management ». 15 days ago, we had take 1, with the maneuvering of renewable rates, with the PS voting here in plenary, the opposite of what I had voted and agreed, on the eve of the day, with its partners. Today, the Government's partners are calling on Parliament to vote on something which the Government has signed and which it has committed to but which it is not, by the way, honoring or, at least, afraid that it will not be honored.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u120	It is because the Greens, who subscribe to the first initiative here under discussion, have included this in the Government Agreement which they concluded with the PS in 2015 in the said joint position which Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has already mentioned here today, and which, even yesterday, in the 15-year debate, also recalled Mr Prime Minister. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, bearing in mind this matter of the agreement they have reached with the Government, why do you not ask the Government, in your meetings at the closed door, which are part of your agreements, to review the Albufeira Convention and come here to bring this matter to Parliament, so that we can basically vote on what cannot be negotiated within the house? Oh, my God! It is appropriate to ask whether they do not really trust the Government's word or if they do not trust the government's ability — I think this will be more — to solve the situation. In fact, at the beginning of this year, the Minister for the Environment stated that it was the intention of the Government to move forward for the review of the Albufeira Convention and that Spain also recognized the need to review that Convention. last November the Minister once again stated the need to review the Convention, in particular with regard to the daily and non-weekly measurement of caudals, as is the case, and also said that Spain should fulfil the best undertaking to send water to Portugal. Then, at last week's meeting with your Spanish counterpart, also mentioned here, Mr Minister quickly changed his opinion, saying that Spain, after all, fully abides by the Convention and that it is not at the time of drought that the caudals were negotiated. The fact is that the drought has been installed since April, the CDS has been alerting to this situation since that date and has even proposed measures. The drought has worsened, the government does not implement any effective measures or, in particular, supports the farmers, who have so requested, and the Minister is still waiting for it to rain or for the problem to be solved by you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u121	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u122	Finally, Mr President, the Minister, in this case as in so many others, such as the construction of the Almaraz nuclear waste store, just to give an example, has been completely powerless to overcome the Spanish will and carry out his intentions to safeguard national interests. That is why we are all discussing this in Parliament today. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u123	The next item is Mr Mauricio Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution submitted by The Greens is a manifestation of protest and distrust of the word given and written by the current government. The initiative under discussion states that the review of the Albufeira Convention is part of a commitment undertaken by the Government. following the agreements established for the formation of the current Government, the following was included in its Programme: to develop Portuguese-Spanish cooperation in the water sector, in particular by reviewing the actions and measures provided for in the Albufeira Convention, with a view, inter alia, to the implementation of joint management plans for shared watersheds, ensuring the objective of ensuring environmental requirements and national interests. That is to say, this is written in the Government Programme. After two years of term of office, what has the government done significant in this area? I think the answer is clear: the government had done something significant and the Greens Ecological Party would have no need to present this draft resolution. And more serious than that: it did not do so and the Greens are afraid that it will not do so, so they felt the need to present a draft resolution that recommends that the Government comply with its Programme. The current Minister's statements that "we never use a year's drought to negotiate caudals" do not reassure us. It is called to this « go to wool and come from there coughing». He has already had the Minister and other climate conditions to honour the commitments made under his Programme. The concern expressed by the Greens is also a concern which is of concern to us. And this concern is not now nor is it dictated by the adverse effects of the severe and extreme drought that we are witnessing. This concern was expressed in writing — underlining, in writing — and not in conversation outside of any meeting. Recognizing the need for a review of the Albufeira Convention, former Environment Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva took the initiative to promote the third meeting of the Conference of the Parties in 17 years. of the conclusions of this meeting, held in Porto, on 20 July 2015, is the assessment of the activity carried out by the working group in the preparation of monitoring programmes for the state of the water masses, to be carried out by Portugal and Spain, which created conditions to initiate the review of the Convention, this review with which the PSD agrees and finds it extremely necessary. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u125	You now have the floor for a second speech, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps you should remember the PSD and the CDS that they had been in government for four years without the review of the Albufeira Convention. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u127	And now you come to say you're in favor? Oh, my God! At the time, we also pressured, but you didn't. Have you met a Conference of the Parties—is that enough? Oh, my God! Of course not. Therefore, in this Parliament, we have been careful to place this matter in the joint position, as I said, in order to pressure the Government of the Socialist Party to do so. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, we did not operate with secret meetings and at the closed door, as you worked. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] We bring the materials to the Assembly of the Republic! We are in dialogue with the government, but it is here, openly, in front of all Portuguese, that we make our proposals! We're sorry! You did everything behind the Portuguese, secretly, but not us! We don't work like that, Mrs. Deputies! We're sorry, but that's why we disagreed! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u128	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 909 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 1154 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 1161 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 1165 / XIII ( 3. ( a). We now turn to the report of the Possible Parliamentary Inquiry Committee for the Action of the XXI Constitutional Government on the Appointment and Withdrawal of Dr. António Domingues'Administration. Mr José Pedro Aguiar Branco, President of the Committee on Investigation, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, first of all, all Members and all Members. Members who joined this Committee of Inquiry, through the urban, loyal and collaborative form as the work took place. in a legislature where this has not happened, I think it is a relevant point to highlight. in this measure, my work as President was quite facilitated. Respect for and cooperation between all, despite the different natural views on the facts under investigation, enabled the Commission to meet the objective for which it was set up. He said, in taking office as President, that this should not be the SMS Committee (short message service) and that the matter to be dealt with should be a lot on that issue. Today, the day we close the work, I can say that the objective has been met. It was possible to draw concrete conclusions with regard to the performance of the Government, in particular the Ministry of Finance, either with regard to Dr. António Domingues or with regard to the General Deposit Box. Regardless of the conclusions expressed in the final report, the open, assertive and clear manner in which statements were provided in the hearings took place allows for an impartial and impartial look that remains little doubt as to the truth of the facts concerned. Today's work also reinforces the need to review some procedures regarding the functioning of parliamentary committees of inquiry. In order for them to fully carry out their mission, it is urgent to reduce the mechanisms that allow for speeding up and instructing the process which must lead to the fully informed final decision. It is also urgent to strengthen a culture of greater accountability for all stakeholders in the committee, eliminating suspicions that party interests prevail over the highest investigative, independent and equidistant interest for the benefit of the public cause. I am referring to certain episodes such as the early publication of the proposal for a report in the media, without the fact that it had previously been handed over to the Commission, or the refusal of certain entities involved in providing the information and documentation required and legally due. The committees of inquiry are one of the most noble and important instruments which Parliament has at its disposal to carry out its constitutional duties. The worst service we can offer to democracy and Parliament is to allow the committees of inquiry to finish their work with the widespread idea that, apart from the political struggle, they serve little or nothing and, worse still, there is no consequence for those who refuse, without justification or plausible justification, to contribute to the clarification of the truth, ignoring the investigative powers of the judicial authorities given by law to the committees of inquiry. I therefore decided for the first time to make a contribution to the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic by concealing information from the Commission by certain entities. This is an appeal provided for in the current Legal Regime of the Investigation Committees and it has never been used. The dignification of Parliament, respect for the role of a Member and the greater accountability of all those involved in a parliamentary inquiry must be consistent with the punishment of those who violate the rules of a commission of inquiry such as the excellent instrument of monitoring compliance with the Constitution and the laws and assessment of the acts of government and administration. I hope I've contributed to that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u130	I now give the floor to the rapporteur for this Parliamentary Inquiry Committee, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The nature and object of this Committee of Inquiry, including its activity solely in accordance with the statements provided, the inquiries made and the answers obtained, as well as through the documents together, determine that the report drawn up and the conclusions submitted by it may be none other than those contained therein. The effort and scope, directed by the subject and subordinated to the facts established, allow almost in parallel with each of the versions submitted by the respondents, to mirror the Commission's work. The discussion led us to a start of approaches on concepts and interpretations proper to legal analysis, whose observation determines the technical use of hermeneutics itself. As regards the progress of the work, the work was always carried out expeditiously and in order to correspond to the object of the Commission. The statements were sufficiently enlightening so that it would be possible to ascertain how much there was, not setting up any other object which would make it impossible to draw conclusions. After a preliminary version, which met in its matrix what had been found in the Commission, we also counted on the contributions of the Left Block and the CDS, which, like the Communist Party of Portugal, have reverted to the work base proposed by the rapporteur. Proposals for amendments, if not entirely, were widely accepted in the final version, which were opposed to an alternative version submitted by the PSD and only supported the conviction of the PSD itself. The favourable vote of the PS, the Left Block and the PCP and the no less relevant abstention of the CDS constitute evidence that, if it is not possible to prove a certain fact, the inverse fact is not automatic proof, as if the reasoning to the contrary was, itself, the rule and the constancy of all assessments. With regard to the conclusions, Dr. António Domingues' starting conditions, in particular the appropriate recapitalisation, the removal of the Public Manager's Statute and the possible exemption from the obligation to deliver declarations of heritage and income were consolidated due to the first having occurred in a manner and in accordance with the total expectations of all actors, having the General Deposit Box being properly restructured and recapitalised. On the other hand, I cannot fail to quote the last excerpt of the report itself: “The resignation of seven administrators determined that Dr. António Domingues considered the difficulties he would have in managing the General Deposit Box, so he himself pointed out that the ‘public debate which had been held about the issue of terms of employment ’ in his request for resignation on 24 November 2016 had removed the conditions for ‘fully fulfilling the obligations and assuming the responsibilities arising from the acceptance of that invitation. ’ The exit of Dr. António Domingues, as can easily be seen, derives not from any aspect related to the administration of the General Deposit Box, since all the objectives to which it was proposed had been achieved, but from issues of relation to the shareholder, built on the basis of assumptions that the person himself judged to be acquired, in view of the understanding that made the scope of the amendment of the Statute of the Public Manager. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u132	Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We voted against this report because it is structured not with the concern to report the truth reached, but rather to ensure a minimum political support for the alternative reality that the government has built. In our view, it was clear from the work that the Commission was able to carry out that: yes, Dr. António Domingues, at the time of the invitation, placed as a condition the removal of the obligation to declare his patrimony to the Constitutional Court ; yes, the Government accepted this condition and therefore advanced with the amendment to the law, although in a manner which he declared himself incompetent ; yes, the remaining management team was invited on that assumption ; yes, Dr. António Domingues and his team presented the resignation when the Government did not honour the agreement nor had the hombrety to acknowledge that it was receding in what it had committed itself ; and, yes, the value of more than EUR 5000 million of the money of the taxpayers who had ascended the bank's recapitalisation did not result from any breach of the unreasonable ratios, which the Box has always complied with, but before a unilateral decision of the Government, which wanted to alter the criterion of recognition of impartiality. None of these are extraordinary revelations because, in fact, the Portuguese generality had already understood what actually happened. The extraordinary is that two committees of inquiry have been required to recognise the obvious. Even so, it must be said that this second committee was also the subject of a systematic practice of obstruction and refusal to provide information, in violation of the rights enshrined in the law and in the Constitution by the parliamentary majority, by the Government and the General Deposit Box, which is why a complaint was made to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which we welcome in the figure of Mr President. It was obvious the need to review the law, to effectively guarantee the exercise of these rights and to condemn the new failure invested in any conjuncural majority to capture them. The PSD will proceed with a proposal to amend the law which ensures that the subject matter of the authoritative investigations is not liable for refusal or restrictive assessment by the majority; that it ensures that the appeal to the court of unlawful refusals in the provision of the information due to the offender does not work for the benefit of the offender; that it ensures that the legally required investigations are to be carried out that the applicants are to be determined; and that it ensures that all proceedings are taken by individual votes and not captured by logics of mere party interest. We make these proposals knowing that we shall, without them, be present at the death of the committees of inquiry, and remain the Assembly of the Republic of Amputation of that fundamental instrument in its supervisory powers of the Government and of the Administration. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u134	Mr Miguel Tiago, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and the CDS constituted this Committee of Inquiry, we all remember it, supposedly to access documents to which they had not obtained access in another committee of inquiry, which worked at the same time. These documents disappeared from the scope of the investigation shortly thereafter. Furthermore, the Commission is founded on access to SMS and none of these parties have ever spoken, or if it has done so very rarely, of SMS in the committee of inquiry which came into being. But the intention was to disassemble itself at the first meetings when it was seen that the object of the Commission, which was reflected in the request for its constitution in nothing corresponded to the true object of the PSD and the CDS, which was in fact to continue the campaign of detachment and amalgamation of the parliamentary investigation institute and, at the same time, to fulfil its strategy of destabilization and fragility of the public bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u136	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u137	... attacking and corroding the stability of the public bank, attacking the General Deposit Box and a strategy that could put the General Deposit Box in a direction of stability to fulfill its role as a public bank. The prospect of the privatization of the public bank by the PSD was never hidden and therefore used the parliamentary inquiry as an instrument to attack the Box and, of course, also to attack the political solution we are currently present in Portugal and with which the PSD and CDS have not yet been able to make their adjustment. The stage, therefore, did not work so that the PSD and the CDS could continue this campaign of weakness of the Box, because it was obviously very clear that all the plot that the PSD and the CDS wanted to build and imagine, and even in which they tried to remove the PCP, was a fabrication without any anchor in reality. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to say that during several committees of inquiry, of which BES highlights, for example, documents have been denied to the Assembly of the Republic, many of them requested up to the CFP, and at that time I do not remember any indignation by the PSD and the CDS. [[Protests by CDS-PP Members Cecilia Meireles and João Pinho de Almeida.]] On the contrary, they did everything to ensure that these documents did not arrive when it was the commission of inquiry to BES. For example, the blonde tape at the BES never arrived! And now they've done everything to expose the Box to the firewall and the public exhibition. The Box is a functioning bank and has been exposed to two destabilization campaigns, as there is no memory in any Portuguese bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u138	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u139	In private banks no one could touch while they were working and only after the resolution could there be committees of inquiry and even these did not bring the documents they should to Parliament. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would just like to make two very brief notes: regardless of the fact that it was the flop, because the PSD and CDS had no object — so the CDS is disengaged from voting against the PSD by abstaining from voting on the report — the important issue is political. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] And the political issue is that the CFP has from the outset denounced that this statute of the public manager does not serve the national interest, that this statute of the public manager is not appropriate for supervision of the bodies in this case of the CBox, which are exempted from that statute, as it is not appropriate there is no limit to the maturity of the public manager and it is neither appropriate nor acceptable for the CBox to be required by the European Union for a recapitalisation, and that this is accepted by the current government, as it was by the former, to function as a private bank because it is in competition. It is not acceptable that the State,... [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u140	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u141	... being the only shareholder of the Box, be obliged to accept draconian conditions that lead to the Box for an uncomplicated situation that is extorting customers for profit and that acts as a private bank on the market. That is still necessary to reverse. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u142	Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to make a special compliment to Mr José Pedro Aguiar Branco on how he conducted the work and Mr Luís Testa, rapporteur for this Committee of Inquiry, on how he managed to integrate a number of amendments, including several amendments to the Left Block. This second Committee of Inquiry on the General Deposit Box is the first one, also requested by the PSD and the CDS-PP, with motives and interests that have nothing to do with the General Deposit Box, was effectively an attack on the public bank. They were, in fact, committees of inquiry where these parties participated opportunistically to attack the public bank. however, the Left Block participated in these same fact-finding committees and identified in the findings of this Committee of Inquiry for the present and future a number of procedures which seem to us to be wrong and which must not happen either in the present or in the future. First, a public bank is a public bank and a public manager must be subject to greater scrutiny and supervision. Therefore, whoever is in charge of a public bank cannot in any way attempt to escape control and supervision procedures. António Domingues resigned, and yet, it did not serve the public bank, because he did not want to subject himself to this control and supervision that are required for this function. But the government was also wrong when it did not completely remove the possibility of any exception from these managers. Second, a public bank cannot be equated to a private bank, nor can it function as a private bank. There were several proposals for amendments to the legislation made by Antonio Domingues that the Government agreed to discuss, but it should never have agreed to discuss them - because a public bank has in each citizen one of its shareholders and must aim to pursue the public interest. A public bank cannot function as a private bank and therefore should never have been placed on the table proposals for legislative amendment that equate it with a private bank. Thirdly, this issue has seemed fundamental to us and is based on the conclusions of the report of this Committee of Inquiry: we cannot accept, in a state of democratic law, laws made to measure and there were procedures of laws made to measure. António Domingues hired lawyers who sent the government proposals for legislative amendments, and this cannot happen in a democratic rule of law. We know that, both in the present and in the future, there will be attempts and temptations to privatize Box, to make Box function as a private bank, to return to the procedures of laws made tailored and, therefore, to us, it was essential that all these events and their condemnation should not happen again. The proposals for amendments to the Left Block have therefore been incorporated into the final report and therefore the Left Block has voted in favour of these conclusions and this final report. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u144	Mr João Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet Mr José Pedro Aguiar Branco, who has exercised, and well, the functions of Chairman of this Committee of Inquiry, and Mr Luís Testa, who, as rapporteur, has sought to receive suggestions for amendments made by various benches, including that of the CDS, and this is also worthy of registration. Secondly, I also want to say that the CDS values Parliamentary investigations very much and considers this to be a fundamental instrument for our scrutiny of governments and administrations. We have come from a committee of inquiry, which was probably the worst committee of inquiry ever in this Parliament, in which for the first time a majority have completely prevented the realization of this object, of course from speaking of the first Committee of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box, and that is what determined the existence of this second Committee of Inquiry, was no subversive attempt by the PSD or the CDS. What determined the existence of a second Committee of Inquiry was a boycott promoted by the PS, the PCP and the Left Block to the exercise of parliamentary rights which are enshrined in the law of parliamentary investigations by any political party and by any parliamentary group. We therefore left for this Committee of Inquiry with the responsibility with which we left for anyone: to ascertain facts, to assign responsibilities. This was the work we have done and it was this work that resulted in a set of conclusions that we consider essential and that are not, in any way, removed from the report, which was approved, despite this report, not implementing the version of the CDS, did not deserve our favourable vote. Although John Paul Correia goes, then, to say the opposite and speak of a report that does not exist, but it is his version — the challenge, indeed, all those interested to, after hearing Mr John Paul Correia, who have not yet heard him, will read the report... [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] ...to understand that what he will say has absolutely nothing to do with the report —,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u146	... the report allows us to conclude what the CDS has concluded and which, of course, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has yet to conclude, such as: There was a government commitment to amend laws on request; There was the formation of administration on the basis of that commitment; There was a breach of commitment on the part of the Government to those who took responsibility for administering the General Deposit Box and there was a real breakdown from the point of view of the Government's public word, because, in the first situation and then in any other situation, it was likely to be called into question; There was the hiring of consultants, without ensuring the confidentiality obligations of those who had access to information that could not be accessed by those who did not undertake this confidentiality undertaking; There were public procurement processes that were not transparent and did not follow what the law requires for such contracts; There was access to information from those who used e-mail from a private bank when it was dealing with the life of the public bank; [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u147	There were a number of political irresponsibilities committed by this government ; There was, by the Government and by those who supported it, attempting to clear the situation, to push the General Deposit Box into a situation which was, at all costs, undesirable. This is because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, who is calling into question the General Deposit Box? Is it who requires scrutiny and transparency, whether a public bank or a private bank, or who, being responsible for the shareholder State of the General Deposit Box, commits such recklessness and misdirects the public bank?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u148	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u149	I will finish, Mr. President. Who is paying attention to the General Deposit Box is who governs the public bank badly and this government has been very badly in this process and this government has called into question the General Deposit Box. Anyone who tries to bleach is complicit and thus is also responsible. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member José de Matos Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u150	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to greet Mr Luís Testa, rapporteur of this Committee of Inquiry, for the dialogue and constructive way in which he has guided his work and that he has been receptive to most of the Members of this Commission. PSD and CDS used the parliamentary investigation for their case and home policy and it was well known that these two parties constituted these parliamentary investigations to destroy the process of restructuring and public recapitalisation of the General Deposit Board, but failed. The fact is that António Domingues and the current government have achieved the public recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box without this being considered State aid, an unpublished process at European level. It was therefore a victory for the financial sector and the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a victory for the financial sector because the stabilization of this sector received a decisive contribution with the public recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box, which strengthened confidence in the financial sector and became essential for the success of the shareholder restructuring of the BPI, for the capitalisation of the Millennium, as well as for the sale of the New Bank. But it was also a victory for our economy, because the General Deposit Box remains a 100 % public bank for public policy. However, this was not the PSD strategy. The PSD did not want a public recapitalisation, the PSD did not want a General Deposit Box 100 % public. This Commission of Inquiry, like the previous one, was used to prove that the 2012 capitalisation was made by the regulatory minimums and without precaution of the country's prolonged economic recession between 2011 and 2015, as well as to prove that the previous Government knew the worrying level of impartiality of the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, as proved by the statements by Pedro Passos Coelho, in July 2015, on the inability of the Box to pay to the State itself convertible obligations into actions. This confession of inability and high level of impartiality of the General Deposit Box was well demonstrated in these statements by the former Prime Minister in July 2015. Above all, the intention of the previous government was to open the door of the General Deposit Box to privates, since it always refused to fight for the public recapitalization of the General Deposit Box. At no time in this Committee of Inquiry, by the documentation made available and known, there is any proof that there has been an agreement for the release of the statement of heritage by the administrators of the General Deposit Box to the Constitutional Court. PSD proposed this Committee of Inquiry together with the CDS, but the PSD ends up voting alone against the report and its conclusions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The mountain bet a mouse! PSD is the great loser of this Commission of Inquiry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u152	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this agenda item. in point six, we have draft law no. 685 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Establishs the independent technical committee for the analysis of fires that occurred between 14 and 16 October 2017 in continental Portugal ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ), which does not have time allocated. in item 7 of the agenda, we have the motions for resolutions Nos 56 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves for accession the Second Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Case of Armed Conflict adopted in The Hague on 26 March 1999 and 57 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on an Integrated Approach to Security, Protection and Services by Occasion of the Football Games and Other Sports Events, opened for signature in Saint-Denis, on 3 July 2016, equally without any time allocated. We can therefore move on to the voting period, for which we are going to check the quorum, using the electronic system to that end. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 203 presences, to which Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP is added, thus making a total of 204 presences, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with vote No 445 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Zé Pedro, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PAN, and CDS-PP. Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Serrão, will do the favor of reading the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of José Pedro Amaro dos Santos Reis. Zé Pedro was born in Lisbon on September 14, 1956. In 1979 he was at the foundation of the Xutos & Pontapés, one of the bands of greatest recognition and longevity of Portuguese rock. It will not be exaggerated to consider it one of the icons of contemporary popular culture. in the public newspaper, Mário Lopes describes it as « our eternal rider of rock ’ n’ roll». They are from the authorship of Zé Pedro themes such as Submition, N’ América or I am not the only one, the last two of the album Circo de Faras, which, in 1987, finally catapulted the band to the front line of the Portuguese musical scene. In 2004 the Jutos & Pontapés were decorated by President Jorge Sampaio with the Order of Merit. Zé Pedro was a musician, a teller of music and musicians, passionate about life and with unsatisfied curiosity about the world's movements and new pop and rock trends. He went to the concerts of others; Zé Peter, above all, heard the others. And smile. He was a man of unusual qualities, with contagious generosity. A symbol of a generation that has become a reference of all generations. ‘ Forever. ’ Meeting in plenary session, members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest regret at the disappearance of Zé Pedro to the family, friends and the Jutos & Pontapés ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u154	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, please inform the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are in the gallery the companion, Cristina Avides Moreira, and four brothers of Zé Pedro, in representation of the family, as well as elements of Xutos & Pontapés. Let us vote vote No 445/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Zé Pedro ( President of the HR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PAN and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 446/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Queen Acuce, presented by the PSD and PS. I would ask Mrs Sandra Pontedeira to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « She died last December 1 in Pau, Professor Reine Acoce. Born on September 8, 1929, since very early it has been declared a great defender of the Lusophonia, contributing to closer relations between France, Portugal and African territories such as Guinea-Bissau. His relationship with Amílcar Cabral was crucial to deepen his true passion for the values of the Lusophony. As a major activist, he founded two associations aimed at supporting our community in the Pyrenees region and at disseminating Portuguese culture: the Association France-Portugal and the Association Lusophonie de Pau. in the context of this action, Reine Acoce recorded and disclosed numerous aspects of community life and Portuguese culture in the region where she lived, simultaneously supporting hundreds of Portuguese people who sought to solve the inevitable problems resulting from an extremely painful migration process, especially from the 1960s. Its role was still decisive for the realization of the twinning between Paul and Setúbal. With its disappearance, our community in France loses a great friend and one of the great stairwells of defending the Lusophony in this country. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the disappearance of the pedagogue and social activist Reine Accoce and presents her condolences to her family."
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u156	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 448/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Manuel Marín González, presented by the PSD and subscribed by the PS. I am glad to say that since yesterday, I have taken the liberty of sending a message of condolences to the President of the Spanish Courts on my behalf, since he was a very close friend of Portugal and a great Europeanist. I would ask Mr Pedro Alves to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The former Member and former European Commissioner Manuel Marín died last December 4 in Madrid. Born on 21 October 1949, Manuel Marín studied Law in Madrid, Community Law in Nancy and European Studies in the College of Europe, in Bruges. Manuel Marín was responsible for negotiating Spain's entry into the then European Economic Community and was the first European Commissioner appointed by Spain, responsible for social affairs, education and employment, in the college chaired by Jacques Delors. It was under the care of Manuel Marín that the Erasmus programme was launched, giving tens of millions of young people the opportunity to spend a period of their studies in a country other than theirs. The Erasmus programme is one of the most visible aspects of the development of a true European culture and identity. Between 2014 and 2020 four million young people are mobilized, including two million in higher education. In 2015, on the basis of the latest available data, Portugal was among the 10 countries that most higher education students sent to study in another Member State and among the 10 countries that most foreign students received. Manuel Marín was also a Commissioner at the Jacques Santer College and a Member and President of the Congress of Deputies. The Assembly of the Republic therefore expresses its regret at the disappearance of Manuel Marín and presents its condolences to its relatives."
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute's silence on all these votes. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, continuing to vote, we turn to vote No 447 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings to the Fragous Antonio Association ( PS, PSD, The Greens and CDS-PP ). I ask the Secretary-General Idália Salvador Serrão to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « in 2018 the centenary of the death of António Fragoso, an admirable case of rare musical talent and early maturity, scissorsed in the flower of youth by the wave of pneumonia which a century ago decimated the populations of Europe. In October 1918, Antonio Fragoso was working his last work, a sonata for violin and piano. Shortly before, on July 3, he had completed the piano course at the National Conservatory with 20 values. By then he was a pianist and composer considered, especially by his colleagues, despite being only 21 years old and being inserted into a modest environment. The concerts he had given in those last two years, 1917 and 1918 had allowed him to play many of his works publicly. His great aspiration, at that time, was to go to Paris, to study composition with the great masters. His premature death led to a journey that, at the time, was an impressive one. António Lima Fragoso was born in 1897 in the village of Pocariça, Cantanhede municipality, Coimbra district, and there lived his early years. His family, recognizedly worshipped — the only book about Pocariça was written and edited by his father — allowed him to learn early the first lyrics and musical notes. His uncle, Antonio Santos Tovim, a doctor in Cantanhede, taught him to read the musical patterns and play piano. Later, in 1907, he went to the Port, to attend the General Course of the Highs. She stayed at the home of an uncle and a godfather, Professor José d’ Oliveira Lima. It is in the port that attends the Conservatory and continues to study piano, with Ernesto Maia. Since 2009 the study, review, editing and dissemination of musical works left by António Fragoso are driven by the Association António Fragoso, which, under the chairmanship of Eduardo Fragoso Martins Soares, has developed a remarkable work for the knowledge of Fragoso and his work, contributing, in addition, to the perspective of the relevance of this work in its time. in this context, the Assembly of the Republic makes a greeting vote to the Association António Fragoso at the time when it marks the centenary of the death of the composer, through more than one hundred cultural initiatives to be carried out in about forty localities of the national territory and fourteen concerts abroad, spreading, wide and dignified, the musical and literary legacy of António Fragoso".
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u160	We shall vote for this vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to vote No 449/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning the aggression against Libya, trafficking in human beings and slavery presented by the CFP. I ask the Secretary-General Idália Salvador Serrão to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The military aggression against Libya, led by NATO and supported by the European Union, has led to the destruction of the state, its governing bodies and material infrastructure, leading the country to a disintegration situation, leading to the general degradation of living conditions and exposing the population to a war of aggression that still produces devastating effects today. Powered and financed from third countries, with the intervention of the United States of America and its allies in support of terrorist military groups, the war launched Libya in a situation of eliminating the most basic freedoms and rights, of poverty and material deficiency, of growing humanitarian crisis, with the existence of migratory flows of millions of men, women and children. The situation, recognized by the UN, in which thousands of migrants are subject to the exploitation and trafficking of human beings and the recent news about the situation of refugees who, fleeing war and destruction, fall into the meshes of slavery and trafficking, demonstrate the direct result of the aggression against Libya promoted by NATO and the European Union. Considering the serious crisis in Libya and the increase in crimes of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in migrants; Whereas it is necessary to ensure the protection of the rights of refugees and to safeguard their lives; Considering the responsibilities of the European Union in the crisis and rejecting the policy of preventing the arrival of migrants and refugees in the European Union, condemning the death, trafficking and slavery of thousands of men, women and children; The Assembly of the Republic condemns trafficking in human beings, trafficking in migrants and slavery, the consequences of military aggression against Libya, commits itself to combating organised crime in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No 2380 and calls on the European Union to respect the rights of refugees, calling for the fulfilment of the obligations of the Member States in the context of the reception of refugees".
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, The Greens and the PAN, and abstentions by PS Deputies Rosa Maria Albernaz and Santinho Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u163	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u164	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u165	Mr President, it is only to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u166	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u167	Mr President, I would also like to inform you that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u168	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, the following are votes Nos 450 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel by the President of the United States of America, Donald Trump ( presented by PS, BE and PAN and subscribed by PSD deputies ), 451 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning the recognition by the US of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel ( PCP ) and 454 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerned at the decision of the United States to transfer its embassy to Jerusalem in Israel ( submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP and subscribed by PS Members ), for which it was established that they would be the subject of joint debate and a period of 2 minutes was set for each parliamentary group. You have the floor, first of all, for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Jerusalem is probably one of the places in the world with a more fragile balance and is therefore also one of the places in the world where this balance should be more respected, which did not happen with the decision of the President of the United States of America, to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and to transfer from Telavive to Jerusalem to the Embassy of the United States of America in Israel. This balance must be respected, because Jerusalem is considered sacred by three religions and therefore necessarily a multireligious capital. But this balance must also be respected, because Jerusalem is at the heart of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the two States claim parts of Jerusalem as their capital. Therefore, Jerusalem will always have to be part of a peace negotiation process, as it has been recognised, and so has it been in the Oslo Agreements of the 1990s. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can have different views on how this peace is built. For the Left Block, it cannot be possible until the recognition of a Palestinian State exists and until there is an end to silent complacency with Israeli illegal aggressions and occupations over the Palestinian territory. We can disagree about the conditions of peace, but there is one thing in which it is not possible to disagree: these conditions are called into question, as was said by Antonio Guterres, when a unilateral measure aims to « set the whole region on fire. In all resolutions, in all agreements, in all U.S. administrations this red line had never been exceeded and that is why this decision of the U.S. Administration has already been considered an act of international vandalism. in fact, there are not many names to describe that, by a mere act of internal campaign, the President of the United States of America is risking to question...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u170	It has already exceeded the time you had, Mrs Deputies, so I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u171	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, there are not many names to describe that, by a mere act of internal campaign, the President of the United States is risking to question the most precious good in the Middle East, which is now peace. And it is on behalf of peace that this House must condemn this decision of the U.S. Administration. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u172	Mr. José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The world was surprised yesterday by the decision of the US President to carry out the transfer of the US embassy to Israel from Telavive to Jerusalem. We understand that this is a serious and very worrying decision. Actually, it's not new. We must remember that it was in 1995 that the U.S. Congress took this decision, but there was common sense by several U.S. presidents — President Clinton, President George W. Bush and President Obama — to go forward successively with the implementation of this measure, which is now being applied. We understand that this is a step that comes against all the recommendations of the international community and particularly against the decisions of the United Nations. It is a measure that can contribute to the escalation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in an area, in fact, already strongly conditioned by the conflicts of Syria and Yemen. We therefore believe that it is very important for diplomacy to occupy the place it has to occupy right now. This is not a time for radical positions, this is a time for people to approach and a strong intervention by the international community in the mediation of this conflict. so that we strongly appeal to this moderation, to this diplomatic and democratic dialogue, so that we can all contribute to the restoration of peace in the Middle East. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u174	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On these votes, I want to leave some previous notes and draw some conclusions. The United States of America is a friendly country of Portugal, with whom we have historical relations of friendship, and even debt, so they have done for peace in Europe, against dictatorships such as Nazism and Stalinism, and gratitude, as many Portuguese have received. We therefore have a relationship which, bilaterally and multilaterally, can and should be deepened. On the other hand, the CDS respects the internal policy of the United States and the principle of non-interference, especially as it relates to the decision of a Congress, a democratic body, dated 1995. Finally, for the CDS, and for a long time we have said this, the Israeli-Palestinian issue can only be resolved in respect of the agreements concluded, the United Nations resolutions and diplomacy and as long as it passes through two sovereign states respecting itself, recognizing itself and living in peace. Having said that, Mr President, this is a sovereign decision of a friendly country, we cannot ignore that it has an effect, not only on the region but also on a global level, which deserves our greatest concern. We must not forget that this decision against United Nations resolutions, signed by Portugal and the United States of America, gives a wrong signal, gives an opposite signal, does not help peace and promotes and feeds extremism. That is why we cannot but show our concern, as we have done. As for the other votes, particularly those of the CFP, by their language, it also clearly opposed the interests of peace, in the sense that it promotes and takes part in one of the parties, which can never be the foundation of peace, the CDS will vote against. With regard to the vote presented by the Left Block, the Socialist Party and the PAN, having a truly balanced language and, more than that, even factually, the CDS will vote in favour, with freedom of vote for its Members. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u176	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens begin this speech by expressing their firm condemnation of the intention of the U.S. Administration to transfer their embassy from Telavive to Jerusalem. In fact, with this decision, the United States is not just transferring its embassy, they are also making a decision with serious implications for the status of Jerusalem itself. With this decision, the United States of America is disrespecting the Palestinian people, working with Zionist policy of illegal occupation of the Palestinian territories, of course, the total occupation of Jerusalem, by Israel.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u179	But it is also a decision that carries a real danger to peace in the region and in the world. A decision that diverts any peace solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and will exacerbate the conflict, compromising the desirable revival of the peace process. In view of this attitude, I would say, at the very least, irresponsible, by the US Administration, that the Greens believe that this House must condemn this decision firmly, but they also believe that the Portuguese Government must urgently proceed to the formal recognition of the State of Palestine, either in conjunction with the European Union, or without any articulation. I recall that this House has already adopted for more than two years a resolution which aims exactly to recommend to the Government that, in conjunction with the European Union, recognize the State of Palestine. from The Greens we will continue to demand the creation of an independent State of Palestine, with the borders prior to June 1967, with the capital in East Jerusalem, in respect of the right of return of Palestinian refugees, in line with various United Nations resolutions, and in compliance with the basic rules of international law. The Greens finally consider that the United Nations resolutions are to be fulfilled by all, whether or not friends. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u180	Mr Bruno Dias also has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in Palestine there is no conflict, there is an occupation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u182	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u183	... there is a constant and systematic policy of aggression, expansionism and colonization, violation of human rights and international law by the State of Israel. in Palestine there are political prisoners, there is a wall of apartheid, there are colonies that do not stop increasing, there are millions of Palestinians who have been expelled from their lands, the largest refugee community in the world. The city of Jerusalem is an occupied city. In 2015, the official delegation of the Assembly of the Republic — and are here Mr. Members who were present—were prevented from freely circulating in East Jerusalem by Israeli soldiers. Jerusalem is now pointed out by the United States of America as the capital of Israel. in this particular context, the decision announced by Donald Trump is a direct violation of international law, of several United Nations resolutions on the status of Jerusalem, and is an unacceptable provocation and a grave step in the escalation of tension and conflict in the Middle East. The Portuguese State cannot witness this situation passively and, in accordance with the resolution adopted by this Assembly, for more than two years, the Portuguese State and the Portuguese Government are indebted to the recognition by Portugal of the State of Palestine. That decision should have already been taken and it is too late to be taken. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u184	Mrs. Members, between a busy people and the occupying power, among those who suffer and those who violate international law, we have no doubt or are equidistant, we are solidarity with those who fight for their independence, for their dignity and for their future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u186	What we propose to the Assembly of the Republic is that it take a very clear position of condemnation for this decision taken by the US Administration, expressing solidarity with the Palestinian people and affirming its right to recognition of its own State, with the borders defined by the United Nations, prior to 1967, and with capital in East Jerusalem, and calling on the Portuguese Government to, in respect for the Constitution of the Republic, unequivocally condemn the decision now taken by the US Administration. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u187	You have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conflict we are alluding to is certainly the most complex and difficult-to-resolve conflict in the context of current international relations, and having a manician approach to it is to desecrate and abandon the complexity underlying the need to understand the problem. But today, fortunately, we are faced with a situation in which we can all meet around a joint position which, I think, this House may adopt. This is because, if it is true that the conflict is complex, the fact is that difficult balances and difficult paths to build peace can objectively be harmed by unilateral actions, as is the case. This is what should be emphasized here today, not forgetting that there is a historic course of attempt to build peace through the Oslo Agreements, which, among many things, have tried to launch a path to establish borders, to create a Palestinian State next to the Jewish State, to create security for both States, to guarantee conditions of peace, prosperity and democratic law for both, leaving precisely the resolution of the issues that have not been resolved so far and which pass through the status of refugees, the borders and the status of the city of Jerusalem. To look at the problem without realizing the history that is underlying the stones that run down on the streets of Jerusalem is to avoid to understand the problem. As the first Prime Minister of the State of Israel said, David Ben-Gurion, the main problem, not the only one, is that there is more history for geography than one. And the difficulty... The difficulty in building two States that coexist is precisely the difficulty many have in understanding history and in understanding each other. Since the year 70 C.E., the Jews say "to the year in Jerusalem", recognizing the loss that Jerusalem represented when it was occupied by the Romans; but also in the words of a great Palestinian poet, Mahmoud Darwish, Jerusalem is today a loss for the Palestinians, who lost it and, therefore, they see themselves there in the same Babylonian captivity as the Jews suffered. These paths are taken together by innocent people, who do not blame the bad or good leaders they have, who do not blame those who make decisions that affect them daily and who make them lose their lives. These people must be at the top of all political decision makers and all those who view international decisions as relevant. So today, as a friendly country of the United States, we must not inhibit...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u189	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u190	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, we should not be inhibited from condemning and saying very clearly that this decision comes to the fore of all good practices of international law. It is no wonder that the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Pope Francis, the allies of the United States of America condemned this option...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u191	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u192	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, it is no wonder that they have condemned this option, because it effectively does nothing positive for peace, nothing positive for the region, nothing positive for the world and we must face this condemnation together and unanimously, because it does not condemn either of the two States, it does not condemn any of the citizens, it condemns only one unilateral act that imbalances and harms the lives of all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u193	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore in a position to proceed to the vote. We shall vote on vote No 450 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel by the President of the United States of America, Donald Trump, presented by BE, PS and PAN and signed by PSD Members. [[The vote was put to the vote by the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against 2 Members of the CDS-PP (João Rebelo and Teresa Caeiro) and abstentions by 1 Member of the PS (João Soares) and 6 Members of the CDS-PP (António Carlos Monteiro, Cecília Meireles, Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, Hélder Amaral, Pedro Mota Soares and Telmo Correia).]] We turn to the vote on vote No 451 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning the recognition by the United States of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel submitted by the CFP. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and 4 PS (Fernando Rocha Andrade, João Soares, Miranda Calha and Rosa Maria Albernaz), votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the Os Verdes and 6 PS (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Isabel Alves Moreira, Ivan Gonçalves and Marisabel Moutela) and abstentions from PS and PAN.]] We now vote on vote No 454 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerned at the decision by the United States to transfer its embassy to Jerusalem in Israel, submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP and subscribed by PS Deputies. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from the CFP, The Greens and 1 PS Member (João Soares).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u194	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u195	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u196	Mr President, to announce with regard to votes Nos 450, 451 and 454 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), the presentation of a declaration of vote on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Gabriela Canavilhas, Ricardo Bexiga, Isabel Alves Moreira, Elza Pais, Carla Sousa, Ivan Gonçalves, Catarina Marcelino and André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u197	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Rebelo, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u198	Mr President, for the same purpose, to announce that I will present a statement of vote on these three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u199	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 452 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Greetings by 10. the anniversary of the EU-Cabo Verde strategic partnership, presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PSD Members, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u200	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Cape Verde is a country with which Portugal has odd affinities. The relationship between them lies, firstly, in the affective ties shared between their peoples, whether socially or culturally or economically. In addition, over time and since independence, Cape Verde has often shared with Portugal also strategic vision and positioning in external relations, both in the statement of CPLP and on various international and diplomatic issues. in this context, it is also, and in particular, its position in front of the European area in which Portugal is integrated. With the creation of the euro, Cape Verde has celebrated with Portugal the Cambial Cooperation Agreement, which has ensured, since the existence of the single currency, the exchange rate between the Cape Verde and the euro. next year, 20 years will already come into force of this agreement. In addition, Cape Verde called on the EU to establish a special partnership beyond the classic Cotonou framework, which is the agreement between the EU and the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries. They come up with reasons justifying this specificity of relationship, which was approved by the European bodies in November 2007, at the time of the Portuguese Presidency of the EU. The Special Partnership is founded on solidarity, on the protection of the principles of democracy and the rule of law and on the promotion of the development of social justice and human rights. At this light and a decade later, it is important to highlight the positive evolution of the path. Above all, it is essential to renew the European political commitment and recognize the specificities of its relations with Cape Verde in order to raise the Partnership to a new level of cooperation, exploring the potential in the areas of maritime security, energy, innovation and education, tourism or trade. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, signs the 10 years of the strategy partnership between the EU and Cape Verde and renews its continuing commitment to confer a greater political impetus to this Special Partnership, within its competences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u201	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] The following is vote No 453 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the inclusion of the Production of Figured in Barro de Estremoz, known as « Dolls of Extremes », in the Representative List of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of UNESCO, presented by PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, Os Verdes, PCP and PAN, which will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u202	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the decision to recognize the Production of Figured in Barro de Estremoz, known as ‘Dolls of Extreme’, as an Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity, during 12. the Meeting of the UNESCO Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Imaterial Cultural Heritage. The Dolls of Estremoz date back to the seventeenth century and were initially manufactured only by women. They represent offices and traditions of the Alentejo, religious figures, urban and rural themes and its very characteristic aesthetic makes the Dolls immediately identifiable. According to researcher Hernâni Matos: ‘ This is a sui generis manufacturing, distinct from the whole Portuguese figure. in it, the whole is created from the parts, resorting to three distinct geometry: the ball, the roll and the plate. These are the ones that, with variable sizes, are used in the pregnancy of each Bone. For this they are glued to each other, using barbutin, and cherished by the magical hands of the artisans, who transmit life and meaning to them. The Dolls are born naked and will then be dressed and dressed, which the Dolls are also vain. Only the face is made of suitable moulds. The ancestral technique of production of Dolls of Estremoz has been transmitted over the centuries and has reached us. After its manufacture, the Dolls are put to dry, then cooked in the oven and are painted with mineral colors already used by the rock artists of Lascaux and Altamira in the Paleolithic, but here screamed and cheerful, as is the stamp of the southern clarity. Finally, they are protected with varnish. Still, according to that researcher, it is ‘ Dolls that doubly have to do with our identity as estremocenes and alentejans, Dolls who, first of all, are popular art, in what is most noble, deep and ancestral, encloses this demanding aesthetic-ethnic concept. ’ Currently, they model Dolls the Sisters Flowers, Fatima Estroia, Afonso e Matilde Ginja, Duarte Catela and Ricardo Fonseca. Using traditional techniques, but modeling with contemporary and local forms, we have Isabel Pires, Jorge da Conceição and Célia Freitas / Miguel Gomes. The consecration of the Production of Figured in Barro de Estremoz as Immaterial Heritage of Humanity is an important element of valuing this expression of popular culture and contributing decisively to its preservation and preservation. Through this vote, the Assembly of the Republic congratulates the entities that have integrated the executive commission of the candidacy for the work that have persistently developed, as well as all the entities and individuals who have engaged in and engaged in this process and all the extremities. The Assembly of the Republic especially congratulates all artisans and artisans for their irreplaceable role in preserving and disseminating this heritage, whose recognition by UNESCO enhances popular culture and the country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u203	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1119 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the European Union, integrate permanent structured cooperation in the field of security and defence ( PS ) ( initial text replaced by the author ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 1121/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Permanent Structured Cooperation in Security and Defence ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u204	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u205	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u206	Mr President, just to say very quickly that what we are going to vote is not a vote, but a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u207	Exactly, Mr. Deputies, you are absolutely right. This is draft resolution No 1121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Permanent Structured Cooperation in Security and Defence ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1125/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by rejection of Portugal's entry into Permanent Structured Cooperation ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1130 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Rejects Portugal's association with the European Permanent Structured Cooperation Mechanism ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1133 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend national interest within the framework of the participation of the Portuguese State in Permanent Structured Cooperation ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1163 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by Portugal's non-accession to Permanent Structured Cooperation ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u208	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u209	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u210	Mr President, to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on the last five draft resolutions which have been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u211	Be registered. Has Mrs Rubina Berardo also asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u212	Yes, Mr President, to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last six draft resolutions voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u213	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 658/ XIII ( 3 ). a ) — establishes the obligation of audits to systems with possible impacts on outdoor air quality, in particular the research of legionellasp colonies. ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 102 / 2010 of 23 September) ( BE). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 659 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Re-establishs the mandatory audits of indoor air quality and research of legionellasp colonies. ( Fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August) ( BE). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This initiative is down to 11. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No. 676 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the re-introduction of the requirement to regularly monitor the quality of indoor and outdoor air in service buildings with air conditioning systems ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] This bill also drops to 11. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 680 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets out the conditions for the establishment of the primary prevention and control programme for legionella ( PCP ) bacteria. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No. 681/ XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — establishes the obligation to submit an annual action plan to monitor and monitor indoor air quality ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We shall now vote, in general, on Bill No 682 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August with a view to ensuring the regular verification of air quality of buildings with air conditioning system, including verification of the existence of legionella colonies ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill also falls to 11. the Commission. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 962 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exemption from moderate rate payment in cases of legionella outbreak ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1160 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a study to assess the need for implementation of a national health programme on primary prevention of legionaires'disease, which promotes an information campaign to disseminate the means of primary prevention of legionaires'disease and to strengthen human and material resources in the field of public health for the conduct of assessments, audits and inspections of indoor air quality of public and private services buildings with air conditioning systems, as well as the quality of outdoor air in the perimeters of such buildings ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1117 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government introduce in public procurement mechanisms to ensure greater quality in school meals ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1155 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government respect the autonomy of schools, enabling the public management of school meals ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1156 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop binding guidelines on the organisation and operation of school offices, ensuring greater quality in meals provided ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1157 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen nutritionists for public school in order to allow effective monitoring of the ingredients, ensuring greater quality in school meals ( NAP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1158 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government determine the non-distribution of milk to pre-school and 1-school children. the basic education cycle, ensuring greater quality in school meals (NAP). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u214	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u215	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u216	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver today a statement of vote on the draft resolution we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u217	Be registered. We moved on to draft resolution No 1162 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — by the public management of school canteens ( CFP ). As requested, we shall vote on this draft resolution by points. Let us therefore vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] The vote on point 3 shall follow. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] Finally, we voted on point 4 of the draft resolution. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u218	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u219	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u220	Mr President, to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this block of initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u221	Be registered. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 343 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 233 / 2008 of 2 December regulating the exercise of the right of association by the professionals of the Republican National Guard ( GNR ) ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will now vote in general on Bill No. 547 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the GNR for the weekly reference time ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 30 / 2017 of 22 March) ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 549 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — The Statute of the GNR rests justice on the right to a holiday ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 30 / 2017 of 22 March) ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 677 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Military of the Republican National Guard, as regards working time ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote of requests submitted by the Greens, the BE, the CFP and the NAP respectively, requesting the discharge of draft resolutions Nos 909/ XIII ( 2 ) to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting for a period of 45 days. ( a ) — Review of the Convention of Albufeira ( The Greens ), 1154 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the urgent revision of the Albufeira Convention ( BE ), 1161 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the review of the Albufeira Convention ( PCP ) and 1165 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the proceedings of the Albufeira Convention ( PAN ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1112 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government determine the immediate reduction in the production of Celtejo ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u222	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u223	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u224	To announce that I myself, Mr António Gameiro, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão and Mr Luís Moreira Testa will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u225	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the general vote on Bill No 685 / XIII ( 3 ) in the overall speciality and finality. ( a ) — Creates the Independent Technical Commission for the Analysis of Fires that took place between 14 and 16 October 2017 in mainland Portugal ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote on the request by the PSD, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, requesting the final drafting waiver as well as the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of draft law No 685 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a) we have just voted. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 56 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves for accession the Second Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Cultural Property in the Case of Armed Conflict adopted in The Hague on 26 March 1999. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote, in the overall final vote, on motion for a resolution No 57 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on an Integrated Approach to Security, Protection and Services by Occasion of the Football Games and Other Sports Events, opened for signature in Saint-Denis, on 3 July 2016. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We are now voting on a request by the PS Parliamentary Group for a one-day reduction in the time limit for the submission of claims against inaccuracies of the final drafting texts relating to the proposals of lein. 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018, adopted in the overall final vote at the plenary session on 27 November. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves will report on two opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u226	Mr President, the request by the Central Criminal Court of Lisbon, the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Case No 3902 / 13.0JFLSB, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings under the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u227	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the second opinion and ask Secretary Pedro Alves to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u228	Mr President, the request of the Central Criminal Court of Santarém, Court of Justice of the Comarca de Santarém, Case No 58 / 10.4TAFZZ, the Subcommittee on Ethics of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Filipe Lobo d'Ávila ( CDS-PP ) to intervene in the proceedings under the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-07.u229	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. I recall that the next plenary meeting will take place on 13 December, Wednesday, at 3 p.m. of the first item on the agenda are political statements. The second point follows the joint assessment of petitions Nos 214/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They call for the defrosting of the progression in teacher careers and the remuneration positions of non-teaching staff ( FNE — National Federation of Education ) and 272 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the restoration of non-teachers'careers ( FNE — National Federation of Education ). Finally, at the third point, petition No 256 / XIII ( 2 ) will be assessed. ( a ) — They call for measures to be taken to resolve the precarious contractual situation of specialists in schools ( Ana Margarida Carvalho Maia and others). I wish all the Members and all the Members a good weekend. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 38 minutes.]]
