ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the first item on today's agenda are the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 305 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the continental territory ( PSD ), 373 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alterly Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June ( Defines the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland ), creating rules on the dispensation of firefighters who perform functions in the Public Administration ( CDS-PP ), 376 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, regulated by Decree-Law No 73 / 2013 of 31 May ( PAN ), 377 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland, approved by Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June ( PAN ), and 379 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the continental territory ( BE ). To initiate the debate, Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We speak today of what should always be the principle of what motivates political action, people in particular people who are most available to serve their communities, as is the case with volunteer firefighters and their corporations. Not on purpose, I had the honour and privilege to witness, last weekend, on the land I was born, Santo Tirso, a just and sincere tribute to two firemen with special responsibilities, with the allocation of one of the highest decorations, by commitment and support to the humanitarian cause and firemen, by the institutions that protect them. This tribute, in times when gratitude is so rare, acquires special relief and is precisely by the volunteer firefighters and by the justice that it is due to them that the PSD Parliamentary Group presents this diploma. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : According to the knowledge of everyone, particularly during the Charlie phase, critical period determined in the context of the Forest Defense System Against Fires, for more than a decade has been approved, by resolution of the Council of Ministers, an exceptional scheme of public service dispensation of workers from the direct and indirect administration of the State who, cumulatively, hold the status of volunteer firefighter when they are called to combat a forest fire. This dispensation of public functions has always been considered exceptional and dependent, on a case-by-case basis, year by year, on an express resolution of the Council of Ministers. For the PSD, however, the circumstances determining this exemption should not be dependent on circumstances assessments or political decisions, irrespective of their nature or origin. The recognition of this facilitating mechanism has been unanimous by all governments. this year, despite the violent wave of fires that devastated our country, demanding the maximum effort of all volunteer firefighters, the government did not consider it necessary to approve this exceptional regime. The PSD does not understand the government's attitude towards this issue, nor can it accept the reasons put forward, on the contrary, it believes that this attitude does not recognize the merit of the volunteer firefighter's role. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The determination of the Charlie phase as the most critical time to combat forest fires should operate automatically, and under the law itself, the entry into force of this exceptional regime. As evidence that, as far as it is concerned, there can be consensus on the case of the other parliamentary groups that we wanted to join in this initiative. for the mission that firefighters develop, it is fair to acknowledge all of us to these men and women who, daily on the ground, watch for the well-being of the populations, who serve with dedication, with commitment and with personal sacrifice and who, also in this way, the PSD wanted to honor, making a fair recognition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u3	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, more than the procedural question that motivated the multiplicity of projects we are discussing in this Chamber, I would like to start by telling you three things: of courage, of self-sufficientness and of delivery, of giving everything without any in return,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u6	... leaving behind family, friends, work at the simple sound of a siren. So first of all, I would like to leave here a just, feeling and grateful homage to the thousands of Portuguese volunteer firemen, who, whenever they are called, give life for life.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u8	That said, I would like to explain the motivation and construction of our diploma. It is public that last year — during the year 2016, therefore, contrary to what has already happened 10 years ago to this party, the Government has decided not to decree the exceptional scheme of dispensation of public service of public officials who are simultaneously volunteer firefighters. Mal! in our view, it is very bad because, on the one hand, the rule regime enshrined in the Decree-Law which we want to see altered is insufficient and it is not redundant, contrary to what the Government has said. The rule of law is clearly excused, not only because the emergency does not have days counted, nor is it predictable, but also because the formation of firemen is essential and is, moreover, indispensable, either to carry out the mission entrusted to them, either for their own protection, which should never be disregarded. On the other hand, it misunderstood because, contrary to what the government has intended to justify, the methodology is not suspicious or even confusing. These are, on the one hand, hierarchical relationships which, therefore, must be subject to clear and transparent rules that minimize misunderstandings that the lack of rules so often generates. from then on, explaining now the amendments we want to introduce, we propose two new articles in the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in mainland territory. We commend, in one of the articles, that the exceptional public service dispensation regime applies not only during the critical period determined under the Forest Defense System Against Fires (SDFCI ) but also in three other cases: first, by special alert declaration, of red level, and only of red level, by the National Civil Protection Authority ( ANPC ) ; second, by participation in a special device constituted under the Integrated System of Protection and Relief Operations ( SIOPS ) ; third and last, by activation of the municipal or district civil protection emergency plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u10	in these four cases, therefore, we understand that there should be an exceptional dispensation of service. in the other article we introduced, we laid down the rules to be applied, and we established them with simple steps, simple oral communications confirmed in writing as soon as possible, because thus they leave no margin for any doubts. More important than that...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u11	It has already exceeded your time, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u12	It didn't go too far, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u13	I did not go beyond it, Mr President. There is a misunderstanding in the time of the electronic picture, because I have four minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u14	So I ask you to assign another one minute to the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u15	Now I have 30 more seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u16	No, now you've got 60 seconds. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u17	I said, more important than this, that all is to mold and meet the needs of a number of days that are not rigid and that is not fixed, such as in the law in force, because unfortunately the emergency does not sympathize with rigidity and predictability which strangely this government has thought is possible. Finally, in order to finish — and I will end in time, Mr President — I would like to say that, in his overwhelming majority, voluntary firefighters are not civil servants, so I leave an appeal to employers to adopt internal, clear and dispatch mechanisms that facilitate emergency operation by all of us and by the Portuguese firefighters. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u18	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva was right. I apologize and thank you very much for your understanding. Mr André Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are currently around 30 000 firefighters in Portugal on the asset, more than 90 % of whom are volunteers. Firefighters are the main agent of the National Civil Protection Authority and their presence in all operations theatres runs in the order of 97 %. Although they have gained more prominence in the summer months, only 7% of their activity is related to the fight against forest fires, one of the biggest environmental and social disasters we have been facing in recent times. One of the two initiatives we bring today the debate intends to establish a public service dispensation scheme for workers of direct and indirect state administration, including the autonomous administration, in the following cases: during the critical period of forest fires, where there is a special warning declaration, of orange or red level, or whenever a municipal or district civil protection emergency plan is activated. This dispensation covers citizens who, cumulatively, hold the quality of a volunteer fireman and are called by their fireman body. in the background, the NAP considers that this extraordinary dispensation should not only be carried out in case of fire fighting, but also in response to other disasters that, throughout the year, affect all municipalities in our country, such as full episodes, floods, snows or even a seismic event or tsunami. On the other hand, we also present an initiative that allows the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters to be included in the composition of the National Firefighters Council, since because of its importance and scope of its work, it can certainly contribute to a better continuation of the tasks of this Council. Being the National Council of Firefighters composed of 10 entities, including the Portuguese Firefighters League and the National Association of Professional Firefighters, we consider that excluding the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters is at least incoherent. The Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters has an assiduous and decisive activity in promoting the dignity and identity of the Portuguese volunteer firefighters, who, we remember, represent more than 90 % of the firefighters in our country, so it makes no sense to continue leaving this entity out. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u20	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects we are discussing today aim, above all, to recognize the dedication given to the public cause, with the sacrifice of lives and the sacrifice of personal and professional availability by many of our fellow citizens. in fact, there is, in this regard, a habit that has settled down and that, we believe, is the time to change. And this habit is that of year by year and in a case-by-year manner, if an exceptional regime of public service dispensation of public officials who, cumulatively, are firefighters, when they are called to serve in the most acute phase of the firefighting. Well, in view of this reality, which we have today, the Left Block makes a proposal that goes in two directions. First, it is intended to extend the public service dispensation scheme in three fundamental phases: first, when there is the declaration of special red alert by the National Civil Protection Authority; second, when there is a need for the participation of these persons in a special device within the Integrated System of Protection and Relief Operations; and finally, third, when the Emergency Plan of Civil Protection is implemented by the competent authorities. This is the first of two senses. Secondly, the proposal for an extension or amendment of the regime that we have in force is precisely in the sense that this regime should not, in our view, be more dependent on a case-by-case evaluation, adopted annually by a resolution of the Council of Ministers, that is to say, be enshrined in the law, because this is the way justice is done to these people, and thus, in a more operationally correct way, proper planning and programming of the operational firefighting system is done. This is, therefore, in summary, the proposal presented by the Left Block for this debate, because we believe that it is the fair response that the country owes to those who offer its full availability and ultimately, if necessary, their lives to defend lives and goods that are foreign to it. This is therefore a measure of recognition and recognition which is necessary and fair. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u22	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recognition of volunteer firefighters is indeed done with words, but it is also done with concrete acts. And this Government and this majority have, throughout this legislature, given unequivocal evidence that they recognize this work. And we see concrete measures: exemption from the payment of moderate rates in the National Health Service; exemption from vehicle tax in the acquisition of operational cars; relaunch of investment in the sector. These are facts, not just words.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u24	The first one is true! But only the first is that it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u25	As regards the specific projects which are under consideration today, the same result from a complaint which appeared this year, when the Government felt it was not necessary to make the resolution of the Council of Ministers which was usually made. following this, there were clear explanations of the understanding on this matter and the facts show us that, despite the absence of a resolution by the Council of Ministers on this matter, there were 149 firefighters who resorted to this system against 75 in the previous year, in which there was its resolution. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] And the data tell us that it is 2, 9 days in concrete and that there was no unjustified fault, which clearly shows that the system that was in force did not bring any entropy. But in any case, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, although it feels comfortable with the legislation that exists, will not, of course, impede the discussion of this issue and even improve its legislation on the subject. And I therefore believe that, during the debate in the committee's specialty, we will all have the opportunity to find the best solutions to ensure that this matter is not conflicting, a matter of litigation, but a matter of global understanding. But I cannot but say that there are some aspects here that we should take into account and that we should be careful. Today's legislation, as it is, guarantees this dispensation to firefighters who are civil servants such as those who are private. And we need to be careful to ensure that all volunteer firefighters are in fact subject to this exemption regime. Today, however, with the proposals under consideration, we may have some interpretative doubts about the result. More: the basic law of civil protection must also be clearly safeguarded, as well as the contracting regimes and the exercise of functions in public functions. These are aspects that I always wanted to highlight. I conclude by saying that, precisely in the field of expertise, we will have every opportunity to discuss and improve this project. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u26	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss several legislative initiatives aimed at improving the dispensation mechanisms of public administration workers for the exercise of functions such as volunteer firefighters, as well as a change to the composition of the National Firefighters Council to include it in the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters. Before addressing the issue, we would like to emphasise, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, the important role that voluntary firefighters play in our country. Voluntary firemen are the first line and, in many cases, the only civil protection line in the fight against fires,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u29	... to help the victims or to help the patients. We want to say that, despite the very important role they play in society, they are not recognized in financing this same importance and the services they provide to the community. Today, firefighters survive with the transport of patients and with a financing law that matters to review, as the PCP has been putting in place. Nor can we fail to mention that the PSD and the CDS-PP, which now say to defend the volunteer firefighters, are the same as the government, have withdrawn the exemption from the moderate rate to the volunteer firefighters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u30	That's a lie! [[It was the PS!]] [[It was the PS!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u31	...for sure, to value your role in society.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u32	No, it wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u33	They are the same ones that have not solved the financing problem, they are the same — PSD and CDS — that the problem of individual protective equipment for all firefighters has not been solved. As regards the initiatives under discussion today, we agree that the legal dispensation regime for employees of the Public Administration should be improved. However, we believe that the exemption should not be limited to the critical phase of forest fires. The NAP project extends, and well, what is the period in which the dispensation can be used, thus giving a greater range of possibilities for firefighter cooperation, which we welcome. On the other hand, we also understand that dispensation problems are not limited to public administration workers. The workers in the private sector actually live dramatic situations of persecutions, pressures, so that they do not exercise the right to dispensation...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u35	... and I believe that the legislative process should also reflect on this same reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u37	We therefore agree that the legal dispensation regime will be improved and that the composition of the National Firefighters Council will be required, extending it to the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters, as it is of full justice and proposed. in this sense, the CFP Parliamentary Group announces its vote in favour of the legislative initiatives presented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u39	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer records requests for speech, so it considers the discussion of the drafts of lein. 305, 373, 376, 377 and 379 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We moved on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 472 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a guarantee stamp for companies with practices responsible for recruitment and inclusion in the active life of young people ( PS ). To present the initiative, Mr Ivan Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The precariousness and low wages today, unfortunately, mark the life and labor relations of the younger Portuguese, of those we used to characterize as the most qualified generation of our country ever. The narrative built over the past few years, particularly on the ideological right, which has its worthy representatives in the CDS and PSD in this House, tells us erroneously that it is necessary to simplify the labour market in order to create more jobs and to make these jobs better paid. It is true that we all want the Portuguese economy to be competitive, and it is also true that we understand that private initiative must be promoted and that it helps to create wealth and dynamize the economy. But what we don't accept, sirs. Members, it is that this competitiveness and this flexibility have invariably translated into more precariousness than does not bring better wages or more jobs. And this dimension is evident if we take into account that, according to INE data, young people under 25 years of age in 2014 averaged a net salary of €587 per month or that between 2009 and 2014 the fall in income of younger families reached, on average, 29 %, when the national average of this income breakdown was 12 %. But this mistaken view of those who want to further liberalize labour relations was also that of the previous government and it was, for example, a total lack of criteria in the implementation of active employment policies. Lack of criteria because, yielding to purely electoralist pressure, nearly exhausted the funds available for active employment measures by 2020, tripled the expenditure in 2014 and 2015 at the expense of the budgets of the following years. But, essentially, there is a lack of criteria because the money they put into these measures served, in the vast majority, to support the creation of internships, and was not useful in creating stable jobs and with decent wages. The stages, being, in principle, a good measure, are often used as a state-subsidised rotating door, allowing the creation of low-cost labour for the performance of functions which, being permanent, should be ensured by workers with stable working links. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is therefore important to develop public policies to stimulate the creation of decent employment while at the same time combating precariousness and low wages, something with which the current government has been fully committed. We have had a good example of this with the creation of the employment premium, which aims to support the creation of medium- and long-term jobs. in the same sense, the draft resolution we present today in this House aims to create a guarantee seal to be assigned to entities and companies without precarious work relations that clearly promote practices responsible for hiring and insertion of young people in active life. It is therefore a matter of recognizing and promoting the good examples of labour relations between employers and workers, who not only comply with what is laid down in the law but who go beyond that and effectively promote good practices for valuing work in our country in its various domains. The creation of this guarantee seal is an important step for the moralization of the labour market, contributing to the indication that the human resources policy that a company follows should be a factor to be taken into account in the assessment that society makes of its merit. We therefore hope that this draft resolution will deserve the approval of all parties in this Chamber, in the interests of promoting decent, stable and quality work that we all want to become the rule rather than the exception in the lives of young Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u41	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft resolution presented by the Socialist Party here brings us some perplexities, I confess, because, of course, the title of the project and, basically, all the intervention that Mr Ivan Gonçalves here made refers to the serious, indeed, problem of young employment, but this does not correspond to the content of the draft resolution, where there is no reference to young people or to young employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u43	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u44	I do not know if it was a lapse, but the truth is this, it refers to a number of problems with regard to work, but it does not specifically have to do with young employment. On the other hand, Mr President, the perplexity also results from the fact that this project basically followed closely what was a CDS proposal last May through draft resolution No 287 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), which we have presented here, where we propose certification of companies with the Portuguese Standard, with the Familyly Responsible Entities or similar ones. And, in essence, this concern falls within the framework of this draft resolution. But strangely, at the time when the CDS presented this same proposal, the Socialist Party was against, and hence our perplexity. So the PS agrees with the proposals when they are on its own initiative and is against when the initiatives come from the other side of the bench. I believe it was this arrogance, that we have not only found by the parties that support this majority but also by the government, which was once again demonstrated here. And that is to be regretted, Mr President. But the perplexity doesn't stay here. In addition to this, the fact that the draft resolution of the CDS went further at the time because it did not only propose certification, it proposed in particular that this certification had consequences for the increase in applications for public, national and Community support. Yes, there was a consequence of the award of certification, while, in this case, it is because of the allocation of a seal that is totally inconsequential. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this seems to us to be clearly insufficient. at a time when we find that young employment is not accompanying the downward curve of unemployment—and since June that is—and is not accompanying the upward curve of job creation, young employment, in fact, should deserve all the concern of this government and, in particular, of the Socialist Party, who has only presented a draft resolution that seems totally inconsequential and, in this sense, perfectly harmless. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u45	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing a draft resolution — and I congratulate Mr Ivan Gonçalves on the fact that he has tabled it — whose subject is relevant, not least because it leads us to talk about young employment and employability, or at least it should lead us to talk about it. I will not waste time explaining the impact that bankruptcy has on younger generations when there is no job creation. I do not know how, the Socialist Party made a speech as if suddenly the country had seen itself with many young unemployed people because of whom it had to deal with this problem. Anyway, I will not waste time explaining this for two reasons: the first is because we, unlike the Socialist Party, like not to waste time talking about the past and the second is because what matters is that, after all, young people have already realized that this speech is about those who run away from their responsibility. Let us then speak of this draft resolution, which, as has already been said, is harmless. Mr Ivan Gonçalves, as you know, I have a lot of appreciation for you and I understand your need, even for your recent duties, to present some initiative to this plenary which relates to young employment and employability. But, in reality, this initiative that he presented does not guarantee anything at all, he just says to the government that he can make a print — « this company is good, it does good things». This represents zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u48	Mr Ivan Gonçalves, I understand that, but there is a limit. And there is an even greater limit when the honourable Member and his bench are building this same draft resolution by saying, imagine, what is included in the Government's programme to combat the precariousness, the numbers and the measures — bad, in your view — implemented by the previous government. On this point, I ask the honourable Member: where are your active measures to combat young unemployment? Your actions are neither good nor bad, there are no! If anything went well, on the limit, it was because of the measures that already existed. Since you have not done anything yet, something will have to recognize what has been done before.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u50	Mr Ivan Gonçalves, there is a national plan against precariousness to be presented to this Assembly of the Republic almost a year ago and nobody talks about it, because now it doesn't matter. He who used to talk about him now doesn't talk about him anymore. Does it seem good to you, Mr Commissioner, to justify this national plan with this draft resolution? If it is to present draft resolutions, I can also help you. The honourable Member is sure that he knows that the length of the stages he spoke about has passed from nine to six months. On 30 June 2014 it was possible to read: « Socialist Youth requires the Government to step back in reducing the duration of professional internships ». Why? Because « the desire to reduce the duration of vocational training is only another proof of the government's indifference to the problems of Portuguese youth ». Mr President, if you have now reduced the duration of the stages from nine to six months, what do you have to say to the socialist youth who now demands support from the Government? It's just that no one has heard you even talk about this subject. Still on the professional stages, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, what do you have to say about the hierarchy of companies? In fact, companies that we cannot even control because we have no access, because we have no more than propaganda. And let's hear what the social partners are saying around here...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u52	Finally, Mr President, by asking Mr Ivan Gonçalves: is he not concerned that, with regard to companies applying for internships and will receive State support, either by means of points which the Government will define which companies it believes will receive this money? Does it not seem strange to you that lack of transparency?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u53	Madam Member, I have already asked you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u54	It would like to ask whether these criteria will be made available closer to the authorities in order to eventually be able to encourage the most successful electorate. Mr Deputy, of the EUR 500 million that the European Union has made available for the employment package in the Community budget for 2017, how much is it coming to Portugal? What are you gonna do with that money? Do something, please, before the end of 2017, and they still have a lot of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u55	Mrs. Member, be patient. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u56	I will finish, Mr. President. As this motion for a resolution is harmless, what we differ from today is that we demand the same thing that we demanded before. We want to know what you're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to say this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u57	I understand that you are. Ladies and gentlemen, within time, they need to conclude their reasonings, but when the Bureau makes an appeal, I request that this appeal be addressed. Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Draft resolution No 472 / XIII ( 2. a ), presented by the Socialist Party, aims to promote, through the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the creation of a guarantee seal for companies that have good work practices. It defends this initiative, including the remuneration policy, the establishment of endless contracts, the encouragement of birth, the fight against unjustified turnover, false professional stages, the promotion of intergenerational relations and the definition of practices of social responsibility. Of course, we generally accompany all these concerns, and some are more generic than others. On this subject, I think we all agree more or less. What is important is to have a debate in addition to that, i.e. a debate to understand how we fight job insecurity, how we fight young unemployment, how we "destruct" labour relations. This is the debate the Left Block wants to do. If this debate is not held here in the Assembly of the Republic, such measures, certainly well-intentioned, become harmless and inconsequential. Obviously, we will not impede the existence of a guarantee stamp, because it is important for companies to have labour legislation in which workers feel protected against precariousness and the facilitation of dismissal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u59	If that doesn't happen, we can practice all kinds of stamps, stamps, postal codes, pamphlets, whatever we want. We are in a position to do this and we are here to support it. But it would be important that, along with this legislative initiative, we could know the precarious report, which, in fact, could already be out here to debate what measures are really going to combat precariousness, young unemployment, false stages, the abuse of temporary workers. That is at the heart of the matter, and that is the debate that the Block of the Left requires the Assembly of the Republic to do, as well as the demand that the Government deliver this report to us in order to have a broad debate in Portuguese society. Could this be one of the measures to combat precariousness and unemployment? We will be here to discuss, we want to know the numbers, so that this debate is not anticipated and does not lack information for an effective fight against these problems and the same social scourge. Therefore, Mr. Ivan Gonçalves, we will not hinder the draft resolution from having its natural development if approval is found in the Assembly of the Republic, we want to define the position of the Left Block very well. We want to 'destruct' labour relations and we want to combat the abuse of temporary workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u60	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u61	I will finish, Mr. President. In order to rest on the right, I would like to say that the report on combating precariousness exists and exists because the Left Block proposed it and has measures in this regard. [[Well remembered!]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u62	So you can rest, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes. That is what we want to do, and that is the centre of the strategy to combat precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u63	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal we are discussing today, concerning the creation of a guarantee seal for good practices responsible for the recruitment and inclusion of young people in active life, leads us to reflect on some matters. Firstly, we believe that compliance with the law and the Constitution should not be accredited or valued, because it is the obligation of companies to comply with the law and the Constitution. It is different to conclude that today the practice in many workplaces in the Public Administration and in the private sector in our country goes through the illegal use of precariousness and the use of multiple forms of precarious work that do not correspond to what is enshrined in the law and the Constitution. Therefore, the fight that is required is the fight for employment with rights, and this is something that we consider important to refer to the head of this debate, because if you want to be told, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, on the part of the CFP, we reject at all this theory announced here by the CDS that companies that comply with the law have to have tax or other benefits. No, they don't! Companies that comply with the law and the Constitution are doing nothing more than their obligation. That is why we understand that law must indeed be enforced. It is urgent to require the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) to have the necessary means to ensure supervision. We remember that at the time of the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, there were 200 job inspectors and there was not even one job inspector for each municipality in the country. And this was not by chance, but because the political project of the previous government was to ensure that the enforcement of the law, and a law that was negative to the workers, did not even happen. We understand that we need to go further: it is necessary for a permanent job to correspond to an effective bond and that the position, the political orientation of the ACT to be punitive and inspection. We also understand that combating unemployment and precariousness is a fight for democracy and is central. It is not possible to combat unemployment without combating precariousness. But over four years, we have heard the PSD and CDS say that it is worth more than unemployment. We believe that no, we believe that the alternative to unemployment is not precarious, it is right employment, and companies are obliged to comply with the law and the Constitution in this matter. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Ivan Gonçalves, I would also like to tell you very frankly that we obviously follow the objectives and principles of this proposal. however, we know many companies that have the certification of social responsibility and do not recognize workers who guarantee their profits. For example, EDP, which has extraordinary profits in the country, does not recognize the thousands of workers who have in the callcenter, who bear and mass every day, with its work, the profits of EDP. Mr President, I would like to ask myself: does EDP need a guarantee stamp for good practice? Don't! It needs to ensure that thousands of callcenter workers are linked to their tables and have the same rights as the EDP Management Board. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u65	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u66	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we are here to hold this debate on good practice, because democracy requires it. The fulfilment of the rights of workers and the Constitution is not a favor done by companies, that is what is enshrined and is the spirit of our democracy. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u67	For a second speech, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, who still has time available, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Deputies Luís Monteiro and Rita Rato, we fully agree. The idea of this draft resolution is not to replace the law and the Constitution, because it has to be applied, it is only to promote responsible attitudes on the part of companies, such as decent, well-remunerated work and good practice. So, as far as this is concerned, we fully agree. What is illegal is up to ACT and courts to decide and this is the main way to combat precariousness and abusive labour relations in Portugal. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, I noticed that he reacted with perplexity, but we, on the side of the Socialist Party, did not react with perplexity to the fact that he did not mention the word "precautionary" for a single time. in fact, the right of this Chamber does not even recognize precariousness as a problem of labour relations in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u69	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u70	I'm done now, Mr. President. You are wrong when you mention that precariousness is just a problem of young employment. It's not! That is why this draft resolution is made for all workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u71	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u72	I'm done now, Mr. President. Precautionary is not just a problem of young employment, and that is why this draft resolution is made for all workers. I would also like to know what the purpose of voting on the CDS-PP bench is now because you accused us of some sectarianism, but you did not mention what it was going to be the meaning of voting on your bench. Finally, Mr President, I would also like to say to Mrs Joana Barata Lopes that the reduction that the PSD/CDS government has made in stages, going from 12 months to 9 months, was only for one reason: so that these trainees can no longer have access to unemployment benefit when they finish their internship relations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u73	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u74	I will now finish, Mr President. The fact is that, by reducing from nine to six, what this government has done was to move the stages into a shorter period of time, promoting employment. In fact, the honourable Member has accused this government of not having any measures to promote employment, but I mean once again that the job award...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u75	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u76	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, the job prize was created, reducing the time of the stages from nine to six months, placing the money, which was previously put in stages, in the creation of permanent and medium and long-term jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u77	Mr President, I have already asked you three times to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u78	I will finish, Mr. President. The honourable Member has tried to close this draft resolution to the functions I perform today and that was a lack of attention, because this draft resolution entered the Assembly of the Republic in September. Therefore, the honourable Member should have given more attention to those dates. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u79	Mrs. Members, we are now going to move on to the third point of our agenda, which is from the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein. 307 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a new legal regime to combat harassment at the workplace ( BE), 371 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the legislative framework for the prevention of harassment in the context of work in the private sector and in the Public Administration ( PS ), 375 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Prevents and combats harassment at the workplace ( Tenth Amendment to the Labour Code and Fifth Amendment to the Labour Procedure Code ) ( PCP ) and 378 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen protection against acts of harassment within the framework of labour relations ( NAP ). Let's start the presentation of the diplomas. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One in six workers in Portugal says he has already been a victim of harassment at work. We are talking, for these people, about situations of terror and true psychological torture, with deliberate intent: to cause the worker to lose his job or leave the company to get rid of the hell in which they have turned his life, falsely imputing to that worker responsibility for the situation of which he is a victim. Moral harassment has devastating consequences for those who work, physical and psychological. But for many companies, it has become a work force management maneuver that compensates. Isolating and humiliating people, they do, in practice, illegal, indirect redundancies, bypassing the law, rooting with those who pursue and freeing themselves from the payment of compensation to which workers would be entitled. They will tell us that the punishment of the harassment already exists in the law. But, then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the practice: there are more than 600 000 workers who call themselves victims of harassment. But how many complaints have there been in recent years? in 2014, five moral harassment complaints were lodged at the Equal Labour and Employment Commission ( ISCED ). Five! For sexual harassment, one! In 2015, eight complaints were filed for moral harassment! For sexual harassment! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a context of domestication of workers by fear, blackmail and precariousness, the legal regime that exists is not effective in combating this worrying phenomenon. It is to respond to this reality that the Left Block started a few months ago working with specialists, jurists, trade unions and associations to build a new legal regime to combat moral harassment at work. The law needs to be changed first, because whoever wants to report and who is a witness is not protected. Does it make any sense that people who are victims of harassment may be the target of an internal disciplinary process for the company if they decide to speak? It doesn't, but that's what happens! And that's to end with what we present this bill. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Secondly, the concept of harassment, as it is in the law, only covers the so-called "discriminatory harassment", which implies the comparison between two colleagues in the same situation, excluding situations where harassment is individualized and in which that comparison is impossible. That is also what our project is about to change. Thirdly, the evidence is too difficult. To place the burden on employers, as happens in dozens of other situations in the Labour Code, since the presumption of contract to dismissal, seems to us to be determining. Fourthly, from the point of view of costs for companies, harassment continues to compensate. If they wanted to fire a worker, employers would have to respect the law and pay the compensation, and the same would be true if a worker wanted to terminate a contract with just cause. in the case of harassment, the company forces the person to leave his or her own foot, induces him or her a physical and psychological state that obliges him to take care of his or her work and then accuses the victim of being blamed for his or her misfortune. It is also to combat these outrageous practices that we present this bill. Fifthly, we want to hold companies accountable, worsen the sanctioning framework, blame them for the damage they cause, and we want to create a blacklist of pre-varicing companies, forcing that information to be published and which is made up of job announcements. We welcome the parties who have added their contributions to this debate. We are here to work together and take on that responsibility. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u81	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Moreira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « For about three years my duties have been progressively emptied. I ended up in the ‘exile’ where I am now, banished to a remote room and without any assigned functions’. « I don't want to live, I'm exhausted, I don't believe in my low doctor, I don't live, I'm alive». These are a few words from two of the hundreds of people who write in despair as well as their history. The harassment at the workplace has characteristics of torture and has an ally in precariousness. Pisa, humiliating, degrading, "dignifying", is silent, is silent, is strong and cowardly and its victims not only fall into the discontinuance of their jobs but suffer physical and moral consequences that affect their health in a loud way. The murder kills! Portugal has more than three times as many victims of labour harassment as the European average, most of whom are victims, women, always women! Labour harassment does not fade with the approval of laws. But the law needs to be improved and adapted to the phenomenon ahead. And we are facing a just, necessary and urgent cause. Few people are still aware that this House approved the amendment to the Penal Code, provided for in Law No 83 / 2015 of 5 August 2015 which created the new crime of persecution. The harassment at the workplace is a crime, we went beyond what was required by the Istanbul Convention, and we did well. It's good that whoever chases the workers and the workers in a vile way knows he's committing a crime. We are not satisfied with the current wording of the Labour Code and do not accept the insufficient reference made by the General Labour Law in Public Functions to the Labour Code. It must be made clear that the practice of harassment constitutes a very serious counter-ordination, regardless of criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u83	It was already there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u84	It is necessary to counter the inertia of employers themselves in the supervision and condemnation of these behaviours, so it is proposed to include in the employer's list of duties the duties of adopting codes of good conduct of prevention and combating harassment at work...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u85	That's not innovative!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u86	... and establish disciplinary proceedings whenever you are aware of alleged situations of harassment at the workplace, cautioning that failure to comply with these duties becomes a serious counter-ordination. This triangulation is fundamental, because information is power, combating harassment has to be a duty and to establish disciplinary processes in the event of alleged harassment situations is to take seriously. We are not only talking about the important right of compensation which is clarified with this bill; we are talking about an articulation of predictions and consequences that must be seen together, because it is in this set that they present and gain strength. in the area of Public Administration, it is clarified and reinforced in its drafting that the harassment regime of the Labour Code applies to workers and workers of public entities. The duties of the public employer become the same as those of the private employer. It is also determined that their monitoring bodies — the Labour Conditions and General Inspection Authority — shall provide their own electronic addresses for the receipt of harassment complaints in the context of work and information, on their electronic sites, on the identification of harassment practices and on preventive measures to combat and respond to situations of harassment, and shall include in their annual report the statistical data relating to the activity carried out under this scheme. Of course we welcome all the other initiatives. This project contributes to a fight that has to have many other fronts, so that there is less fear, less shame, more information, more visibility of legal competences, more effective accountability and more deterrence of the practice of harassment. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u87	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, the study and follow-up of harassment at the workplace, although not a recent reality, has been still insufficient for study and analysis. The harassment is not the isolated act, but a process of taking advantage of the weakness or fragility of the victim, of his hierarchically inferior professional position, or of his precarious bond, in order to achieve his dignity, causing damage to his rights and his moral and physical integrity. in fact, harassment does not represent an organizational deviation, but rather, the spirit and principle of human resources management based on the values of excellence and individualism, imposed through mechanisms of subtle control of subjectivity and the degradation of labor relations. in fact, harassment is an integral part of a labour control strategy according to the immediate needs of capital. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: successive legislative amendments made over the past few years, and in particular in the last four years of the PSD/CDS government, characterized by facilitation and embarrassment of dismissal, the generalization of precariousness, the increase and deregulation of working hours, the costs with justice and laxity in the processes, have aggravated the vulnerability and deprotection of workers in the face of repeated practices and attacks on their dignity. in recent years, the climate of disrespect and violation of rights in the workplace, repeated practices of threat, direct and indirect pressure, blackmail, psychological violence and repression on workers, as a form of strengthening the power of the employers and fragility of the claiming action, has been aggravated. Almost always these practices tend to become permanent psychological coercion with consequences beyond the workplace space, generating deep instability and anxiety in personal and family life. In addition to this individual dimension, the promotion of this policy of fear involves a collective dimension of conditioning or even of preventing the exercise of the rights, freedoms and constitutional guarantees of workers in many companies and services of the private and public sector, which, of course, represents a profound degradation of the democratic regime. Mr. President and Mr. Members, aware that this is a complex scourge and that requires multidisciplinary measures, the CFP aims with this legislative initiative to reinforce a simultaneous preventive, punitive and restorative path. Thus, we propose that the worker's harmful discriminatory acts, embodied in the practice of harassment, be considered as occupational risks to the worker's health. We propose the solidarity responsibility of the employer for the damage caused to the worker victim of harassment by another worker. We propose the protection of the victim worker and witnesses, which cannot be the target of any disciplinary proceedings based on facts or declarations made in the context of the counter-order national court proceedings based on the practice of harassment. We propose the basis for the illegal dismissal and dismissal for just cause on the initiative of the worker based on the practice of harassment. We propose that it be considered a list of ancillary sanctions to be charged to the employer by the practice of harassment, such as the prohibition of the exercise of activity, deprivation of the right to participate in public tenders and to apply to any active employment measures and professional stages co-financed by public bodies. This is the contribution of the CFP, this is a debate on democracy. [[PCP, BE, and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u89	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The practice of acts of harassment, both moral and sexual, is a reality in the workplace. Being unwanted behavior causes devastating effects, disrupting or restricting the person, affecting his dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or destabilizing environment. The harassment can cause stress, loss of self-esteem, anxiety, depression, apathy, irritability, memory and sleep disorders, and may even lead to suicide. A recent study promoted by the Commission for Equality in Labour and Employment, in collaboration with other entities, revealed that 17 % of the Portuguese working population has ever experienced a situation of moral harassment and 13 % of sexual harassment during their working life. In Portugal, although labour harassment is prohibited, practice shows that the legal regime in question has not produced the desired effects, which is why we are also discussing today a legislative initiative of the NAP which aims to strengthen its regime. We therefore propose the introduction of two amendments to the Labour Code: the consecration expressed in the harassment regime of the obligation to compensate the victim of harassment for property and non-patrimonial damage and the provision, as a just cause for resolution of the employment contract by the worker, the practice of acts harassing the employer, his representative or by member who integrates the organization. We also propose two additions to that law: the termination of the employment contract, at the employer's initiative, depends on a prior opinion issued by the service with the responsibility of inspecting the ministry responsible for the area of work, i.e. the Commission for Equality at Work and Employment, and also employers who are considered medium-sized and large-sized enterprises are obliged to establish the procedures to be adopted in the event of a complaint of a situation of harassment in their organisation, in particular for the purpose of applying interim precautionary measures. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for all this, the amendments to the Labour Code that we now propose will contribute to strengthening the current regime of combating harassment in the workplace, dissuading its practice and properly protecting those who suffer from it. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u91	For an intervention, Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS is concerned and condemns work harassment practices. The current legislation condemns these practices and already provides for sanctions. It's a crime, it's a serious counterordination. We have always been available to discuss the issue and find the best legal solutions to protect the victims and punish the aggressors. We are not available to trivialize or contribute to confusing what should not be confused. Those who want to make labor harassment such a broad and indeterminate concept that vulgarizes or makes inaccurate what is the true harassment is devaluing the victims of this censorable practice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u93	Anyone who, in the sanction framework, considers that he must sanction companies by putting their survival and survival of jobs at stake is punishing victims and hindering the proof, because no one will have the opportunity to understand that, if there is a situation of harassment, he may be challenging the survival of his job. The truth is that this measure has a dissuasive and contradictory effect on what some proposers proclaim. in practice, what is being said is: « Silence not to question the job». Those who propose that the burden of proof be reversed, and this evidence would be evidence of a negative fact, that is, the company would have to prove that there is no harassment, which is impossible to prove — in fact, the so-called "diabolic evidence" — is promoting false harassment complaints, questioning justice and the rule of law. In this way, the proposals which are not understood because it is necessary to protect witnesses if they are no longer necessary, because the company has to prove that there is no harassment. As I have already said, we are available to study the best solutions — we consider, in fact, that they should be the subject of dialogue in social dialogue — and seek to ensure that these same solutions serve to protect the victims. To do the opposite is to harm them. One question is put to the Socialist Party: will it enable the projects of its partners, Left Block and PCP, which have the defects I have pronounced or is it more a matter in which it counts with the opposition to avoid the evils that most people persist in wanting to do? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u94	Mrs Sandra Pereira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u95	Mr. President: The issue before us today is a matter of concern and has been recognized for many years. The harassment at the workplace is, in the opinion of the PSD Parliamentary Group, a phenomenon of the greatest censorship that deserves to be fought continuously.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u97	The PSD has dealt with this issue in recent years in the government and has contributed to this fight. In March 2013 the ISCED prepared an information guide to prevent and combat situations of harassment at work, an instrument that aims to support self-regulation and was distributed to companies. Today morning, I heard at the TSF Mr. Inspector General of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) say that the spread of harassment goes a long way through the education and training of citizens, both business citizens and workers citizens. It's for the pedagogy, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, and for the sensitization that this bet should be made. Our bet must favour prevention, to the detriment of punishment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u98	In 2014, the previous Government also promoted a study on sexual and moral harassment in Portugal to enable a real diagnosis of the situation and a better understanding of the topic. The objective has been achieved, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, even because you have used this instrument to support your legislative initiatives, as you have mentioned it in the explanatory statement of your legislative initiatives. I have to tell you that something has not been done in Portugal since the past 20 years. This study only parallels another study carried out 20 years ago in 1994 on sexual harassment in the labour market. however, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the issue is far from being closed and, of course, deserves reflection.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u99	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u100	The draft law submitted by the Socialist Party is redundant and harmless — basically, it reiterates numerous obligations already arising from the law, such as the obligation to compensate the worker and an electronic address for complaints, which already appears on the ACT website — and, Mrs. Members, the other draft laws have technical and legal errors, they are sick of dangerous ideological radicalisms and contain provisions that we even accept that they have the objective of protecting workers but to such a limit as to harm them. It's not reasonable, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are jointly responsible for the company when the harassment is committed by the personal act of one worker on the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u101	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u102	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u103	It is unacceptable to transfer to the employer damage repair in place of social security. in the case of insolvent companies, the worker is totally unprotected...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u105	... and the totally absurd question of the reversal of the burden of proof, provided for in the diplomas of the Left Block, the PCP and the PAN, is not compatible with the presumption of innocence, which also applies in contra-ordinary crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u106	You know what that burden means, don't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u107	We do not consider it acceptable for the employer to prove a negative fact. Finally, the more serious is the aberrant proposal of the PCP, which defends — see there! — the closure of the company as an accessory penalty, harming not only that worker as all others, who remain with their jobs threatened, jeopardising the economy and employment in Portugal. This is what the CFP is proposing to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u108	That doesn't remind anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u109	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u110	I will finish, Mr. President. Combating harassment in the labour market cannot be done at the expense of dismantling the labour market itself... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u111	... and the PSD will always be available to introduce improvements to the law that will appear relevant, but without ideological radicalisms and without precipitation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u112	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is true that situations of disrespect and violation of labour rights in the workplace are not at present, we are not talking about a new phenomenon, it is also true that in recent years, especially with the policies of the previous Government, PSD / CDS, situations of harassment in the workplace have gained more worrying dimensions. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u114	In fact, something else would not be expected,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u115	...because policies such as those pursued by the previous government, in particular when it facilitated dismissal or when it sought to establish precariousness as a rule...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u117	However, if we are imposing precarious labour law, of course we are facilitating cases of harassment. Why? Because both the precariousness of work and the fact that it is easier to fire are decisive factors to facilitate, I would say even to boost the climate of fear and disrespect in the workplace. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u118	They are decisive factors to facilitate threats, pressure, blackmail and coercion that are made about workers and workers in our country. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, am I saying something again? I'm not saying anything again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u119	Exactly! Unfortunately, that's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u120	This permanent coercion that is gaining strength in labor relations naturally causes fear and anxiety in the workplace and, even, reaches even relatives themselves, who are so often forced to use medical care. But it also causes a climate of intimidation with those who work, which often leads to workers feeling inhibited from exercising their own labour rights. The studies tell us — which is not surprising — that there is a direct relationship between harassment at work and precarious work. I therefore did not understand what the PSD Member said here when she referred to the work of the previous Government on this matter. Madam Member, there is a direct relationship between precariousness and the phenomenon we are discussing here! [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] in our country, according to studies, most victims of harassment in the workplace are women, but it is a phenomenon that also reaches a significant number of men, about 16%. In addition, it should also be noted that harassment at work shows very high numbers in our country compared to the average of all other European countries. In view of this scenario, the Greens consider that this House cannot remain indifferent, cannot pretend that nothing is happening and that it is all right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u122	It is therefore important to take legislative measures to combat harassment practices in workplaces, which are causing so much damage to workers and workers in our country. [[Applause from The Greens and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u123	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u124	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u125	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u126	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u127	Mr President, the PSD Member clearly must have had access to another document other than the PS bill. He therefore asked for the bill to be distributed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u128	You don't have to!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u129	... where it is clear that the harassment becomes very serious counter-ordination, that the failure to comply with the obligations of employers becomes serious counter-ordinations...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u130	Mrs. Deputy, you asked for the diploma to be distributed. If you make it to the Bureau, it will be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u131	I don't know if you are at the General Finance Inspectorate today, some electronic address, but you would like the Bureau to have the bill circulated to Mrs PSD's deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u132	Mrs. Isabel Moreira, the appeal was addressed to the Bureau, isn't it? Mrs Rita Rato of the PCP has the floor for a final intervention, I believe.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u133	Exactly, Mr. President. Mr President, Mrs Sandra Pereira, I will not spend time or effort explaining to you what is an accessory sanction. [[PSD protests.]] Even more to explain to someone, as is the case with the PSD, who puts himself on the side of those who practice organized harassment and the patronage that promotes it, instead of standing next to those who are victims of harassment. Indeed, ideological radicalism is to make changes to the Labour Code that promote repression, persecution, threat and blackmail — that is, yes, ideological radicalism —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u135	... is to amend the Labour Code to protect workers completely and place them at the mercy of the patronage and its intentions to operate. The CFP's commitment is another one, as it could never be. Asbestos in the workplace is unacceptable and there is no need for education, it is necessary to create measures to punish those who practice it, the companies who practice it. This is the commitment of the PCP, not as the PSD and the CDS, who say it is condemned but want to leave everything in it because they live well with this and companies who practice it should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u136	Madam Member, I have to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u137	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we believe that the fight against harassment is an essential dimension, requires multidisciplinary measures, but we are here to take them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u138	Mr Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Sandra Pereira spoke about education and prevention and, on our part, all in favour of prevention. But in cases of harassment, you do not want to hold companies responsible, you do not want to facilitate proof, you do not want to do anything. What do you do? Are you asking the employer not to be ill-educated? Mrs Deputy, this is called inconsequence. There are 600,000 people who are victims of harassment and there were eight complaints. The gentlemen. Do you really think that the law that exists is effective? Oh, my God! It is not these projects, Mr. Carlos Monteiro, which call into question the jobs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u140	Put it on, put it on!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u141	...is the harassment that calls into question the jobs...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u143	...and what makes people lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u145	On the facilitation of proof, to conclude, Mr President, according to the law, as you know, if a worker invokes that he was unlawfully dismissed, it is the employer who is charged with the burden of proof. Mr. António Carlos Monteiro, do you think that's diabolical?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u146	It's diabolical, because it's a negative fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u147	It has already been noted with this debate that workers do not have the CDS and PSD to combat moral harassment in companies and at work, but that is not new. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u148	The Left Block here will be...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u149	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u150	...to, in dialogue with the CFP, the Socialist Party and the NAP, build a diploma that can be effective in this fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u151	Mrs. Members, we conclude the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.o 307, 371, 375 and 378 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor now to announce initiatives which have now entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Bill No. 383 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The decentralization of competences for municipalities and inter-municipal entities and in the fregeges in education, health, social action, territorial management, forest management, coastal management, veterinary medicine, animal health and food security ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission and draft resolution No 627 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government include a specific point on the agenda of the next Luso-Spanish Summit on the Almaraz nuclear power plant, as well as the need to proceed to its closure ( PSD ), which also falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u153	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next point of our agenda, which is from the joint assessment, also in general, of the projects of lein.o 215 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repositions the holiday scheme in public service, including the right to 25 days of annual holidays and additional holiday days depending on age, by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ( PCP ), 216 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Assigned the right to 25 days of annual holidays by the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), 161 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recognizes the right to 25 holidays in the private sector ( BE ), 370 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reposition of the right to a minimum of 25 holiday days in the civil service increased by age up to 28 days ( BE ), 380 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, recognizing the right to 25 working days of vacation ( NAP) and 381 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the General Law on Public Works adopted by Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, recognizing the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP ). To present the legislative initiatives of the CFP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to paid holidays is a conquest of the April Revolution. The right to leisure aims to provide the worker with the guarantee of moments of rest, ensuring the articulation of professional, family and personal life. The importance of the principle of dignity in the relationship of work depends to a large extent on the social and economic value of work, ensuring dignified living conditions. For this reason, the CFP today proposes the 25-day holiday guarantee for all workers, without depending on the criterion of attendance, because experience has shown that the application of this criterion has often led to a disadvantage for workers. The truth is that these often fail to enjoy the 25 days of vacation, either because the employer urges the workers not to enjoy them, or because, indeed, the worker needs to miss out to meet the needs of his own personal life and the possibility of justifying the shortcomings does not cover all eventualities. I recall, for example, the follow-up to children with chronic illness, which is not provided for in the Labour Code and do not care about these situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u155	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u156	We also recall that there are legal sanctions associated with unjustified failure, namely loss of remuneration, so associating the penalty for the loss of holidays is clearly excessive, especially if we start from the assumption that the worker will only give an unjustified failure — with all that this leads to — if he has no other option. The CFP submits this proposal, because it is a matter of elementary justice and the replacement of a right. The former government, PSD / CDS, with changes to labour law, withdrew workers three days of vacation and four holidays. The former government, PSD / CDS, was responsible for promoting a free work week for workers in the public and private sectors in our country, and we believe that this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u158	We propose today the replacement of fundamental rights; we propose today the valorization of work, leisure time and the right to life worthy. This is the fight that the PCP brings here today and does not abdicate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u159	To present the legislative initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: Holidays are a constitutional right which has a legal dimension in the Labour Code. And, with regard to the Labour Code, the last few years have been devalued in their entirety. The devaluation of the incomes of those living in their work was made in various ways, with particular focus during the years of the troika and the right government: by tax, by cuts in social protection measures, by direct and indirect wage cuts, by freezing careers and by changes in labour law. overall, this represented a transfer of about 2, 3 billion euros directly from work to capital. however, no attack seemed sufficient and only did not go further because there were many who had fought against these attacks, including through decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thus, one way to increase unpaid working time was to reduce vacation days, depending on the attendance, in the case of the private sector, the increase of these days. This raises several problems. First of all, the increase subject to the justified shortcomings, for the purpose of its allocation, implies accepting that, for example, an assiduous worker who is absent because of the death of the spouse, according to the law, is penalized in relation to another worker in different circumstances. The increase in vacations was therefore a wrong, unfair option and does not guarantee any increase in productivity. Secondly, it meant a direct transfer of income from work to capital, insofar as employers benefited, for three days a year, from work that did not have to pay to workers. And, as happened with other measures, as was the case with the withdrawal of holidays, the workers saw part of the salary withdrawn directly to the employers. Now, the bills now presented by the Block of Left come following a path of reinstatement of income and justice for those who work in our country. at a time when it is assumed as a priority of the country to restore income, it is important to make the way in the Labour Code. Also in the public service is a question of replacement of justice and income, withdrawn in 2014 to workers. thus, it is proposed to recover the regime that was in force before these same amendments. The reversal of serious changes to the Labour Code is a priority for the Left Block. over the last four years, these changes have always been harmful to workers, from the cut-off of the amount of compensation for dismissal to the attack on collective bargaining, from vacation days to the bank of hours, to the decrease in the payment value of the additional work. Mrs. Members, the right strategy since 2012 of deliberate attack on workers was gigantic and represented direct withdrawal of wages. With the replacement of holidays, we have already taken a first step to restore wages and dignity to those who work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u162	With holidays, we are continuing this path, ending what is, in practice, unpaid work in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u163	To present the legislative initiatives of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The two legislative initiatives of the NAP that are being discussed today aim to recognize, both in the public sector and in the private sector, the right to 25 working days of holiday. The 22 working days currently provided for in the Labour Code and the General Law on Public Works are clearly insufficient for us. According to a study by the Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment of 2013, the average of the 27 Member States is thirty-eight hours and a half hours a week, so Portugal is above the average. According to the report of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ), published in July 2016, on the basis of the European Labour Force Survey, Portugal ranks 10. the position, on a list of 38 countries, with the highest workload. Portuguese workers work 1868 hours per year, more than 102 hours than the average of OECD countries. In addition to the long normal periods of work, there are also situations where, even after working hours, workers continue to perform their duties remotely. This was proved by a study of September last year in France, which showed that 37 % of workers use digital tools out of working time, which led to the creation of legislation reflecting the 'right to turn off' and ensuring respect for the rest times of workers. The dominant perception that high levels of productivity are only achieved with high hour loads has been scientifically rejected by several studies indicating that as we increase the number of hours of work, productivity decreases, even being associated with increased productivity the existence of longer periods of rest and leisure. The holiday aims to provide the worker with physical and psychological recovery, as well as conditions of personal availability, integration into family life and social and cultural participation. They help reduce stress, relax and increase energy levels and creativity. In addition, in modern societies, parents are subjected to an amazing pace, working all day, with increasing professional requirements, leaving little time and availability to be with their children. The extension of the holiday period will thus help to encourage increased family leisure, something that we should encourage. In short, it is necessary to create effective conditions that allow a true link between professional, personal and family life, in a balanced way, without the worker being obliged to neglect any of them. The projects we present and discuss meet these objectives. in an increasingly abundant society in goods and services, what is scarce is what we need most: time to live! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u165	Before giving the floor to Mr António Carlos Monteiro, the Bureau asks those who wish to participate in this debate to sign up. You have the floor, Mr. Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us discuss today another set of initiatives that reveal the current state of the left-wing majority. It is the auction of demagogic proposals. last week, it was the passage of Carnival to holiday; now, it is to increase vacations in three more days.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u167	The CDS gets cold! All that is replacement of workers' rights until it makes « chicken skin» to the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u168	This after 35 hours and the replacement of the four holidays that had been suspended. In fact, what we've found is that today we already have 35 days of paid breaks, that is, 22 days of holiday plus 13 holidays. The European average is 32, 8 days, i.e. 22, 1 days of holiday and 10, 7 days of holiday. We are already above the European average.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u170	Once again, the left to the left, without social consultation and without the productivity or improvement of public finances justify it, or approve this measure without even proving its sustainability. What the left proposes is 38 days of paid rest. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] in this auction of promises, it is already necessary to propose the week of five days: five days of rest and two days of work. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] It's reverse the rule, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Since we're record players in debt, we're also going to be record players on the rest days. That's what's necessary! It'll be a great sign for the markets! It will be a great sign, for example, for Belgium, where we work 30 hours, for the Netherlands, where we work 20 hours, for the United Kingdom, for Denmark, for Sweden, for the Czech Republic, for Hungary, i.e. for all our European partners. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] In fact, that's what's necessary! If the proposed holiday for the Third Carnival Fair had been approved, we would even become the country of Europe with more paid breaks!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u171	We're also the ones who work longer hours a year! We work more than 500 hours than Germany!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u172	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, making this proposal without social consultation does not, once again, pass one of your demagogic proposals, from barge to left. What we want to ask the Socialist Party again is the following: what does the Socialist Party intend to do? Are you going to make these proposals viable? [[Go! Go!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u173	Or will you once again count on the opposition to prevent these proposals from being approved? It was important to know, because what we see is that you say you have agreements and are negotiating your proposals. Now, would we like to understand, after all, what is agreed on in this matter, or is it more of those in which they agreed to disagree? Oh, my God! It is now that we were all aware of the extent to which these negotiations are on the left. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u174	The PS doesn't even sleep at night thinking about negotiations!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u175	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we are faced with a significant set of legislative initiatives, are several bills, but with a common goal: to restore another right removed or diminished by the PSD/CDS government. It is therefore intended to eliminate another injustice for those who work imposed by the previous government. The legislative initiatives aim, on the one hand, to restore the right to a minimum of 25 days of annual holidays for public service workers and, on the other hand, to establish the right to 25 days of annual holidays for private sector workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u177	It wasn't just 22 days? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u178	As we know, and as we all certainly remember, the previous government, in its offensive against whom it works, accentuated the degradation of the living conditions of workers while seeking to weaken the social functions of the State and the quality of public services, brought about a reduction in the working days of the public service workers. In fact, the public service workers had before the previous government took possession of 25 working days of annual holidays. The PSD/CDS government, sitting down, picked up the 25 days for 22 vacation days.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u179	Come on, five days' rest, two days' work!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u180	The PSD/CDS government, in such an offensive against whom it works, against labour rights and, in particular, against public administration workers, has disappeared three days of vacation per year to public service workers. Now, in view of this picture, the Greens Ecological Party also believes that the time has come to repair this injustice...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u181	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u182	... imposed by the PSD and CDS and restore the public service holiday regime that was in force before the unfortunate intervention of the previous government, the PSD government / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u183	How many days do public service workers work?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u184	Can Hélder Amaral just say these obscenities on the subject? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u185	That is, rest the 25 days of vacation until the worker reaches 39 years of age; rest the 26 days of vacation until the worker reaches 49 years of age; rest the 27 days of vacation until the worker reaches 59 years of age; and finally rest the 28 days of vacation from 59 years of age. We therefore accompany the authors of the legislative initiatives that seek to correct this injustice imposed by the previous government on civil servants. We also follow the legislative initiatives aimed at establishing the right to 25 days of annual holidays for all employees in the private sector. A right that, in our perspective, cannot be subject to conditions, nor can it depend on factors such as attendance. On the other hand, the formula in force on holidays has, and continues to potentiate, real abuses, which allow workers to reduce the number of holidays due to the workers' lack of work, for example, because they have participated in the funeral of a family member or because they have exercised their labour and trade union rights. Now, this has a name, called « abuse», and this abuse cannot continue to have legal consecration. The Greens therefore consider that the right to a holiday cannot be subject to conditions such as attendance. Holidays are a right of constitutional importance, they are a right of those who work and so must continue to be. To guarantee 25 days of annual holidays to all workers, whether in the public sector or in the private sector, is a moral imperative that should be enshrined in the labour laws, as well as a way of valuing work and workers, an indispensable condition for true development and for the justice and social progress of our country. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u186	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Rui Riso.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is, in principle, in accordance with all that has been said here for the holidays. We are surprised that Mr. António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS, a party that says so concerned about the family,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u188	But it's with your family, it's not with other people's family!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u189	... you think the holidays are excessive,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] ... being sure that it is also our opinion, and my personal conviction, that vacations, in addition to the rest and rest that must be maintained, also serve—and there are very important—for the strengthening of family ties... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u190	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u191	... and, above all, to strengthen the feeling of belonging of workers,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] ... as part of a group, more or less vast, in which they are integrated. That is, the worker, during his vacation period, will certainly do what he wants and very well understood, and this will enable him to strengthen his sense of belonging to the family, the community and everything else that involves him. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Vania Dias da Silva.]] You've come to the fore, Your Honor! Therefore, the principle is good, there is good vacation, there is the principle of not paying attention, but above all there is a duty not to call. This is because you cannot put here just the right not to attend and not to be disturbed by the employer in the rest time, there is also a duty not to call here. And all this counts for rest periods, everything counts for work periods if you want, because one naturally invalidates the other. The debate we are having today has two different focuss; that is, if, in general, we want to increase an annual holiday period for the minimum duration of 25 working days, the truth is that there are two groups of initiatives that are quite different. The Socialist Party, as you know... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Take it easy, sir! Take it easy! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Take it easy, sir! The Socialist Party, as it is known, defends social dialogue in any situation. So, so much... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] In any situation, both yesterday and today, in what has been discussed in relation to social dialogue, when it is to be removed, there are parties which, while not respecting, do not lead to social dialogue to take off, take here, but want to build there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I remember, if I may, that, indeed, the cut-off of holiday days was made in this House and that today, it refers to social consultation the restitution of that right, which was here alibi. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u192	Therefore, it is important to divide these diplomas into two groups, because one is effectively to discuss in social consultation, tripartitely, and the other depends, effectively, on the negotiation between trade unions and government, with regard to workers in public functions, because, as you know, they have, effectively, different principles. As for the 25 days of vacation, yes, we've already said yes. The multiplicity of diplomas present here today, for our analysis, equalizes the same point of view in various ways or, better, the same reason for various points of view and is our understanding, as it has always been, that the issues of social consultation should be discussed in social consultation and that the issues of workers in public office should be discussed in the public service. Finally, I should like to remind you that there are already many workers who have 25 days of vacation created in an automatic way, through their collective bargaining, freely established between the parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u193	Sure! That sounds good to me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u194	And, therefore, what is understood to be important is to extend exactly this collective negotiation and to ensure that, being certain that the Socialist Party values collective bargaining, this negotiation allows more workers to be covered by 25 days of holiday in the context of collective bargaining—and not by,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u195	Sounds good to me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u196	... finally, a decision by this House — from which the days they had been assigned should never have been taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u197	So you're going to vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u198	Fuck you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u199	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed today in this House a number of initiatives, presented by the Parliamentary Groups of the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN, which aim, in sum, to amend the Labour Code and the labour law in public functions, precisely as regards workers' holidays. A previous note on this subject: after hearing the Socialist Party Member, we are in a certain way aware that there is a 'no' here. The Socialist Party agrees with the principle, but will vote against this measure. I must remember, first of all, that the Socialist Party, of which the current Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, voted in favour of the reduction to 22 days of holiday, then the elimination of the 3 days of holiday in 2012. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't know how to organize. The Socialist Party goes tow what its coalition partners want, and they're all worried about populism,... [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] ...are all worried to see who gives the most to whom. But this is it, sirs. Members, who are concerned, is this lack of strategy, this populism, which does not serve the national interests, nor the interests of the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u201	It is the replacement of national rights!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u202	... and can lead us to a situation that, unfortunately, we already know and with which we suffer a lot. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on this subject, we are going to have a serious, rigorous debate and, above all, a responsible debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u203	You still have 3 minutes to do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u204	Look at the PSD showing up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u205	There are two fundamental reasons why we should think about this. First reason: why were the changes made to the Labour Code in 2012? Was it because there was a desire to harm the workers? [[There was!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u206	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u207	There was!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u208	It was not a reform made against anyone. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, listen and you'll have a chance to talk in the end. It was a reform made, of course, because internal commitments and international commitments were made...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u209	There's no more troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u210	...and it was a reform, all of it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u211	When you were in the government that sent in Portugal, it was Germany!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u212	... so that our businesses and our economy are effectively sustainable, because without competitive companies, without a competitive economy, there are no jobs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u213	There's another very important aspect to consider, ladies and gentlemen. Members : do not ignore what is said in the OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), a very recent report which was presented last week and which clearly states that reforms to labour legislation were in the right direction. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] It is also said in the report that Portugal has achieved significant improvements in employment and unemployment rates, better than expected. I repeat, better than expected. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mrs. Members, I call on you to focus on essential issues, to support public employment support policies, to support public policies to support the economy, to increase the economy, to care about the national interest...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u214	The national interest is also the interest of the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u215	...and put aside, that they abandon, once and for all, this populism that becomes very dangerous. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u216	For a second speech, Mr Rui Riso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Use of the word only to provide two or three clarifications, which I think I have not been able to transmit. With regard to social consultation, it is to resolve in social consultation; with regard to public functions, of course, it is for negotiation between the government and trade unions, as I think it should always have been that way, and it was not. I just asked for the floor to give these two clarifications. I believe that there is no doubt about this, either as regards the basic principle and what we defend as regards holiday days, or how they should be achieved, especially through collective bargaining and, in the case of the private sector, first, through social consultation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u218	I now give the floor to Mr António Carlos Monteiro for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Rui Riso could have been quite clear. After all, will you vote in favour, against or abstain? If you are once again trying to circumvent the issue by saying that you agree on the principle but that you will abstain, that the Socialist Party will abstain, because you are counting on the votes against the PSD and the CDS to make these proposals impossible, it is another example of the kind of maneuvers that the Socialist Party is getting used to. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u220	Why doesn't the CDS vote in favour?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u221	It is said that we agree on the principle but that there must be social consultation means that we do not agree that this proposal is moving forward in the Assembly of the Republic without going to social consultation. Therefore, Mr President, be consistent and vote against. Or are you always counting on the PSD and the CDS to solve the problem of your bench not able to put in order what is this plural majority, in which you speak, speak, but can't agree at all? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u222	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u223	Mr President, I have just asked for the floor, following the speech of Mr Rui Riso of the Socialist Party, to say the following: he said here that he was going to vote against because he was going to refer to social dialogue. I reiterate again what was said yesterday in this plenary: the stable majority with which Mr Prime Minister presented himself in the Assembly of the Republic to govern does not exist. Once again it is proven that there is no such majority. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u224	Now they've learned this one, they say the same thing every day!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u225	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor to intervene again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important to make two points of order in this debate. First of all, the withdrawal of holiday days was a decision of the Assembly of the Republic, the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u227	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u228	Was it made by the PS, or have you forgotten?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u229	Therefore, the decision of the replacement of holiday days lies with the Assembly of the Republic. It is not by chance that whenever we hear the discussion of the PSD and the CDS on social consultation it seems that they almost want to abdicate the period of interventions they have to do in the Plenary, leaving the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) and the CAP ( Confederation of farmers of Portugal ) to speak for the CDS and the PSD. This is because it is very obvious: everything that means replacement of rights to workers cannot count on the PSD and the CDS because they were responsible for their theft. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u230	So whoever stole rights won't restore rights and the decision is this. Even because, sirs. Members, during the discussion of the Labour Code, all the representative structures of workers spoke against the withdrawal of working days, because this constitutes an attack on the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u231	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u232	Secondly, social consultation is what is about social consultation; the Assembly of the Republic is what is about the Assembly of the Republic. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] Mr Rui Riso, what he told us here makes it increasingly evident what the CFP says about the inadequacy of PS measures in the current correlation of forces, because we could take advantage of all the opportunities that exist to restore rights and the PS does not want to take advantage of all these opportunities. Therefore, the CFP will continue here, because this is the commitment we have, firstly, to the workers, the people and the country: to take advantage of all the opportunities in this House of the Republic to restore rights and income. This is the PCP's commitment and it's for him that we're going to hit. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u233	For an intervention, in the remaining time, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u234	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, I would remind you that you will certainly forget that the question of holidays resulted from a social agreement concluded in 2012, just a few months from the previous government has begun functions. It wasn't for the PSD and the CDS if they remembered to take the days off. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Therefore, Mrs Deputy, stop demagogy, populism and lack of responsibility. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u235	Social consultation does not approve laws!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u236	Mrs. Members, although there are still time available, there are no registrations for...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u237	It's all said! They don't want to, they don't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u238	For one last intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we discuss holiday days, we are talking about myths and truths regarding productivity. As for myths regarding productivity, we had the action of the PSD and the CDS, which entered into the discourse that we live above our possibilities and in the speech of who in Europe meant that Portugal was a country of lazy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u240	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u241	As a result, wages decreased, holidays decreased, public services decreased, holidays decreased, because the problem of productivity in Portugal was being a country of lazy people. But despite this, although we have been below the OECD average on holiday days, under the OECD average certainly in wages and only above the OECD average in working hours per year, no productivity gain has ever been proven in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u243	So, and in short, withdrawing vacation days always meant one thing: free work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u244	Free work, hours, free work days, because... [[Yeah, that's what they want!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u245	...there is less rest for the same wage, more work for the same wage. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u246	That's the goal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u247	That is why, when we talk on vacation days, we need to remember a second aspect: the right of workers to rest. To talk about holidays is not just, as the right one wants, to talk about productivity, it is also to talk about workers' right at the right time, their right to time for their family, at the time of their freedom, to say that their life is not the boss, that not all the time available is the boss, who also needs time for you to rest. Now, to those here who claim to be Christian-democracy and social-democracy—there have been currents that, in times past, have agreed to these labor rights to overcome the savagery of the bosses— today, the mask has fallen to them. The mask fell to the PSD, but also dropped the mask to the CDS. The mask fell to the CDS, and by the intervention of Mr. António Carlos Monteiro, we realized that, by the CDS, workers in Portugal would have the right to take off on Sunday and it was already a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u248	Don't be demagogic!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u249	The PSD mask fell, which, as you also realized, tried to come here saying that it was not the PSD you wanted, that it had been forced. If you've been obliged, you've got a good excuse now to go back. But if in this debate the masks of those who defend the workers and those who defend free work for the bosses have fallen, it is also true that they have dropped their apologies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u250	He's talking to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u251	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u252	I'm done now, Mr. President. There is no longer any troika to impose any labour legislation in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] on the contrary, what we have today is a majority in Parliament that allows the replacement of labour rights, or should allow that replacement. So, without an apology, if it was here that labor rights were removed, this is where they should be returned,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u253	...this is where they must be restored. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u254	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is from the countries of the European Union where more hours are worked and where less is received for each hour of work, and that is yet another thing, Mr President. Members, it is from the countries of the European Union where the less paid workers have to have a quality holiday.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u256	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u257	Therefore, the proposal we make for the recovery of rights and income is an essential proposal. Subjecting labour matters to social consultation, Mrs. Members of the PS, PSD and CDS, are to give a veto to employers'confederations on workers'rights, and this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u258	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u259	On the other hand, the amendments to the Labour Code are subject to a period of public discussion precisely for this purpose, to ensure the pronunciation of those, employers and workers, who want to pronounce on the scope of these measures, and that is why it is not surprising that employers are constantly against the recovery of labour rights and that workers are defending these same rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u260	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u261	Another question we wanted to raise here is the following: the CFP believes that every opportunity to restore rights and income must be taken advantage of, and this is an ever-standing commitment from the CFP. So today we have the opportunity to rest 25 days of vacation for all workers, in the public and private sectors. If that doesn't happen, it's not because social consultation doesn't want it, it's because PS, PSD and CDS don't want it. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] [[It was the PS!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u262	Mrs. Gentlemen, have you not heard well? I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't shout, you can hear me. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] If the 25 days of vacation are not restored, it's because PS, PSD and CDS don't want to,... [[Talk to the PS!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u263	... and one thing is very clear: the contribution of the CFP is by the action of the CFP and it is by the fairness of the struggle of the workers that this discussion will have to continue. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-26.u264	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. It remains to be announced that the next plenary meeting is tomorrow, Friday, which will have the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister on the agenda. The next item is the agenda, with no time allocated for discussion, the motions for resolutions Nos 35/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and Montenegro to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters signed in Lisbon on 12 July 2016, 36 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol, signed on 14 January 1971, amending the Convention between Portugal and France to Avoid Double Taxation and Establish Rules of Mutual Administrative Assistance in Income Tax Matters, signed on 25 August 2016, 38 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement in the Field of Defence between the Portuguese Republic and the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, signed in Nouakchott, on 21 October 2010, 39 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Ibero-American Cinematographic Integration Convention adopted in Caracas on 11 November 1989, 40 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to the Ibero-American Cinematographic Integration Convention adopted in Córdoba, Kingdom of Spain, on 28 November 2007, 41 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Latin American Agreement on Cinematographic Co-production adopted in Caracas on 11 November 1989 and 42 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to the Latin American Cinematic Co-production Agreement signed in Bogotá on 14 July 2006. At the end of the sitting, the vote will be taken on the Rules of Procedure. Good afternoon to all. I declare the work closed. [[It was 17 hours and 3 minutes.]]
