ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, officers and officers. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Members, let us begin our work with the conclusion of the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein.o 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u2	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs Deputies and others. Members: The plenary of the Assembly of the Republic began yesterday the debate on the Government's proposals for the Great Options of the Plan and for the State Budget for 2018. Public policies developed through these two documents favour people, public services and the development of the national economy. These are the objectives of the Government for the Country, based on the rigor of public accounts. I would therefore like to stress that the State Budget for 2018 is a Budget for Portugal and for Portuguese. Take your current and future needs into account. The Government is well aware of the circumstantialisms Portugal faces. This is translated into the proposal that we present to this House. It is not a blind exercise, it is an exercise that results from meticulous work and clear and balanced political options. The policies we have developed since the beginning of this legislature — which are nothing more than the implementation of the Government Programme that this House has supported — are based on the realistic macroeconomic and budgetary scenario that we have presented for the Government Programme. I can only point out that for the first time, a party and a government have presented themselves with a programme accompanied by a macroeconomic scenario. The rigor in the public accounts is not a mere coward for this government, it has translated into rigorous, technically supported numbers. We started functions less than two years ago, but no one doubt that we have a better country. Today we have a country that offers a future to many more Portuguese. The economy has grown, increased the wealth we create every year. The labour market is stronger and job creation, more than a promise, is a reality today. The financial system is stabilized, we did not take refuge in successive rejections of business plans. We contributed, yes, to solve one after another, the problems the financial system faced. And they were many and of great size. All of this has been done by ensuring the rigor of public accounts and a standard of sustainable and inclusive economic growth. The Portuguese know that they can count on the Government and the parliamentary majority to support it to continue on this path to the end of the Legislature — without fear of instability, no obstacles, no unconstitutional budgets, no cuts in wages and pensions and no enormous increases in taxes. Yeah, we did a lot different. After all, it was possible. The impoverishment that the right felt virtuous when he was in the government was not a fatality, was a policy option that the reality was in charge of proving deeply wrong. In September, Portugal registered the lowest unemployment rate since 2004 : 8, 6 %. The lowest unemployment rate for the last 13 years in September. The scourge of unemployment is a reality that is becoming less and less Portuguese. The number of unemployed today is more than 20 % below one year ago ; the highest unemployment rate has always fallen since there are monthly unemployment statistics in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was worth making a difference, because we did better. Since September 2015, while reducing the number of unemployed by 191,000, 237 000 new jobs have been created. The active population then grew again. in recent months, we have seen the greatest job creation since there are monthly employment statistics. Employment has grown by more than 3% in the last year. In January 2013 Portugal recorded minimum job creation values and unemployment ceilings. Today we have over 464 000 jobs and less 485 000 unemployed. These numbers well demonstrate the changes that have occurred in our economy and the importance they have had for the lives of so many Portuguese people. Portugal was a country from which those who were of working age emigrated, also by the suggestion of the previous government, was a country without a future. Today, young Portuguese people can choose to live in their country. They are also increasingly those who, not being Portuguese, choose to work and live in Portugal. The policies we have adopted have given Portugal a new future. Portugal is worth it. Portugal was once again a choice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u4	Therefore, in a prudent way, we plan for 2018 a continuation of improved conditions in the labour market, with employment growth of almost 1 % and a reduction in unemployment rate to around 8 %. Labour productivity is expected to increase by more than 1 % and wages by about 2 %. This development allows for continued improvement of the conditions of competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, with a positive reflection — I would say very positive — in exports. The Portuguese economy is more robust, more resilient to market cycles. But also more just, because more Portuguese benefit from the wealth created in the country. The recovery of the economy is now a reality. After 14 consecutive trimesters of growth, exports and investment accelerate and grow more than 10 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Savings increase the minimums achieved in the course of the colossal increase in taxes and the maximums of unemployment and emigration. Families invest more in their children's education. There are more young people attending higher education. Youth emigration has been reduced. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a Budget that projects a country with a future, far from voices of agoiro that, fortunately, have never proved to be right, and that is close to each of the Portuguese who participate in this Portugal of hope. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2018, after the success of the fiscal policy of the last two years, we will continue the downward trajectory of public debt. The results achieved enabled the country's confidence and credibility to be strengthened. The 2016 budget result, the exit of the excessive deficit procedure and the improvement of the rating of the Republic determined an unprecedented reduction in the financing costs of the Portuguese economy. The 10-year debt interest rate increased from 4, 3 % in March 2017 to 2, 1 % at the beginning of this week. For this journey they contributed to the strong results achieved by the country, including economic growth, stable job creation and the fulfilment of the budgetary objectives. We believe that the debt ratio on GDP ( gross domestic product) is 126 % at the end of 2017 ; almost 4 percentage points less than in 2016. This trajectory will be the biggest reduction in the last 19 years! By 2018, the downward trajectory will be maintained until 123, 5 % of GDP at the end of the year. In 2018, interest savings with early depreciation during the current year are estimated at around 300 million euros. The credibility has been gained with the effort of all — with the government's stabilization policies and with the dedication of companies and workers, workers of increasing the competitiveness of our economy. This route may be called into question. What has cost so much to conquer can be lost more quickly than it has led to. We must all maintain the same sense of responsibility that brought us here. The State budget follows precisely that line. It is a document for the future of Portugal and Portuguese. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you know, the government favours fiscal stability. But at the same time, we do what must be done for the benefit of Portuguese families and companies. in the context of fiscal stability, the 2018 budget proposal does not change VAT or IRC rates, maintaining predictability for businesses and consumers. in the framework of the options, takes particular importance the option for tax relief for all Portuguese families who pay IRS, creating more distributive justice, either by changing the steps, or by eliminating the total surcharge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All Portuguese will pay less IRS per euro than they earn in 2018. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, IRS-based tax protection covers, as it could only be, the lowest incomes. It is in this framework that we propose the change in the formula for determining the minimum of existence — i.e. the net value of tax with which at least the taxpayer is at the end of the application of tax rules — through its indexation to the value of the indexer of social support (IAS) and its update, already in 2018, to €8980,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u6	... as well as by extending its application to self-employed persons, who so far did not benefit from this guarantee, which was an exclusive pensioner and worker on behalf of others. These amendments will potentially cover 1, 6 million aggregates and benefit Portuguese families by around 385 million euros. Also as a strengthening of protection for self-employed persons, the State Budget for 2018 guarantees, like what already happens to dependent workers and pensioners, that their income cannot be paid in full. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State budget for 2018 is the third budget submitted by the XXI Government. There was never a need for additional measures...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u7	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u8	... and much less amending budgets that have become a rule, which were so a reflection of the lack of budgetary rigour of the austere palates. [[P.S.'s applause.]] over these two years our plan B has always been to implement plan A. It is with this plan that we have reached today. We have fulfilled our commitments. Portugal today is respected abroad. Yesterday in Buenos Aires, where the plenary of the International Financial Action Group is meeting — the international body responsible for the assessment of countries in the field of combating fraud, money laundering and financing of terrorist activities — Portugal was assessed with the highest rating. In other words, Portugal is one of the three countries of Europe, together with the United States, to deserve this classification. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This maximum note recognizes the work we have done in the transparency of economic and financial activities, qualifying Portugal as a country where it is safe to invest and where concern about the origin of the funds invested is taken very seriously. This is of utmost importance for the credibility of our financial system. The pursuit of these objectives is achieved only by a more motivated public administration—with careers that encourage an excellent performance of public service workers, with a collaborative vision in which everyone can participate in their development, without stigma, with a sense of belonging. The budget we are presenting is thus a budget of rigour. No one would understand if it wasn't. The future is built on the reduction of indebtedness, with quality investment and built-in technical progress, but also on improving public services, whether health, education or transport. The State Budget for 2018 is a future budget for the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u9	Mr Minister, 16 were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. [[Pause.]] I am informed that the Minister will answer the first six Members individually. Members and the rest will be in groups of five. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Minister for Finance, you and your policy personify, as few people, that motto of the famous economist who said that in the long term we are all dead. however, this rule has an amendment: for you, in the medium term, we are all dead or, better yet, there is no tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u11	Frankly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u12	As there is no tomorrow, what matters is the present, which is simply the good publicity of some measures and withdrawing immediate support from the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u14	That is why, Minister, this budget does not have a single measure for the economy, businesses, wealth creation. And, Mr Minister, who says it is not me, it is not just the PSD bench;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u15	It's also CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u16	... all business confederations repeat it. The CIP ( Confederation of Enterprises of Portugal ), the Confederation of Industry, says that this budget disappoints companies and knows little about it ; the Confederation of Trade and Services of Portugal ( CCP ), trade confederation, says that it is disappointed with the Budget because it is incipient in relation to business matters ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u17	What about yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u18	... the Confederation of the Services of Portugal ( CSP ), Confederation of the Services, says that this Budget does not make budgetary consolidation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u19	This is not the Corporate Chamber, it is the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u20	... or also the Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ( CAP ), Confederation of Farmers, says that it is disappointed and that the Budget does not have tax relief measures for companies. In addition, we know how this Budget treats self-employed workers at the IRS (tax on income of natural persons ), i.e. if there are still some.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u22	Thus, neither companies nor independent workers see any measures to support their activity, to support the growth of the economy, to support the growth of wealth. This is the master line of your budget, Minister! The Minister can tell us, as I said in the past, that his great concern was simply to safeguard the financial system, but I also reply: the only thing that was palpable, visible, of size was the injection of billions of euros in the General Deposit Box to cover up the craps made by the socialist government of Eng.o Socrates and Dr. Armando Vara.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u23	Well remembered! [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u24	The only thing they've done so far was cover up the crap socialists did in the General Deposit Box! [[PSD applause.]] Moreover: if that were true, Mr Minister, it was not true what the Banco de Portugal tells us. The Banco de Portugal indicates that credit to companies has fallen from 2015 to September 2017, in particular credit to exporting companies. So you have not even been able to do this to help the economy and businesses, Minister. [[PSD applause.]] Then I can ask you something else. I know what the answer is, but I'm not going to read in your lips. This budget brings a great increase in indirect taxes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u25	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u26	... compensating for the fall of certain rules of direct taxation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u27	Explain that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u28	Mr. Minister will tell us that it is not true, that the projections do not indicate this, to which I answer that last year the Minister guaranteed the same and today what the Budget shows, what the Government itself recognizes is that in 2017 the tax burden has increased compared to 2016. So if you've been lying about last year, let me not believe what you're telling us today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u29	That's why we're going to have indirect taxes increasing, paid by everyone...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u30	Mr President, I ask you to respect what is combined, which is 4 minutes to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u31	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, indirect taxes are going to increase. That is, taxes on fuel, taxes on vehicles, taxes on generalised consumption, taxes on consumer credit. All these taxes increase...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u32	All of them? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u33	...for those who, perhaps, can see the IRS decrease but also for those who have less income, who do not pay IRS and who see their taxes aggravated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u34	This is your social conscience, Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u35	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u36	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, I am afraid that you have mentioned a famous economist in an inappropriate way. But we're not going into this discussion. I would just like to quote and list the measures which in the Government Programme have translated into this State Budget, as they have already done in 2016 and 2017 — I refer to the Capitalisation Programme. The Capitalisation Programme is a programme which contains numerous measures to support the financing and capitalisation of companies. We launched very varied lines of this Program in 2017 and are expected to be three more in 2018 : the Capitalize Line, the Capitalize Line Export and the Capitalize Line Mid Cap. They are forms of direct and effective support for companies in need of funding, in a context in which nobody ignores the Portuguese economy still needs to de-salapvange in view of the excessive indebtedness it has experienced in the past, and this is reflected in some of the indicators that you cited. It is true that credit in Portugal has to be given more conscientiously, more effectively, to support the real good projects that can, yes, leverage in investment the growth of the Portuguese economy, and that today, the financial system, and also the General Deposit Box, is much more capable of doing, because what this government has done was something that the previous failed to achieve, which was capitalize the Box to put it to the service of the economy and of the Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are more tax measures to support companies, there are measures that extend to all creditors the tax benefit to the conversion of credit into capital, which is already granted to the supply of partners this year, there are measures that allocate tax credits to partners, natural persons, who make cash inflows into companies that have lost more than half of the capital. There are no decapitalised companies that can serve the Portuguese economy and, in this respect, the Capitalisation Programme directs them a very large number of measures. I would like to point out that the effort to reduce the tax burden occurs again in 2018, as also happened in 2017,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u37	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u38	... because there was a reduction in tax rates. What you are referring to is the variation in tax revenue, in particular in the tax revenue of IRC (tax on public persons),...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u39	The tax burden!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u40	... where in 2017 there are very varied sources of extraordinary revenue, which is not repeatable in 2018 and which justifies the extraordinary good performance of tax revenue in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u41	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u42	We are not mistaken, this budget does not illude the Portuguese: the increase in tax revenue in 2017 has very varied components that are not repeatable in the future and we cannot support budget implementation in these non-repetitible revenues. This is our responsibility for this Budget, because, it is true, Mr, the tax burden measured in the number of euros that each Portuguese pays for each euro it receives has decreased in 2016, has decreased in 2017 and will fall again in 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u43	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u44	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, Minister for Finance, the success of public policies is essentially measured by its results. From the very beginning, this government has, from the outset, seen itself in the continuance of adopting numerous public policies that revitalize the dying Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u45	Moribund? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u46	From that point on, the Capitalisation Programme has contributed to the fact that today we have the economy as we have it, that is to say, to rise and significantly contribute to Portuguese success. In fact, the Capitalisation Programme has 84 measures and 71 of these measures are under way or under way. Therefore, the success of this Capitalization Program is evident: it financed 856 million in 12,516 operations, reaching 12,413 companies. If this does not mean the success of a public policy, what does it mean? This government has waged in business restructuring. It was necessary to introduce measures so that our companies could modernise themselves; it applied measures at the level of taxation so that they could be able to meet their obligations without being drowned in this compliance; at the level of innovation, it was affixed to entrepreneurship, creating numerous measures for technology-based enterprises, the so-called'start up'; it was affixed to the creation of a programme to help reindustrialize the country, industry 4.0; and it was affixed to the transfer of knowledge of science and the university environment to businesses. These public policies had results. We must not forget — indeed, yesterday Mr Prime Minister has already recalled — that, when this government took office, only EUR 4 million from Portugal 2020 had arrived at companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u47	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u48	I repeat, 4 million. And, in fact, the companies themselves only arrived at one: a restaurant. [[PSD protests.]] I would like to remind you that this government has been in a position to implement Plan 100, so that in its first 100 days EUR 100 million would reach the companies, and that goal has been overcome. They arrived at companies in the first 100 days of government, EUR 116 million. Then, driven by ambition, the government implemented the 450 plan, providing that by the end of 2016, EUR 450 million could be reached and this target was again exceeded, reached EUR 477 million. More recently, the 1000 plan was implemented, which provided that, by the end of 2017, EUR 1000 million could reach companies. This goal has already been reviewed at a high level, because only until the end of August have reached EUR 957 million. And when the right opposition does not tire of saying, in theory up to a bit eccentric, that this government is not business friends, it does not help the economy, which does not push its real function, the results are in sight.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u49	Mr President, I ask you to also respect your 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u50	This government is historic, because the growth rate of GDP has increased as never before,... [[Protests by PSD Member Inês Domigos.]] ... increased investment in volume as never increased, increased exports of goods and services, as never increased. This government is historic not only for its support base,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u52	...but above all, for the success achieved in public policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u53	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u54	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, the success of a government's policy is measured in the short term by the results it presents, and that is what we are also doing here today. The truth is that Portuguese companies, today, are more robust, are more resilient, are more able to meet the challenges that economic cycles pose to them. This is because of the policies that this Government has adopted in order to strengthen the capitalisation and financing of these companies' own capital. This is the way we can have in an economy which, as I said recently, continues in a process of desalavancing and reducing its indebtedness. The truth is that the success of this economy is measured by the huge share gain in the export market that Portuguese companies recorded in 2017. The assessment we have at the moment is that this quota gain is 4 percentage points. This means that Portuguese exports are growing 4 percentage points above external demand to the Portuguese economy, that is, they are gaining market where other companies from other countries also compete. And this is not done with low wages, not with low qualifications and much less inviting the most qualified young people to leave the country and not to support the future of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also done with policies that strengthen the sustainability of social security and the reduction of public debt. in the State Budget for 2018, there is a first step towards the transfer of zero comma percentage points from the IRC rate to the Social Security Stabilisation Fund in order to strengthen, in time, the sustainability of social security. It is with this confidence, with additional confidence in the Government, in the Assembly of the Republic, in the regular functioning of the institutions in Portugal, that more investors come and that Portuguese believe in the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u55	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Mariana Mortágua has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Finance, we have in recent times had very hard but also very frontal discussions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u57	Hard? Oh, my God! Where? Oh, my God! Only if it's private!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u58	... not only on budgetary policies, but also on the implementation of these policies. There are points in this debate where we agree, and there are points where we certainly disagree. I begin with the points where we agree. When in 2013 the PSD/CDS government budgeted 400 million euros for health but then executed less than 1000 million, that was a cut, and we agree. When, in the four years of right-wing government, the value actually spent on education was reduced by EUR 400 million, that was a cut, and we agree. We also agree that over the past two years, the health budget has risen to 846 million — executed and already free of seizures. That was a budgetary reinforcement, and we agree. We also agree that the education budget for the last two years has risen as much as what was cut in four years on the right. So there was a budgetary boost in education, and we agree. But, by passing the points we agree on, we also have differences,....
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u59	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u60	... to begin with the goals of the deficit that the government has chosen and how this is or is not a priority in relation to the other priorities of the country. But we have another difference, perhaps more deeply, which has to do with how we view the nature of this State budget and the funds and targets in it. in the context of a minority government, which is made possible by a majority of parliaments with different parties that support it, the money in the budget programmes of health, education, science, culture, the economy, finally, the budget funds are not maximum commitments of expenditure, they are political commitments on public investment. For this reason, the targets set in the Budgets we approve for the deficit are not indicative targets, they are minimum political commitments that cannot be met. That is why, Mr Minister, no one understands that every year the deficit that is voted upon in the Assembly of the Republic by all the parties that make up the majority of parliament always goes beyond the goal set here and that every year, despite the deficit going beyond the goal, there are no money left to run in public services—the equipment that public services need and do not have a permit for expenditure; it is the staff that needs to be replaced and not replaced; it is the capital formation of the State which has been very short of what had been budgeted last year. Captives are not all the problem we have in the lack of execution of expenditure, but they are a very important problem and they are also a divergence we have. We recognize, of course, that captivating is an instrument of budgetary management, but it is true that it is an instrument that is not transparent—and it is not from now on, it has always been—and it is also true that it has been very high in recent times. The Block has been struck by three amendments to the implementation of the budgetary policy. Firstly, I am going to beat us so that there is a scrupulously fulfillment of the implementation of the budget appropriations which are approved here and this results in a scrupulously fulfillment of the deficit margins, which means 'zero' margins of deficit. The approved deficit must be the deficit presented at the end of the year, without any margin. Secondly, we want transparency in captivating. We note the introduction of a transparency clause in the State budget law, we want to go further in the specialty and we will do so. But we also want a substantial reduction in the level of captivating not only in absolute value but as a percentage of expenditure. We will be presenting measures on health in the special issue, but we want Mr Minister's political commitment to these three proposals or requirements of the Left Block as regards the levels of budgetary implementation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u61	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u62	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, there are several developments in this political cycle in Portugal and we have all shared them, I believe, in what they have brought about in a positive way. One of the positive developments that this political cycle has brought about is that Portugal today is seen as fulfilling its commitments. The Government is fulfilling its first-hand commitments made internally and in this Parliament on budgetary matters. This is how we see the 2016 budget implementation and what we have to present in the 2017 budget implementation. We cannot make permanent use of what is temporary revenue or, even worse, non-concrete revenue. What we did in 2016 was meet the deficit target of 2, 2 % that we presented in this House in February of this year. What happened at the end of the year was that the extraordinary revenue of PERES ( Special Programme for the Reduction of State Debt ), which is an extraordinary revenue, was used to amortize Portuguese public debt. It was therefore used, Mrs Deputy, to bet on the future of the Portuguese economy. It is true that we have come to set targets for the deficit that are compatible with this debt reduction trajectory, but that have brought an extraordinary profit very, very relevant to the Portuguese, to the taxpayers and certainly to the budget implementation. I would like to remind you that between the Stability Programme and the State Budget exercise for 2018, the forecast of interest expenditure in 2017 was revised down by EUR 350 million and in 2018 is EUR 800 million. This has been achieved through the strict budgetary implementation and the fulfilment of the objectives that we all have and has allowed for the implementation of the budget in each of these years to be released these very high amounts that I have just mentioned. Although it may not seem, we agree with the need for transparency in the children, for strict implementation of the budget associated with the takeovers. That is why the norm we introduced into the State Budget for Children Act creates a margin of growth of spending on the purchase of goods and services up to 2 % compared to the previous implementation, which has been the criterion used for defining children. But I can also point out that in 2018 what results from the application of this rule in the State budget is a very significant reduction in the value of children. The children who are currently expected in the Portuguese budgetary system for 2018, as a result of the State budget law, are EUR 1156 million, compared with the same calculation for 2017, EUR 1423 million. There is certainly also an increased transparency commitment through the regular report on the implementation of these children over the coming year. The compromise, in fact, yesterday already taken by the Prime Minister, is that, in the context of a decree-law on budgetary implementation ( DLEO), some additional areas of health—it is necessary to clarify that the National Health Service ( SNS) is free of children—they are not subject to arrests either. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u63	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u64	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, Minister of Finance, the CDS has made its criticisms in this debate of a budget from which it disagrees and presents, even before the presentation of the Budget, the alternative way in which it defends. For this debate to be productive, we have sought answers to some questions which, for us, are essential in this budget. It is precisely on these issues that I would like to ask you about, in particular, three in particular: captivating, the question of vocational training and the question of self-employed people. On captivations, what is objective is the opinion of UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) of analysis to this Budget. The year 2017 was the year in which the initial value of the captives reached the maximum of always: EUR 1881 million. It was the year in which the highest percentage of expenditure was initially captivated: 2, 9%. It was also the year in which, until August, it is true, there was less disenactment than what was captured: 37, 7%. But already 2016 had only 46% of the initial funds disenchanted, which was only parallel in 2010, also with a Socialist Party Government. What this tells us is that what is being done with the captivating has no historical parallel. What is being done with the captivating is to transform what theoretically is an instrument of management into a tool of cutting and lack of transparency.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u66	Therefore, Minister, we need to be very clear in a budgetary debate. This is the third budget of this government. in the two previous budgets, the captivations were used for a different purpose from the one with which they were used in the past. You say that it is not and, so far from it, it is necessary to answer clear questions: are you available for the level of captivating of this budget, that UTAO has already said that at least it is equal to what happened in the previous budget, to levels identical to those that existed at a much more complex time, when it governed the PSD and the CDS, when we had the troika and fewer captivations? Are they available to have a maximum of captivations identical to the one that existed in the time of the troika? Are they available not to do what they did last year and which never happened, which was added to the budget implementation decree more captivating than those which Parliament approves? In other words, in addition to what you approved in Parliament, which is more than ever approved, is the Minister available to assume the commitment not to add captives to the decree of implementation? Finally, is it available to approve the CDS proposals for greater transparency: monthly report, ministry to ministry, programme to programme, body to body, so that over the year we can examine the seizures? Mr Minister continues to laugh, but these are not questions that justify any kind of laughter. They are concrete questions that deserve concrete answers. If you can answer, for once seriously, we thank you. On the question of vocational training, and given the concrete example of the metallurgical and metallurgical industry, a year ago there was a need for 5000 to 10 000 qualified jobs. This industry needed these skilled workers. Today, it needs more than 20 000 because, for one year, the vocational training centre in this sector has not opened new courses. And you know why? Because the part of the State to share this vocational training was captivated. In other words, what is fundamental to economic growth, which is qualified training, in a sector that has orders but cannot accept them because it has no skilled labour, is stagnant, because the government has captured its contribution component for this training. That is why it is essential to know whether or not they are going to end the captives in vocational training so that the industry, which is currently being held by the government, can accept the orders it has and contribute even more to economic growth. Finally, on self-employed people, it is not enough to put in the newspapers that are going back, it is necessary to know what that is.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u67	I ask you to conclude, Mr, since you have already exceeded the four minutes you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u68	I shall conclude, Mr President. You have introduced an amendment which does not merit consensus. The withdrawal can only be one, of two: go back and delete the proposal or allow an independent worker to choose a regime or another. If so, what they are altering corrects; if it is not so, it does not correct, it only deceives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u69	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u70	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, do not take my reactions as a qualifier. I was just trying to figure out if you were really convinced of what you were telling me. [[PS laughter.]] Mr President, you do not want to compare with the Troika period. I'm not going to make any comparison to that period. You know why? For at this time the goals that are set are fulfilled; for at this time there is no unconstitutionality in the budgets that we present;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because at this time we are not presenting any amending budget; and because at this time there are no budgetary spills. It is another period, Mr Deputy, it is another period. And the other period is governed by other principles! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, captives are surely an instrument of budgetary management from which the Government will not abdicate. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, as we have already stated in this debate, we will make a level of captivating in the coming year less than 2017, we will make a level of captivating appropriate to a budgetary liability exercise that has to include for the budget management of the current year a set of funds that will enable us to respond to risks that may occur throughout the year and that budgetary implementation must be careful. Corrective budgets are not exercises of humility;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u71	They're transparent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u72	... Corrigendum budgets are exercises that are brought to this House because of poor budgetary calculations, because of budgetary irresponsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u73	It's being very hard on Dr. Mariana Mortagua!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u74	Unfortunately, already this year we are witnessing the tragedies to which, of course, all public services and the state have to react. The way to do this and to ensure that this reaction capacity is, of course, through responsible, transparent budgetary implementation and to achieve these objectives. Of course, the same applies to vocational training and therefore all vocational training programmes will be implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u75	Are you going?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u76	With regard to self-employed people, what I would like to say to you, Mr President, is that from the first hour of debate on all budgetary measures the Government is prepared to clarify and correct what needs to be corrected. It is not a question of questioning what was the principle of fiscal justice, of covering the self-employed of a set of benefits that are so far forbidden to them... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and it is important that all measures be read together and that we do not enter into a policy debate that is not the one that interests the Portuguese. What matters to the Portuguese is that tax justice, transparency and that everyone, from the point of view of the tax machine, is being treated in the same way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u77	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, taxes, in addition to financing the State budget, also have a redistributive function and must promote choices that guarantee a fairer and fairer division of national wealth. With the intervention and decisive contribution of the CFP, the State Budget for 2018 makes choices in this regard, relieving the taxes of millions of taxpayers of lower and intermediate incomes. Due to the minimum of existence, the collapse of IRS steps or the VAT of musical instruments, elements of justice are introduced in fiscal policy and mischoices of the past are reversed. We are pleased to note that the Government has come closer to the CFP proposals, an approach which has allowed for progress that benefits millions of taxpayers, but that, on the option of the Government, still falls short of what would be desirable and possible for the construction of a more just and appropriate fiscal policy to the development needs of our country. in the speciality discussion, the CFP will continue to beat so that the State budget can incorporate other elements of fiscal justice, in particular those relating to the most appropriate taxation of economic groups, large businesses and citizens with very high incomes. Mr. Minister of Finance, the former PSD / CDS government imposed the freezing of the minimum of existence in 2015, knowing perfectly well that this measure severely affected the taxpayers of lower incomes. The CFP at the time denounced this tax sheet and beat itself in the last two years for its reversal. As a result of our persistence, the minimum existence is increased, allowing more than two hundred thousand family aggregates with low incomes to have relief in the IRS. It is also a positive option to allow, for the first time, independent workers to benefit from the application of the minimum of existence, which means, in practice, that many independent workers will be exempt from the payment of IRS. [[PCP applause.]] With the decisive contribution of the CFP, in this State budget, an increase in the number of IRS steps is made, ensuring fiscal relief to 2 million and 800 thousand contributors of the 2. o is 3. the steps, relief that may rise to almost 300 € per taxpayer. On a proposal from the CFP, the proposal for a State budget also envisages a reduction in VAT for musical instruments. Thus, from next year onwards, musicians will be able to acquire their work instruments at a lower price, fair measure and that stimulates artistic creation and use. All these measures are a significant tax relief for millions of Portuguese, contrary to the previous PSD/CDS government’s option of taxing labour income. However, Mr Minister, there are still doubts about changes in the taxation of self-employed persons who have chosen the simplified scheme. The Government's proposal seems to be intended to tax these workers on the basis of their real income and no longer be presumed expenditure which actually does not exist. Mr Minister, what impact will these measures have on the taxation of these workers? From what income can there be an increase in taxation? Will the obligation to submit invoices supporting expenditure not entail a bureaucratic burden and additional costs for these workers? These are the issues we ask the Minister to answer fully and clarify. Finally, Mr Minister, the CFP believes that the taxation of capital is far from what would be fair and necessary. Steps must be taken to correct this situation. We are no longer dealing with what was assumed as a commitment to realize in the discussion in the specialty, such as the increase in the spill over businesses with profits of more than EUR 35 million. We are dealing with other measures that need to be considered, such as compulsory entrenchment for taxpayers with higher incomes or the adoption of measures that make aggressive tax planning difficult for economic groups and large companies. Such measures made a significant contribution to greater tax justice and equity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u79	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u80	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, does this State Budget, as did the 2016 and 2017 Budgets, a very great effort in the sense that he referred to: greater fiscal justice, recovery of the income of a vast number of Portuguese, Portuguese, who for a long time have been withdrawn from the priorities of public policy. Today, we have the possibility of doing so together. I stress 'together' because it is precisely this joint work that we have done that has also brought Portugal an image of political and social stability which is reflected in the credibility of all the exercises we do here together. It is important to underline this because when we look at our surroundings, outside Portugal, we see that this is not the reality that is happening in Europe. This added value must be valued by us and it must be valued precisely in these debates. That is why I tell you, Mr President, that, obviously in the field of expertise, we will be available to discuss the options that we have presented in the initial version of the State budget and certainly to move forward in the directions we consider appropriate, maintaining a balance in this proposal that we should all value, because it is this balance that allows us to design this State budget as a future budget for all Portuguese and also, surely, for those who have as their source of income the incomes of category B. Therefore, and as Mr Deputy pointed out, in the proposal for 2018, Portuguese with these incomes have access to a set of benefits that were excluded from category B, and are also available for other forms of income from other Portuguese. Because we consider it unfair and how it has happened so far, we think this is the time and time to include the minimum of existence and the total non-penorability of its incomes. As for the calculation of the tax payable, up to €16,416 there is no change for liberal professionals, for those who have incomes in category B. In other words, nothing will be strictly passed on to those who have incomes of category B up to €16,416.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u81	Just the benefits!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u82	Only the benefits, which are many and cover many tens of thousands of workers in category B, Portugal. From this value, what we propose is that, in a simplified way and through e-Fature, these taxpayers can declare all the expenses they contribute to the formation of their income. In fact, this is the fiscal principle that is behind the automatic deduction that is made today. In a simplified way, it will be possible for these taxpayers to continue to lower their income to the cost component that contributes to the formation of that income. from this point of view, being appropriate the fiscal premise that this reduction corresponds to costs associated with income formation, we do not expect there to be any tax effect in this dimension. But we realize that there are different situations. For example, yesterday it was mentioned here by Mr Prime Minister, the case of very, very small farmers. We are obviously open to clarify and redesign the measure in order not to create inequities, since we were initially thinking about reducing these same inequities among taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u83	To close this block of requests for clarification to which Mr. Minister for Finance answers individually, Mr. José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, Minister of Finance, may not be pleased with all banks, but social concerns are visible in this State budget. There is indeed an effort in this budget to promote social justice. But if this Budget promotes social justice is because there is an reversal of policies that were followed by the PSD/CDS government. In fact, I wanted to reinforce what Mr Minister said about the rostrum, because the austerity policies that we had to endure during those difficult four years were in fact not inevitable, were an option, as is now being verified. That is why we say that if this budget promotes social justice it is because there is an investment of policies. Perhaps that is why this State budget does not have the sympathy of those who wanted to perpetuate the impoverishment of Portuguese and austerity policies and who continue to understand that the incomes and rights that were withdrawn from families should not be returned. Nevertheless, it is not, however, well that the option was different and that this Budget, like the last two Budgets, returns rights and incomes, which are not missing examples: pensions and reforms will have increases, public administration workers will recover rights and incomes, notably with the defrosting of career progressions and the replacement of their remuneration until the end of the legislature, but also with the full payment of night work and extraordinary hours. There is also, in this State budget, more fiscal justice with regard to labour income, which is seen in two ways: on the one hand, by strengthening the progressive nature of the IRS, which stems from the introduction of two new steps, which range from five to seven, benefiting the lowest incomes and intermediate incomes, and on the other hand by increasing the value of the minimum of existence. When we talk about the minimum of existence, we talk not only about the increase in its value, which alone will promote a new dimension of the universe of the people concerned, but also about the extension of the minimum of existence to the self-employed, who, so far, could not benefit from this measure, which, in our view, was a gruesome injustice that it was necessary to remove, as now does this State Budget. Now, with these mixes at least in existence, we will have a wider universe of families benefiting from this guarantee. in this sense, I would like Mr Minister to tell us how many self-employed workers are earning, in terms of IRS, with this State budget, only as regards the extension of the minimum existence of self-employed workers. In other words, the Minister has already referred to the total universe of people who will benefit from this guarantee, but the question was focused only on the universe of self-employed workers who are now covered by the minimum of existence with these changes arising from the State budget for 2018. By the way, I think it was important to know, too, and it would be useful if the Minister could advance this information, which is the budgetary impact of the amendments in the minimum of existence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u85	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u86	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, as I said recently, the set of amendments we propose in tax matters, particularly for category B, are aimed at undermining the conditions of the tax situation of these workers. For 90 % of category B workers, who have incomes of less than or equal to €16 000, we guarantee that there is no tax increase ; on the contrary, by introducing the minimum of existence, some will see their tax situation aggravated. in all the workers who will be benefited by the minimum of existence changes, according to our estimates, 137 000 low income aggregates will no longer pay IRS and about 74 000 summers will, by this way, be their collection reduced. This is the meaning of this measure, i.e. the reduction in the tax burden of those who have less income, insofar as the State Budget for 2018 promotes a reduction in the tax burden for all taxpayers, based on IRS, but particularly concentrated on these taxpayers with lower incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u87	Mrs. Members, moving to the next stage of the debate, the Bureau records the registration of five Members, PS, PS, the Left Block, the CDS-PP and the CFP, for requests for clarification, to which Mr Minister will answer together. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, the Minister has a traditionally difficult and complex relationship with the truth. A little while ago he dared to refute Mr Duarte Pacheco by claiming that the tax burden decreased in 2017, compared with the tax burden of 2016. Perhaps the Minister does not know the state budget report, which we all expected to have its security, which attests that the tax burden in 2017 is 34, 5 % of GDP when in 2016 it was 34, 2 % of GDP. Minister, don't fool this House and don't be afraid to fool the Portuguese! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u89	Mr Minister, the Government has tried to conceal the purpose, as deliberate as unconfessable, of harmonizing 114 000 Portuguese who declare their income on the basis of the green receipt regime and who are in the process of suffering an increase in tax penalty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u90	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u91	And, worse, he did it under the cloak of transparency and fiscal equity, in an encapsulated way: he declared the end of the simplified regime, practically eliminated automatic deductions, complicate people's lives, exacerbating the declarative burdens and conceiving a kind of aggressive fiscal planning subject to mental reserve, knowing that these changes will degenerate into an extension of the tax base and, necessarily, an increase in taxes that insists on rejecting that occurs and pretending that it is undesirable and that the majority of parliament seems strangely uninterested to avoid. The facts must be duly marked, Minister. The proposal of the State Budget is an unfair attack and a dishonest violation of the relationship of trust between the State and these 114 000 independent workers. And Mr. Prime Minister yesterday, and Mr. Minister of Finance today, very much lacked the truth to this House and to the Portuguese when they said that all taxpayers will have a relief from the IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u92	It's the custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u93	Do you really believe what you're saying? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u94	Mr Minister, if you remember, in the discussion we had in the Committee on Budget, a few days ago, of the examples I set out, there was at least one that Mr Minister did not give a satisfactory answer. This response is necessary and decisive, even more so when Mr Prime Minister yesterday said that the amendments made to this specialization scheme would be confined to small farmers. In Portugal, all studies point to the existence of large tens of thousands of false green receipts, workers who should have a contract of work but do not have. They are of the most unprotected and defenseless, they have no expense to submit, as soon as the amendments proposed by the Government are of the most serious and socially shocking nature. Minister, what do you have to tell these people, these most unprotected workers? Do you have the defiance to say you won't pay any more taxes? Or will you have the courage to assume, once, that, for example, if you take 2500 €/month will pay more 22% of the pay, not outside this government proposal? I give you another example, Mr Minister, that of local housing, which has been an opportunity for many small owners and decisive in the push that tourism has given to the economy. In 2017, the government increased taxes and will do so again, breaking the confidence of those who invested, created their own employment and understands that their efforts are being consumed by a government that despises the initiative, discourages autonomy and undermines small entrepreneurs. I would also like to give you another example, Minister : that of the small traders, who will also be harmed. The question is insurmountable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u95	Mr. Deputies, it's been over the four minutes you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u96	These measures are consistent with the Programme of a Government which does not assume its responsibilities, which uses the tax system to cover the sacrifices required and which lacks the good energies, merit and strength of our society. We will try to defeat this absurdity in the field of specialty, but we already know that all the changes that are produced do not hide the intention to increase taxes for this category of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u97	The next request for clarification is from Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, from the PS Parliamentary Group, which I take advantage of to congratulate. November 3 is really a great day. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u98	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you too. November 3 is indeed a great day and I also congratulate Mr President in front of the House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to bring brief notes to the collation and reflection for the Minister, if any, to draw up a little on them. The first concerns the need to continue budgetary consolidation and the reduction of the budget deficit. There are people in this House and in the country who do not understand why, having achieved such good budgetary results, we still need to reduce the budget deficit. I would like, if possible, to clarify even more clearly the country as part of the reduction in the budget deficit is paid to itself. That is to say, what the country gains in reputation, through this fiscal consolidation and the fulfilment of the objectives it has proposed, leads to a reduction in the interest rate, a reduction in interest and a saving in interest, which means that part of the reduction in the budget deficit is automatically paid, let us say, by reducing interest. It is very important to explain this to this House and to the country, to realize that we are, and we will continue on the right path. The second note has to do with the question of pseudofolga—is a little connected to this issue. We will now have the debate on the budget in the field of expertise, where there is always an opportunity to introduce amendments that increase expenditure and do not increase revenue. Mr. Minister, do you think we have a strike in the field of specialty? in my weak understanding, there is therefore no strike, in my view, responsible proposals, in the field of specialty, will have to be neutral from the budgetary point of view. In other words, if there is a proposal for an increase in expenditure, there should be a concomitant proposal for an increase in revenue, because in fact we have to achieve the objective for the deficit. I would like to stress something that Mr Minister has just said, with what I fully agree: the prerogative of captivity is indeed a management tool. It can even be said that, from a constitutional point of view, it is part of the Government's exclusive powers to implement the State budget — the Assembly of the Republic adopts a limit on expenditure and the Government manages it. at this point, I agree with something that has already been said, but I would also like to have your opinion on this: I think that the objective for the deficit should be exactly the one we proposed, it should not be less or more. It is because, if it is much less, it means that we are having a more restrictive budgetary policy, we are demanding more of the Portuguese than necessary, and, if it is more, we are also in a certain way going beyond what we have proposed. I would also like the Minister to speak on an issue which, I think, afflicts many Portuguese, many public officials, or some sectors, and which has to do with the issue of defrosting careers. Indeed, I think this Budget is going where it can go and can't go much further. Disengagement must be progressive, that is what was in the Government Programme and that is what is in this Budget, both for 2018 and for 2019. Therefore, the Socialist Party understands very well the frustration of many employees who would like to see all their 2010 conditions restored, but it is not possible to do everything at the same time, so I think it was also necessary to address these employees. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u99	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulino Ascension also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, the new Madeira hospital is an imperative need that the region cannot respond, subject to the weight of its debt and the limitations of the re-debt containment. There is a commitment that has been made in the previous budget, but that does not have an expression in the budget proposal that we are considering here. This commitment was reaffirmed here yesterday by the Prime Minister. The PSD has already responded to these statements, saying that the new hospital process has returned to the zero stake. in fact, it never left the zero stake because this project was never a priority of the regional government of the PSD and it is still not. He has ruined millions in useless works and continues to make other choices and postpone this project of the hospital. The opinion of the regional Parliament on this budget proposal speaks in EUR 5 million, for which it is necessary for the Republic to contribute in order to advance the work, with projects and expropriations. The Madeira Regional Government does not have 5 million to start with the hospital, but, on the other hand, has 24 million to complete a fast route left unfinished by Alberto João Jardim, who will serve a population of 1000 people to shorten the journey to Funchal in 10 minutes. These are the PSD choices in Madeira. The hospital is always delayed and serves only to feed an institutional guerrilla with Lisbon and to try to disguise its incompetence and unwillingness to solve Madeira's problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u102	Mr Minister, I put another important question to you: being the interests of the debt of the Region to the State higher than those that the State supports to finance itself on the markets, it is not understood that the State works with the credit it has granted to a region. Finally, I refer to the situation in Venezuela, which is bringing back, against its will, many migrants to Madeira. The integration of these migrants raises problems whose size can hardly be anticipated, and therefore the government must contribute, and these issues must have a concrete answer in the State budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u103	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u104	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on your birthday, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, I am not the first to say it, and I will certainly not be the last: outside this Chamber, many analysts, many entrepreneurs, many people who have looked at the Budget have said that it is very small for the economy and that it is even agitating for businesses and investment. If Mr Minister does not want to hear the voice of an opposition Member, for example, what a representative of employers, a social partner, the President of the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) said: this budget is disappointing for businesses. When we read the Wire Budget, we realize that, for example, the reduction of IRC — a commitment of the Socialist Party, which voted favourably in this House — does not include the Budget! When we look, for example, at something that would be very important as having an effective reduction of government debts to businesses, also fundamental to encouraging the economy, there is nothing in the budget! When we read, for example, today's news that gas and gas will rise again to peak this year already next week, we look at the withdrawal of the overtax of ISP (charge on petroleum products) that you have created, and there is nothing! None of these measures are included in the Budget. But we know that there will be at least one measure directed directly to companies, which is the rise of the IRC spill, which has already been announced either by the Portuguese Communist Party or by the Left Block, in this Chamber. It is worth looking at the arguments and understanding why this tax comes up. A Member of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in a very clear and transparent way, in a newspaper article, wrote—and I will quote: « The increase in the IRC spill would allow to correct the excessive gains these companies had with the asset revaluation regime ». It is also worth remembering what this asset revaluation scheme was. It will now be one year in November 2016 that the Government approved an asset revaluation scheme that led the State to lose EUR 242 million in IRC revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u105	It's true! [[It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u106	The account is not mine, it consists of an opinion from UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit), produced in this same Assembly. But there is worse, Mr Minister: the vast majority of these 242 million, the large tax brokerage went to one company, the EDP. Again, UTAO tells us that only in the case of EDP there was a tax bond of EUR 174 million. Now this increase in the IRC spill, in order to compensate for the tax bill that was given to a company, is twice as incomprehensible, because it is not enough for you to have interrupted the planned decline of IRC — but above all because it makes the other companies pay the tax bill that you decided to give to a company, which is EDP. I'd like Mr. Minister to answer this. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u107	For the last requests for clarification of this round, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u108	Mr President, Minister, this State budget does not impose cuts in wages, it does not impose a cut in the payment of extraordinary work, in overtime or in quality hours, and does not require that collective bargaining be removed in the business sector of the State. In fact, what bothers the PSD and the CDS is that it is a State budget that does not attack workers' rights. This budget restores the full payment of extraordinary work, night work and quality hours, defuses career progression and restores remunerative valuations. And do it because it is to establish justice to do so, since workers have been fighting for years to do so. Since 2009 there has been no wage increases. There are workers with frozen careers for more than 12 years and hundreds of thousands of workers, even with many years of service in the Public Administration, to earn little more than the national minimum wage. Mr Minister, the positive steps taken by this State budget in the recovery and replacement of rights must be a starting point and not a point of arrival. Valuing public employment requires political will, but this will cannot be left only in the speeches, it has to have a concrete translation in the life and day-to-day of public administration workers. The defrosting of progression in careers can't leave anyone out. They cannot stand out all those who have a career progression regime based on the accounting of the time of service because, Minister, there are many workers with the time of service frozen for several years, such as teachers, justice professionals, military and security forces, nurses, doctors, among others. It is necessary to defreeze the progression in careers for all as well as the increase in wages in 2018, with the entry into force of the State budget. The fight against precariousness, Minister, must be a daily struggle and not a process that takes place every 20 years. There cannot be a process of regularizing precarious links and, in parallel, in public services and in the business sector of the State persisting in hiring through internships, false green receipts, part-time work and outsourcing. A new phase of this process was opened until 17 November, and the PCP was very much beaten by it, but the fight against precariousness must be a principle and practice of every day. A permanent job must correspond to an effective link, and that must be a principle that should guide public employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u110	Because there are no quality public services without motivated, valued and in appropriate numbers. Because the wager in the quality of public employment is not expenditure, it is investment in living and working conditions of thousands of professionals. But above all, it is an investment in the conditions of operation and response of public services, the National Health Service, public school, public social security. Because the rights of workers and quality public services are mandatory for a more just and developed country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u111	To answer the questions, I have the floor of Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Cristovão Norte, apparently agreed late for the difficulties of category B taxpayers, and not only agreed late, as they wish. [[PS deputy Maria Antónia Almeida Santos' laughs.]] [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. But, honourable Member, I can assure you that 90% of the taxpayers in category B, those who in one year have income up to €16,416 or, monthly, if you want €1368, more than twice the national minimum wage, these taxpayers or will have their income less taxed or will remain exactly as they are today. Mr President, what is important in a tax system is that it is fair, and fiscal justice is also done cross-cuttingly. It is also important that the tax system treats all taxpayers in the same way and that the simplified version, based on the use of e-invoice, a huge investment made by the Tax Authority in its relationship with taxpayers, can also benefit these taxpayers in the sense of tax transparency. That's all. Obviously, we are very open to introducing improvements and clarifications in the field of expertise. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, who I take advantage of to congratulate, is true that much is done by the companies in this Budget, beginning with the reduction that the interest paid today in Portugal by companies, by families and, of course, by the State, brings to its daily activity. It is very important that we all contribute to this tendency to reduce the weight of interest in our debt, and it is clear that this is only done with a reduction in public debt, in a trajectory that started in 2016, continued in 2017 and surely maintained in 2018. The amendments that we are open to, as it is good to see, cannot, in our view, alter the principles of budgetary balance which are currently established. This has been the case in recent years and we are quite confident that this will continue to be the same this year, not diminishing the wealth and importance of the debate that we are going to have in the field of expertise. The trajectory of the deficit is that it enables me to comply with the principle that I began by stating, so important for the country, for businesses and for families, that it is to place the public debt path on a declining path that, in the long term, allows the value we pay for interest to be substantially lower. I already mentioned the gains that we had in just four months to reduce these rates. This is to maintain and this trajectory is the one that can bring future to the country. The measures — also responding to Mrs Rita Rato — that this Government has presented, in particular for the public administration workers, have been characterized by respect for and appreciation of all its workers. It was so at 35 hours, so it was with the review of the requalification regime, so it was with the new system of vocational training in the Public Administration, in the replacement of wages and now in the valorization of careers. All these measures contribute to better performance of the Public Administration, to an improvement of the services provided by it. But, of course, all this is achieved with more motivated, valued workers, and for whom the Public Administration has the notion of belonging that I mentioned in my initial intervention. This collaborative regime that we are implementing in the Public Administration and its management is to continue and take very seriously, because it is in it that we review the real structural reforms in the Public Administration in Portugal. Mr Paulino Ascenção refers to the situation of Madeira hospital. As you know, the establishment of the working group that will prepare the whole process has been completed very recently. The truth is that in the State Budget of the Autonomous Region of Madeira there are no money before 2019 for the construction of this hospital. It is a matter that will now be discussed, within this working group, with the central administration and we hope that the choices we all have to take will be compatible with a more rapid advance in this whole process. The issue of interest is a matter that has been examined with the Autonomous Region. We have a regional finance law that we all have to comply with, and that is obviously something that will continue on the table in our conversations, in our work, which is continued with the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Regarding immigrants in Venezuela, as you know, there was a reaction when it was necessary to act and there were reinforcements in several areas, including that of health, to meet these requirements. We will continue to monitor this situation with the authorities of the Autonomous Region of Madeira in order to be able to respond to the demands put before us. Mr. Mota Soares, I confess that I was a little puzzled by your idea of going up or down the IRC and for who to go up or down the IRC. The fall in the IRC rate is not part of the Government's programme, it is not a measure that we have taken in our Programme, and the truth is that we have been fulfilling all the matters that are in the Government Programme, also in relation to companies. I am strengthening an issue which was discussed yesterday in this Parliament, which concerns the enormous benefits that Portuguese companies have taken away from the administrative simplification we are promoting in Portugal. As Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira said recently, companies have taken enormous benefits from reducing their debt costs and from all over the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u113	The huge benefit EDP has received!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u114	With regard to reducing government debt to these companies, with which, of course, we are also concerned, for 2018 there is a centralized allocation, close to 600 million euros, which will be implemented through the work of a group that will be created to manage the debt in the National Health Service, with a view to dealing with this accumulation of indebtedness that everyone is concerned about. It is clear that this has a direct benefit for the National Health Service. In fact, this is the origin of one of the savings, which we talked about yesterday, of the costs with the debt in the National Health Service. Indeed, Mr, this appropriation is in the State budget, as is the creation of this working group, and we will work throughout 2018 to reduce all these costs that the situation has historically imposed on the functioning of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u115	About IRS, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u116	We moved on to the next phase, with five further requests for clarification. First of all, Mr Nuno Serra, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister of Finance, after a tragic summer, in which we had several fires with disastrous consequences for our country, the Government has repeatedly stated that the forest was a priority for Portugal. Moreover, in July, soon after the fires of Pedrogão, several diplomas that brought structural changes to the forest and forest management were approved here. In the Council of Ministers, diplomas have also been approved which will enable these changes to be made, and one of them — the forest register — has been launched recently. The President of the Republic also said that this was the last opportunity for this government to change the forest, which would have one year and 10 months to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u118	PSD Members do not stop quoting the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u119	Mr. Minister of Finance, yesterday we heard Mr. Prime Minister say here, several times, that the priority was the forest. We have also heard Members from the various sides asking which funds this Budget was increasing for the forest, something to which Mr Prime Minister has not been able to answer. Mr Minister for Finance, knowing that this budget was drawn up after July, after Pedrogão, after having approved all these diplomas in this House, knowing that the forest is a priority for this government, and so that all those who are out there and who have heard this plan can have the notion that they are really prioritising the forest, so that the Members who questioned the Prime Minister yesterday and for the Prime Minister himself to know what is the money that is being reinforced in this Forest Budget, I would like to ask him the following: clearly, what is the strengthening that exists in this Budget either for investment in forests or for structural prevention? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u120	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Lara Martinho of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u121	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister for Finance, have already had the opportunity to show that this State budget is very positive for the autonomous regions, particularly those of the Azores, which is in contrast to the reality that we lived in the previous government. This is a Budget that comes following the line of those to whom the PS has already used us and that we hope it will continue until the end of the Legislature. We have a budget that meets the regional finance law, which did not happen to those of the previous government; we have an budget that shares the public inter-air transport obligations, which did not happen to those of the previous government; we have a budget that also invests in the Azores and bets on strategic projects. In short, this budget expressly reaffirms the constructive, cooperative and director relationship that this Government has had with the autonomous regions. We know that many challenges still persist. in the case of the Azores, there are a number of situations that require particular attention and that require an effort on the part of this government so that they can be overcome: speaking of the economic development of the third island, which has already been evidenced yesterday, of the continuous reinforcement in support of inter-transport and the development of other projects that can enhance the development of our region. Knowing that there is still much to be done on the part of the Republic, what we still demand is solidarity, justice and work, I ask you, Minister of Finance, whether we can continue to count on this Government for the development of the Azores and Autonomous Regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u122	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Domingos from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, if there is continuity in this Budget is in mistrust of the private initiative. From the outset, this government is on the backs of entrepreneurs, the freedom of action of families and, with this socialist, communist and blogger government, mistrust extends to businesses, entrepreneurs and even the social area. And it begins immediately, Mr Minister, with the serious attack your government makes on the investment of families in education, eliminating the benefits within IRS of the educational valleys. Nothing is more relevant to the future of families than investment in education, but nothing is more unpleasant to this government and this majority than allowing families to choose a public service of education, but that is carried out by other schools. With regard to these valleys, the Minister speaks of a fraud that could exist. So correct the fraud, don't eliminate that benefit. My colleague, Mr Cristovão Norte, has already mentioned the huge attack on self-employed people, small entrepreneurs, for whom the bureaucracy is complicated and taxes are rising, in some cases 15% to 20%. Finally, Minister, I would like to speak on IRC. You do not comply with the agreement that the PS had made with the former Government and Portugal is currently taking the eighth place between the OECD countries with the highest IRC rate for companies with higher profits. What happens is that the Left Block and the PCP are now proposing an increase in the state spill. And the question I want to ask you is: in what position do you want to put Portugal? Do you want Portugal to have the highest IRC rate in OECD? Or the second? Or the third? We've already got the highest eighth! Mr Minister, I believe that this reveals just one need to go around searching for revenue to comply with agreements with other parties, but what is very serious — it is important to highlight — is that this is a vision of mistrust of the private initiative, which today does not take place in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u124	Also in the representation of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Ventura has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, last week I asked you about the State budget's money for decontamination of the soils and aquifers of the Third Island and you did not know. It is strange that the main worker in the Budget does not know whether there are money for decontamination, as it exists in the Economic Revitalization Plan. You said you'd give me the answer. Today, can you say, in front of all Portuguese — because this is a cause of Portugal — whether or not there will be money in the State budget for decontamination? And more: I deeply regret that Mrs Lara Martinho has already made two interventions, within the framework of the State budget, to claim the solution of situations relating to the Azores, and even on the third island, and has never mentioned the decontamination of soils and aquifers on that island. This is a situation that is affecting human health and the environment. [[PSD applause.]] Tell me, Minister, whether or not there will be any money for this, in accordance with the Third Island Economic Revitalisation Plan. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to create conditions for us to continue our work. [[Pause.]] In order to make the last request for clarification to Mr. Minister for Finance, Mrs. Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, yes or no? Does the government comply with what it has committed to Madeira or not? The financing of the new hospital is a priority issue for Madeira and needs to be clarified and defined once and for all. It is the minimum that this Government can do for the Macedonians and the Portuguese, after funding has already been provided by the Prime Minister and after the PS posters spread through the streets of the region. Mr Minister, the regional government is doing its part, we just don't know what part the Republic is in right now. This government has already promised a little bit of everything: it has already secured the financing of the new hospital, it has already promised half a hospital and now it is frightened! — there is not a single cent for its construction. Mr Minister, be serious and clarify once and for all when there will be a statement to the new hospital. Stop talking about working groups, stop playing party games and discriminate against Madeirans and Port-Saints. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u128	To answer this set of questions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u129	Mr President, Mr Nuno Serra, that the forest is a priority of this Government is evident in the Government Programme, in the National Reform Programme, in all the measures that we tabled in this House in August 2016, and against which, I remember, the PSD voted against. The PSD has never associated with this structural transformation, which is true, it is necessary to do in our forest. in the State Budget for 2018, we already have money included, which reaches EUR 90 million in the version that was presented. But all the funds will, of course, be assessed on the basis of the decisions which have been taken in the meantime and, once again, I would like to reiterate that the Government's commitment to this reform and the means to achieve it is not alterable. This is how it will be done, in budgetary terms, in 2018. Mrs Lara Martinho, of course, can continue to count on the Government's commitment to the development of relations with the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. That is exactly what I answered earlier to Mr Paulino Ascension and which together with the reply to Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa. It is true that there are a number of very relevant issues in which cooperation between the regional governments and the Government of the Republic is absolutely essential and we will continue to make every effort to ensure that such cooperation results in the implementation of very relevant projects, such as that of the Madeira hospital which, at the moment, does not reflect the budget of the Autonomous Region. This budget impact is only expected for 2019. Mrs Inês Domingos, the best evidence that there is no mistrust of this government in the face of the private initiative, nor the private initiative in the face of this government is the extraordinary increase in the investment we have been observing. Investment is growing, in all its components, well above 10 %. This is also reflected in the hiring activity of new workers by companies in Portugal. As you know, investment in human capital is the most important of the investments made by our companies and what is one fact is that we have witnessed, over the past few years, a simultaneous increase in the number of workers employed and the average wage of these workers. We have also seen that the overwhelming majority of this job gain is achieved at the cost of permanent employment — they are permanent contracts, they are not precarious, those that are being used in our companies. If you think that, in the way that Portugal is on its way, there is a better sign of confidence than this confession, Mrs Deputy, that I find no better indicator than this to assess this relationship of trust that exists between the economic policy, the present and the future of Portugal and our entrepreneurs and businesses, which are obviously crucial to the success of the economy in Portugal. Regarding the issue you put on the educational valleys, as you know, the childhood valleys are not affected. In fact, fraud and misuse of these valleys were detected for purposes that were not the purposes for which they were created. It is necessary to rethink this strategy, but it is certainly also necessary to stop, and already with this misuse of these funds. With regard to the agreement on IRC, I just wanted to remind you here that this agreement no longer exists for a long time. In fact, he was not met by the former Government in those that were the dimensions of VAT and IRS reduction that were included there, so we will be discussing this matter perhaps out of time, because it was decided by the former Government not to continue to honour this agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u130	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the answer period of Mr Finance to the questions put to him, we returned to the speeches. Thus, for an intervention by the Left Block, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u131	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: Year by year, in each Budget, we choose the answer to give to a country with deep marks of poverty, with lack of horizons of a better life, dequalified and depreciated work, of screaming asymmetry between an abandoned interior and a disorderly and acute fragility of public services that is made the human security of all. It is for this suffering country that we have to think about this Budget. And our people, even more after the destruction of territories, lives and hopes in the hurricanes of the fire, require clear choices for the design of a changed country. It is these imperative choices that the poor country wants us to deal with here clearly and firmly. The PSD and the CDS — who lack the courage to criticise the measures that return to the people who have lost in the period of their government — are nothing more than repeating the idea that this majority is unable to make structural reforms. People out there know what the expression « structural reforms » means, what it meant in each of the years and months of the PSD government and the CDS. It was cuts in rights and incomes, already so limited from those who have less, that it was the nostalgia of that time and that choice that the right here comes again as a mantra when the alleged lack of structural reforms cries. People out there remember the structural reforms that the right promised the pensioners: punish those who started working as a child and cut 600 million in paid pensions. on the contrary, this majority started doing justice to long-term contributions, fully aware that it is necessary to go much further to return to pensioners injured by austerity what should never have been taken from them. when voting against a Budget that guarantees, for the first time in a decade, that all pensions will be updated and that we will continue the trajectory of real increase in pensioners' income, the right shows that it is against the structural reforms that the poor country requires. As much as this costs the right, the real structural reform in pensions was entered into in the agreement between the Socialist Party and the Left Block and will be voted on in this State budget and approved by the votes of this majority. [[Congratulations from BE.]] People out there also remember what was the great structural reform that the PSD and CDS did in taxes: it was the huge increase in taxes of Vítor Gaspar and Maria Luís Albuquerque. The right that swears today to defend the green receipts was precisely the same as that which damaged the income and life of thousands of precarious workers. [[Congratulations from the BEe of the PS MP João Galamba.]] The right that today criticizes a Budget that guarantees a significant relief in the IRS is exactly the same as it did what it promised not to do, by increasing taxes and that it did not do what it promised when it did not end the overtax. Well, as much as it costs to the right, the real structural reform is here: we already guarantee the end of the overtax and a fairer IRS, with a relief that has passed from the 200 million registered in the Stability Programme to double this State budget and that it recovers income, starting with the taxpayers most attacked by the previous government. Let's not be wrong, then. The only structural reform that the right knows, and of which it does not hide a hurt miss, is to cut the right in rights. What the right will never realize is that stopping the impoverishment of the country, ensuring stability where there was precariousness and income where there were cuts, this is a structural reform of enormous concrete scope for the concrete life of millions of people. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the poor country demands that the structural changes in the country go further and will not forgive us if we refrain from confronting the essential thing that prevents the lives of the low from changing seriously. And going further is, of course, not to stay in the middle of the income recovery bridge, which is the structural reform par excellence for the lives of the poor country. Mr. Prime Minister, the Left Block registers, with pleasure, its repeated commitment to the recovery of labour income, but, in order for that word to be honored, this Government must abandon its paralysis around labour law. We need returns of income throughout the economy and that means collective bargaining and that means zero tolerance for precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This choice must be made in this mandate. And let us be clear: either we want a country that respects work or we want a huge Portuguese Padaria. The poor people will not forgive us if the strike brought by the exit of the excessive deficit procedure and by the growth of the non-food economy the qualification of the public education network and does not mean a great reinforcement of the National Health Service which suddenly distances public-private partnerships in this sector. The country that looks forward to the structural changes that we are operating will not realize that this better breathing of our economy continues to live with a budget for the culture that can only embarrass us. The poorer country, which has suffered most from the fires and today walks on ashes, will not forgive us if we are unable to support and rebuild a safer territory, and this is a response that requires structural change in the forest, in civil protection and not less in development. Each school, each court, every financial distribution, every health centre that has allegedly closed to save resources is another part of the abandoned territory that everyone laments today. Each door on the way between the village and the hospital is another penalty to those who resist inside. Each closed, degraded, abandoned train line is a country that continues to depopulate. It will be said that it is not in a State budget that solves decades of errors. That's right! But what is being discussed in this budget, as in the previous one, is whether or not there is a willingness to make a difference. Some will tell us that will exists, but not so much. Resources are limited, as we know. But we have much more ability to make choices than they like to admit those who always apologize when politics fails because of lack of means. That is why there is still another structural change that we need to have the lucidity and courage to do now. This change concerns debt. Today, seeing the enormous fragility of the country, of course, debt is not just a risk to external shocks, in a more or less brief future, it is an installed blackmail, it is a blocking force of the structural changes that the country claims. We all know that Portuguese debt is not only unpaid, but it is a time bomb and, therefore, delaying the choice of restructuring to go paying a debt unpaid to the little ones is like trying to neutralize the bomb by involving her in cellophane.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We will vote today, in general, the third Budget of the time of this majority, and we do it with a better country and with a majority who has been able to find ways without abdicating their differences. We therefore have the determination to face all the structural changes that the poor country demands from us and we assume as criteria the improvement of the lives of those below. That can only be the criterion and that is, therefore, the commitment of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u134	To request clarification from Mr José Manuel Pureza, Mrs Rubina Berardo. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u135	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Members of the Government and the Members of Parliament and the Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Left Block on the fact that Mr José Manuel Pureza has introduced the expression « structural reform » in the lexicon of the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]] But when we look specifically at what structural reforms, it should be borne in mind that yesterday the Left Block has already been assured that it would vote in favour of the State budget in general. It is also worth recalling, with a small reflection backward, a statement by Mrs Catarina Martins made some months and a half ago: « For the Left Block, before the State Budget for 2018, we have to finish the commitments of 2017 ». Well, what are these 2017 commitments that are not being fulfilled? We see here the blank check that is given by the Left Block to this State Budget. Mr José Manuel Pureza spoke on the fundamental issue of respect for workers. What does the Left Block say about respect for self-employed people? The Block ends up complicit in the original sin committed by the Government of the Republic in respect of green receipts and also false green receipts. Independent workers end up being even more victims of this State budget, as it is, which is an original sin, I repeat, of this Government of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u136	Not only does the Block give these independent workers nothing as much as it takes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u137	This is what the Socialist Government, for its third fiscal year, presents Portugal with another show of budgetary magic, but all magic tricks are dismantled in the light of rationality. The honourable Member referred to the issue of the IRS, but the fact is that all the illusion of the reliefs made by this Government by the IRS, whether on the overtax, either on the stairs or in the ESC (extraordinary contribution of solidarity) are consumed in total by indirect tax increases and on property, rates reaching EUR 1100 million per year. This is another big question of magic in this State budget. The narrative of the captivity is another clear example of this magic, of which the Left Block ends up complicit. Another illusion of this State Budget : in 2017, the commitment was made to finance the construction of the new Madeira hospital by 50 %, but in the 2018 Budget, not a word. Mr. Prime Minister made a total backtrack on his 2017 commitment and the Left Block remains complicit in this issue. Another unhonored commitment on the part of this Government, in which the PSD and the Left Block certainly have something in common, has to do with reducing the interest rate of the Republic's loan to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Where is the state's justice to profit with a loan to an Autonomous Region? The Prime Minister promised in 2015, but there were already three opportunities and nothing yet. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. José Manuel Pureza referred to the issue of debt restructuring and the fact that it is constantly postponed by this Socialist Government, that you systematically support the State budget after the State budget and also in motions of censure. It is worth remembering that this government solution can escape from the traditional Portuguese model, but no one here has invented any wheel, nor the powder. I recall here a very clear situation that happened in another country. We recall 2001, after the terrorist attacks of 11 September, which led to military intervention in Afghanistan : in Germany it governed the SPD / The Greens coalition and, it is recalled, the ideological matrix of The Greens, pacifism, clashed with military participation in Afghanistan. To recognize this participation, the Greens decided to hold an extraordinary congress to legitimize the positioning of their basic militants. Mr President, does the Left Block have the courage to listen to its militants regarding this zighuzag in so many matters of the State budget and to the false promises made by the Socialist Government and with the agreement of the BE itself? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u138	To reply, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u139	Mr President, Mrs Rubina Berardo, I would like to thank you for the question you have raised and to give you two notes on what you have mentioned. First of all, she said that she was glad that the lexicon of the Left Block had entered the phrase « structural reforms ». Madam Member, I believe that the question is precisely whether the expression'structural reforms' means just what you want to say, that it is a discursive tradition of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, that you have appropriated yourself, or whether you mean just cuts, punishment in people's lives, loss of rights, or even if you mean changes in the structure of a country so that it is fairer, so that it is more equal, so that it is more decent. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] The honourable Member can do nothing to get us to use the expression "structural reform" to do what needs to be done: the reform of a country, the change that the country requires to be more solid, so that it is more cohesive, so that it is fairer, so that it is more decent. Secondly, I would also like to greet the honourable Member for bringing here the problem of the workers' green receipt, because the fact is that the PSD has a long history, of which it certainly cannot be proud, in terms of the treatment of the people and the workers who are the green receipt.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u140	We have taken initiatives several times!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u141	This so pungent concern of the Democratic Social Party towards the precarious is something that really questions us very much. I want to believe that, with so much conviction in the fight against precariousness, the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and, who knows, also of the CDS would certainly have made a fierce opposition to the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] If you want me to tell you, Madam Member, until I think you will end the debate by recommending collective bargaining and debt restructuring, but, as we are still only in the morning, we will wait for the afternoon so that the debate can continue in that direction. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u142	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Seventy years. at the rate at which expenditure grew, between the initial budget of 2017 and the proposed for 2018, in cultural, recreational and religious services, specifically for the culture, it would be necessary almost 70 years to reach 1 % of the State budget for the culture. Culture must cease to be the poor relative and end the budgetary indifference to which it has been voted by successive governments. The demand of 1 % of the State budget for culture and subsequently towards 1 % of GDP is based not on an accounting arrangement in which the investment of local authorities and various ministries of central government is sought to be included in a satellite account but, first, in reality: Portugal occupies the penultimate position in the European Union in terms of public expenditure with culture, either as a percentage of GDP, or as a percentage of the State budget. This is a reality that has been cruelly and coldly translated in the definition of cultural fabric, in the closure of companies, in the cancellation of spectacles and festivals, in the conditioning of the freedom of creation to the scarce or null material conditions, in unemployment and precariousness, in the destruction of historical and archaeological heritage, in the degradation of national monuments that are later granted to Pataco with a view to commercial and tourist exploitation for decades to private, in the lack of personnel in museums in a context of enormous increase of visitors. We know that considerable effort is needed to reverse this scenario, but it is necessary and urgent. The CFP proposes another policy for culture, a policy that ends with the chronic underfinancing of cultural activities, which invests in central support for the democratization of culture, which rejects the mercantilization of culture, the mercanization of cultural goods, the elitism and privatization, a policy that is responsible for central administration and the protection of culture and ends with the desponsibility of decades. This implies moving further towards budgetary measures, such as more concrete targets to achieve, in the first phase, 1 % of the State budget for culture. We can't wait 70 years, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for this to happen, and we do not talk about the accounting of dispersed means that have failed to safeguard the definition of the general political orientation for culture. We need measures to strengthen public support for artistic creation from now on. We note the growth in this chapter, but we consider it to be clearly insufficient. We propose that the existing lines of support for the arts be increased to EUR 25 million in 2018, which is no longer the replacement of the 2009 values, the last year in which the contests opened without the blind cuts applied to the pretext of the PEC in the PS / Socrates government and the cuts on the pretext of the Troika aggression pact in the PSD / CDS government, which are added to the value of inflation. We welcome, as we could not help, the acceptance of the proposal from the CFP — a demand for many years ago by the Portuguese Communist Youth — to reduce the VAT of musical instruments, no longer being taxed as luxury objects. It is an important step forward for those who work, for those who study and for those who spread the music. Other steps, in other chapters, can and should be taken. If there are places to be filled in the tables of personnel of national museums, palaces and monuments, all the demands for their rapid completion are already taken. If there is a need for safeguarding and protecting cultural heritage, taking public investment measures to ensure that this happens, without referring only to those who have economic and tourist potential to the private sector, depriving workers and the people of their use. Even because what we paid in debt interest in a single year was for almost 10 years of 1 % for culture in the State budget. This is a real constraint to the replacement of rights and incomes, which must reach all fields of life and also to this pillar of democracy that is culture. The structuring of a true public service of culture requires a Ministry of Culture with material, human and financial means. Only in this way is it possible for the State to promote the democratization of culture by encouraging and ensuring the access of all to the whole culture, the access of all to the enjoyment and cultural creation. He said yesterday that if he still served as a Member and could vote in favour of the speciality of proposals to improve the budget of culture, he would do so. For then, the CFP will provide, constructively, several opportunities for Members of the Socialist Party's bench to be able to accompany the Prime Minister in that desire. That is our commitment, so that we can fly without "get out of the mud of ground that holds our ankles". [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u144	Mrs Ana Mesquita, the Bureau registered two Mrs to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. Do you intend to answer separately or together?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u145	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u146	Mr Sérgio Azevedo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u147	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, listening to the intervention of the Portuguese Communist Party, we feel clear that there are two CFPs. There is a CFP that, out there, claims to remain in the struggle for the end of austerity, but that inside it votes a Budget that not only keeps it as it worsens it. There is a PCP that outside says it defends precarious workers, but inside it approves a Budget that breaks with more than a decade of fiscal stability and covers more than 600 million taxpayers, and thus continues to have a double facet.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u148	You're going to have to vote on our proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u149	There is a PCP that, out there, fills the mouth with the defrosting of careers and another that, inside, says nothing and that approves a Budget that does not clarify the progression of careers of the military of the security forces, the officers of justice, the prison guards or even the teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u150	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u151	There is a PCP that, out there, walks with public investment under the arm, but inside, it constantly approves Budgets that represent the biggest public investment breaks that there is memory in Portugal. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u152	There is a PCP, as we have heard, which defends culture, but which has subsequently approved Budgets that are below the 1 % target claimed by them and where their autonomous bodies see their money increasingly diminished. Also in this respect, there is a PCP and a Left Block that out there accuses and denounces imperialism, militarism, the increase in interference, and inside they hide in chairs and in silence and prepare to approve a Budget that defines a deepening of the Common Security and Defence Policy (CPSD) as there is no memory. [[PCP protests.]] The interventions of the PCP always remind me of the Gospel, according to St Matthew, in particular the 12 Beatitudes: «(...) Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth; (...) ». However, on this issue of the deepening of the common security and defence policy, we heard a little longer, through the mouth of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who Portugal will participate in the deepening of permanent structured cooperation. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u153	Mr President, the intervention was on the budget for culture, it was on the State budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u154	The intervention is on the State budget, Mr. I know that it is an uncomfortable matter and that you are ashamed to approve a budget which provides for a deepening of the European defence policy that goes against everything that you have always said, against imperialism, against militarism and against interference. [[PCP laughter.]] But just over an hour ago, Mrs Deputy, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said publicly that Portugal was involved in permanent structured cooperation. We are well aware of this, Madam Member, what it means if we join the European Defence Fund in this Portuguese participation. We are well aware that Parliament has not been heard on this matter. We are well aware that numerous inquiries have been made on this matter with a view to obtaining clarification and documentation exchanged between the Government and the European institutions. In addition, Portugal will inform the European institutions of its participation at the forthcoming Foreign Affairs Council in which the Minister for Defence will also participate on 13 November. I would like to know, Mrs Deputy, culture aside, what is the position of the Portuguese Communist Party in this matter and whether your vote will continue to be ashamed, in this Budget. [[PSD applause.]] [[Rice from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u155	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, following the speech of the honourable Member, which I am very grateful for, on culture, what seems clear to all is that we do not have two CFPs — and the CFP, certainly, does not need me to defend itself, because its consistency, even when the result of disagreement, is evident to all — but surely two PSDs. [[PSD protests.]] Two PSDs that are now successively two; now they are alternative two; now sometimes they can even be at the same time two different PSDs. [[PS laughter.]] And what is remarkable, Mr Sérgio Azevedo, more than the 12 Beatitudes, seems to me to be the seven fatal sins of which you have tried to make the full, but that has not succeeded. At least I am counting on five: sovereign in the intervention will not be lacking; for, speaking of something that has nothing to do with culture, shows that it brought the intervention prepared and that it did not even have the ability to adapt to what was actually placed on the table by the honourable Member ; envy, because there seems to be a deep discomfort with what the coalition and the functioning of the so-called'management' have done and have brought structurally to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u157	Coalition? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u158	Without a problem, Mr, if the best thing you have to accuse me is that I have used the word « coalition » instead of another, this reveals a lot of weakness in the PSD argument. But let us continue with mortal sins: anger, wrath, which is underlying and which has not yet passed away, that is, two years later it has not yet been fully digested; and on the other hand greed. Why is greed still there underlying? Because, apparently, it was only born now in the minds of the Social Democratic Party that 1% is positive. And those years all in which greed said: « Irresponsibilities on the left. For culture 1 %? Oh, my God! No way! That would destroy any strategic option for the sector! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Two sins are still missing, but I would say that you have until the end of the parliamentary debate to sin twice more, and I will not be replacing Mr in that respect. I just wanted to talk about what we are discussing here, and I thank Mrs Ana Mesquita very much for bringing in the cultural issues. Indeed, and this has already been said — we have all had the opportunity to say — we would like to have more budget for culture and we agree on this aspect, but what we should, and we want, to emphasize at this time is what we have managed to do, increasing the appropriations available in culture. If we make the comparison, last year we actually had a 16 % increase and this year we have a 7, 4 % increase and, as a whole, if we go to 2015 and look at what is planned for 2018, we will achieve a structured increase in fiscal reinforcement in this sector. Is that what we're satisfied with? Is that the point of arrival? That is not, and indeed on the part of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, there is every openness in the debate in the field of expertise to improve the budget within the one which is indeed a limited framework, but a framework that can be worked out. And indeed that concertation of positions on the left has brought advantage, because it has allowed us to find points of contact between proposals of the Communist Party, the Socialist Party and the Left Block. That is precisely the spirit which has presided over the culture policy which, of course, also has—and I stress that, once again, it is not to devalue—the component of the other budgetary elements, which are not necessarily in the appropriations of the Ministry of Culture, but which are also part of the cultural policy and which, therefore, must be valued, because they also reflect an increase and greater capacity for intervention. Therefore, Mrs. Member, I wonder if there is any availability to find ourselves back in the middle of the road, and we are also sure that it is not only in 2018 that we will have a way to go, there is still much to do to strengthen the appropriations in the area of culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u159	In reply, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u160	Mr President, Mr Sérgio Azevedo, in fact it was a cultural moment that we had here because it looked like a real sketch of Monty Phyton. [[Congratulations and laughter from the PCP and the Greens.]] This is because we talked about culture and suddenly the right one pulls after the revolver and talks about what? defense and NATO! It can only be a reason for laughter, because, in fact, it wasn't about anything we were talking about here. And this perfectly reveals what the PSD also says about culture, which is zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u161	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u162	Zero! [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]] This is also very relevant to the position of the right in this debate, which, by valuing the accessory rather than the fundamental one, goes to form and not to substance and which, instead of talking about proposals to deepen the path of recovery of rights and incomes — I believe, crosses, that is not! — rather than being distracted talking about things that don't even have to do with the interventions that are being made here. That is not the way to be in the CFP, and, Mr Delgado Alves, we are available, as we have stated in our speech, so that, in the context of the debate in the field of expertise, we will be able to carry the budget and the proposals further in terms of the defence of culture, which is very precise, and we will not be limited only to this budget. Moreover, we must not fail to appreciate the process that took place last year and in the last budget of the State in which we made proposals that were welcomed, either at the level of strengthening money for support for the arts, either at the level of free museums, or at the level of literary scholarships. These were important steps... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u163	... for culture, but we also believe that other measures can be taken that can be far-reaching and that they are not restricted only to matters of strict budgetary scope. We will certainly be available for this discussion and, of course, we will try to ensure that concrete steps are taken in defining concrete goals to reverse this disastrous situation to which culture came, in particular, very specifically, with the intervention of the previous PSD/CDS Government. The CFP will certainly be available and will continue its constructive and proactive action on this path. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u164	Mr Miguel Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u165	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese population has the best health indicators in the world. Child mortality is residual, the average life expectancy is high, although with insufficient years of healthy life after 65 years, and there is a tendency to decrease deaths in the generality of diseases. The overall positive evolution of the main health indicators much is due to the strong commitment that, over almost 40 years, successive governments have made in the construction and development of a National Health Service of excellence, modern and accessible to all Portuguese. For these health gains, the decisive contribution of many tens of thousands of health professionals, whose competence and dedication made it possible for Portuguese generations to obtain quality and proximity health care. The climate of indefensible conflict between various professions, various health professionals and the government is now a matter of concern. The revenue of promising everything in election campaign and, once government did, spending two years misleading workers, trade unions and professional orders could not work out. The government, the PS and the parties of the situation have responsibilities that they do not assume and that they seek to deal with dilating and inconclusive mechanisms. Despite the much that has been achieved in these decades, no one responsible will doubt that the Portuguese health system faces undeniable challenges, mainly due to technological developments and demographic determinants, which place it under constant and increasing pressure. For the PSD, the response to these challenges must begin with a greater commitment to preventing health risks, promoting in citizens the adoption of healthier eating habits and lifestyles. in this sense, it is important that the state effectively transform the current paradigm of healing medicine for a greater commitment in health promotion and disease prevention policies. Another challenge facing the National Health Service, in the perspective of the PSD, is to combat the inequalities of Portuguese in access to health care. Economic, geographical and even cultural inequalities persist that are important to defeat and combat, ensuring that all citizens have effective access to health, regardless of their social conditions, their age or the place where they live. To this end, we need more integrated and articulated health services in which the interests of people, the interests of patients, are effectively the center of the system and in it they have true freedom of choice. in this system must live with the public sector, the social sector and the private sector, articulating each other according to the interests of the citizens and improving their accessibility to health care. The PSD believes in the principle of user freedom of choice, provided that within defined and regulated access rules, this freedom is inserted into a strategy for optimising available resources. We believe that the State should extend the supply of health services, enhancing the transition of care provided in institutions to care for proximity, in conjunction with community partnership responses. Doing more and better with adequate resources is a prerequisite for system efficiency and a condition for a quality health system. For the PSD, the state is and will always be responsible for the definition of health policy, as well as the unthinkable duty to ensure the access of all citizens to health care. To do this, we need a National Health Service with a more efficient and autonomous management, administratively simpler, socially more supportive, with higher functional quality. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We see that the State budget for 2018 pursues a policy that we qualify as continuity over the last two years. in practice, discounted propaganda and counter-information, the access of patients to health care continues to deteriorate, as the Court of Auditors concluded in an audit to the National Health Service — in fact, before that the access to health care report of the ACSS (Central Health System Administration) had already proved it. According to the Court of Auditors, the average waiting time for the first hospital consultation increased from 115 to 121 days, the failure to meet the maximum response times guaranteed increased from 25 % to 29 % ; the number of surgical waiting list users increased from 7 %, from 197 000 to 211,000. It was good for the government to hear and understand what the Court of Auditors said. But this proposal for the State budget brings wrong specific signs to the extent that, for example, transfers from the State budget to the SNS are reduced by EUR 50 million, and this shows a clear choice in the government's wagering in the SNS. The PSD understands and defends that the SNS has to be sustainable and balanced. By 2018, what will grow in the SNS will be the debt to suppliers, compromising, for the third consecutive year, the effort that the Portuguese made to reduce the debt, the sustainability and the rebalancing of the SNS. If the health budget for next year is an empty of positive answers, the government policy aims to deceive people when we observe the data of the last execution. From the outset, the investment in health records a 32 % fall this year compared to the previous year ; in 2016, it already recorded a 34 % fall compared to 2015. The debt rose to €961 million, twice, I repeat, twice when this government took possession. Debt on what? Debt in clinical material, debt in medicines. This mirrors a reality, which is that of the increasingly hospitals of the National Health Service face a serious risk of financial rupture, placing in the state of alert the provision of health care to users. The truth is that the reform of primary health care is paralysed—for example, FNAM, the National Medical Federation. The investment for 2018 increases 16, 1 %, based on the reductions in previous years we always continue to cut. The announced new hospitals over the past two years in very positive declarations, the new hospitals of Eastern Lisbon, the new hospital of Évora or Seixal, the new hospital of Sintra, the Algarve, the Funchal hospital, the new maternity in Coimbra, are mirages, inconsequential conversation without any budgetary expression. Staff expenditure in the SNS reduces from EUR 3992 million to EUR 3951 million in 2018. What's going on, sirs. Members of the PCP and the Block? Increased expenditure on PPPs ( public-private partnerships ). PPP expenditure for 2018 increases by EUR 133 million. EUR 447 million is planned for 2018, while EUR 313 million was planned for 2017. The reduction in the hiring of occupational physicians is a renewed promise for 2018, despite having had a continuous increase in the last two years of government, and the share of generic medicines is set as a target for 2018 by 53 %. It is said that it is currently 47, 8 %, but it was already 47 %, in 2015. This disability, this degradation, this backwardness of the SNS is dangerous, it is worrying, it questions, day by day, the access of Portuguese to health care. for our part, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is not complicit in this situationist and wrong policy. today, as in the government in the future, we will always work for a National Sustainable Health Service, a National Health Service at the effective service of solving people's problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u166	Mr President, the Bureau does not record any entries for clarification, so you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u167	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u168	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u169	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u170	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u171	Mr President, it was certainly for some time, but we had registered Mrs Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u172	Mr President, I am sorry, I did not have that information, but, of course, it is my responsibility. Thus, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u173	Mr President, Mr Miguel Santos, let me start by reminding you that the National Health Service deficit in 2016 has been the best since national accounts are calculated. The forecast of consolidated expenditure is EUR 239, EUR 1 million, an increase of 2, 4 %. Mr. Member, if this isn't good news, the honourable Member will have his vision, but no one else has it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u174	The item of goods and services is 55 % in relation to consolidated expenditure. It is an important weight and we both know what we are talking about — more means of diagnosis, more services. We are therefore ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the face of a real budget, where the health budget is your most faithful reflection. Well, I know the opposition doesn't like to do this exercise, we're still remembered about the Vatican they did a year ago. Perhaps they thought that this government would do what they always did: resort to financial maneuvers to shake the accounts for years to come, and we are still paying for it. But there is no better way to analyze the health budget for 2018 than to evaluate the implementation of the current budget. As you have already said, and well, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we found, a year later, that not only did it happen as it did, and the honourable Member has the elements of the production of the National Health Service, these, unfortunately, did not mention them. It's not good for you! But it is, I said, more than 800 million euros executed. It's something, sir. As far as investment was concerned, the honourable Member said that there was no investment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u175	And there isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u176	...but the growing investment in the National Health Service, after the years of the cuts that the PSD has maintained, will continue. We will expand and improve the primary health care network. More than 30 family health units and 70 health centres between the new and the qualified are nothing Mr. Deputy? Isn't it more investment? Did it not also deserve any mention to strengthen and develop the network of continuing care and other support services for dependents? Strengthening the mental health component, for example, with the hiring of psychologists for the National Health Service, so urgent and so pressing to reduce the devastating effects of the fire tragedy. Investing in the construction of new hospitals, as the honourable Member did, but to devalue. Mr President, if you want to devalue all efforts, it is there with you, but I would also say that there is a very important measure: the creation of the average response times guaranteed for consultations in primary care and hospital services, but it is obvious that the ability to comply with them obviously implies the profitability of the resources available. The strengthening of human resources, Mr. Deputy, especially doctors and nurses, was the great bet, and will continue to be. Do you remember what happened to these professionals in the PSD/CDS government? They invited us out of the country. But everything changed, we did different and we did better, just the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't see. We are aware that we do not have a crystal ball and that in this forecasting exercise, in view of the efforts we can see, there has indeed been an improvement in the care provided, as various studies and reports show. The access to health care report has recently referred to this reality, but also to this, and unfortunately, you did not want to mention it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u177	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u178	Finally, Mr President, this Government has proved that it was possible to save expenditure without penalizing users. Unfortunately, the PSD/CDS government increased expenditure and, above all, penalized users. It's been difficult times that the Portuguese don't forget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u179	To reply, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u180	Mr President, Mrs Maria Antonio, I welcome and register your participation in the debate and also register that the parties of the situation left it alone in this debate. [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] The presidential guard on your left — to the left of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group — has chosen not to discuss the budget and the budget for health. You understand why I understand and imagine why, the Pretorian Guard is failing and they have left it effectively alone to defend the honour of the government. Why is the guard failing? It is failing because these government options are materialized in the Budget. The new hospitals, Mrs. Member, it's conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u181	It's funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u182	It has no budgetary expression, it is simply 'to push with the belly' and to buy time. Then, how does it explain, in all the parties of the situation and their understanding with the government, that spending with PPPs increases exponentially? By the end of this year 333 million were planned, in September they have spent more than that and for the next year they put more than 133 million on it. Ask yourself: How does the Pretorian Guard come to this debate to explain this spending with PPPs?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u183	He's not coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u184	Madam Member, how do you explain that, in terms of the State budget, staff expenditure reduces by EUR 48 million? After all, Mr Adalberto — where is Minister Adalberto? He's not! — it is promising progress in careers, new careers, more integration of thousands more professionals in the SNS, finally promising 35 hours for all nurses and then finding that the budgetary expression for all these promises is less than last year's. Therefore, all these promises that the government, in good faith, will carry out in the next year, will certainly not involve any more expenses. There is one aspect in the Government's defence thesis, which the honourable Member has expressed and which the radical left parties have not wanted to express, which is the following: in the former Government everything was wrong, in the former Government access has been damaged, in the former Government the investment has fallen, but now, Mrs. Deputy, the rumbage of this thesis is that, and it is proven by the Portuguese on their day-to-day, by the reports of access to the health system of the central administration and by the audits of the Court of Auditors, all of them, the indicators are worse, and therefore it is understood why the Bloc and the CFP remain silent and the Member must rise and defend the honour of the Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u185	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u186	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: This budget has three fundamental characteristics. The first is austerity, well present and constantly hidden behind a speech that promises almost everything to almost all. The second is the mistrust and suspicion with which he looks at any manifestation of the private initiative, in particular the one that does not depend on the State. The third is the absence of any strategy other than the fragile 'argamassa' that brings together the parties that currently support the government ( PS, Block Left, PCP and The Greens) : the pure and simple maintenance of power. The CDS proposes an alternative strategy based on concrete proposals that believes in the role of people, families and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u188	The covert austerity is felt every day in the degradation of public services and in the Portuguese pocket and the veil that copper does not resist confrontation with some basic facts. For example, in this same discussion we had last year — in the 2017 Budget — Mr Finance said here and I quote: "And this is achieved by reducing the tax burden. (...) As happened in 2016, in 2017 we paid less taxes per euro of national wealth produced. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, the speech did not resist the test of reality. As UTAO states on page 47, the adjusted tax burden of one-off measures increased from 34, 1 % of GDP in 2016 to 34, 4 % in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u190	Get up. To use exactly the words of the Minister, for every euro of wealth produced by the Portuguese we pay more taxes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u191	How can we now believe in Mr. Minister when he's promised for 2018 exactly the same thing that he wasn't able to fulfill in 2017? [[CDS-PP applause.]] It should be noted that this increase in tax burden is due exactly to the increase in GDP in indirect taxes. In other words, as we said, the government took out with one hand what it was saying to rest with the other. And also at that time, as now, the parties that supported him used the same justifications. For each new tax they invented, there came a statement of revenue for a simultaneously sympathetic and popular purpose. This year we again have an attempt with the « tax of fried potatoes », trying with this basic trick to mislead reality: for every euro of wealth that the Portuguese create with their work, the state remains with a larger slice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u192	the potato, a larger part of the potato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u193	Also in the captives, which the budgetary strategy of this government has turned into real cuts through the silence, with the convivence, complicity and vote of BE and the PCP, the values are record. They are true remedial executions. To find a similar value it is necessary to go back to 2010. They're old habits! They are habits that, unfortunately, the PS knows very well and are bad habits. On the other hand, with regard to the ability to cover cuts, this government has given wings to its creativity. They are the vetoes of the drawer, that the postponement of the extension of the central operating block of the IPO (Istituto Português de Oncologia ) of Lisbon is an example as sad as paradigmatic, such as late payments of the EPE hospitals (enterprise public entities). This year alone the late payments, i.e. the caps, of the EPE hospitals increased to almost EUR 1000 million, EUR 961 million. They have practically doubled since the beginning of the year, as it is more than 46 million on average every month. And does the Minister of Finance still have the floor to say here that he's going to make savings on payments? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, do not pay what is not to be called saving, it is called to make crates, it is called to make debts. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u194	Debt is bald, it's all the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u195	Only if this policy corresponds to such debt restructuring that the Left Block came here to defend, perhaps this is the debt restructuring they want. The invoice of these delays, of course, is paid by the patients and also by the workers of the supplier companies, which, in your view, are not entitled to reinstatement. By coincidence, or perhaps not, neither one of them has unions or corporations that can defend them. Public investment, which they thought was so important, vital and crucial, was the main victim of the cuts. In 2016, it dropped almost 10 %, establishing a sad record and getting below what had happened even at the most difficult times of the adjustment period. Mr President, when he talks about the differences between now and that time, he has forgotten the most important: fortunately, now, Portugal has ceased to have a status similar to a protectorate and has been able to decide freely its future. It is a conquest of Portugal, of the Portuguese, and above all is the liberation of the legacy left by many of those who today share the Government with you and now also by some who sit on the PS bench to support you. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] In 2017, the State budget provided for a 27 % increase in public investment, but the government has already corrected this forecast for half and the latest data point to a growth of about one third. I believe that even the most bold and optimistic will doubt the credibility of the public investment growth forecast of 21 %, now indicated for 2018. The tactic is always the same: the government pretends that it does not cut, the Left Block and the PCP pretend they do not see; or, better, occasionally, the latter suffers a slight change, the Left Block and the PCP also pretend that they are surprised or very surprised. But everyone knows the obvious, that this is the stage they depend on to continue to pretend to give almost everything to almost everyone. [[CDS-PP applause.]] As you all know, this is a budget that only takes care of today, has no strategy for tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority who support the government, let us be clear: or you admit that there is not, in fact, money for everything...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u196	There's no, no, money for everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u197	... and that your political choice is to sacrifice public services and sacrifice public investment, or, then, to put together, for once, acts to your words and stop misleading the Portuguese. The CDS has already taken the initiative to create at least one transparency mechanism in captivity. We also propose now that the funds for vocational training, at least these, cannot be captivated. With regard to late payments of hospitals, we will propose a payment plan so that they are no longer the patients to pay for the wrong government choices. We now challenge the Minister of Finance, who announced here that the children will be EUR 1156 million, EUR 600 million below what is calculated by UTAO, namely whether it is available to enter this value in the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u199	He understands, Mr Minister, as he also said in 2017 that children would be EUR 1423 million, but UTAO estimates them in EUR 1881 million, EUR 300 million above what Mr said in doubt I would rather believe in UTAO. And so with caution, I want to know if it's available to record these numbers in the Budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the suspicion that this coalition of power looks at the private initiative, entrepreneurship and social mobility falls into the eye of each chapter of the Budget. They're the forgotten ones of management. This is the unexplained death decreed for the simplified system of self-employed workers, which is no longer in practice than an increase in taxes for many individual entrepreneurs and the green receipt. Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs said in an interview: « My lawyers know that I am right». I do not think they will know, and I am sure that many and many farmers, who are not colleagues, will certainly pay more taxes if this amendment goes ahead, know that the government has no reason to pursue them. [[CDS-PP applause.]] For the PS, the PCP and the Block, the only acceptable form of private initiative is to be a worker on behalf of others, all the more is suspected and, as such, must be taxed and hampered by all possible means. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment has no point where it is caught and it is not Mr Prime Minister's excuses that will make it acceptable. The CDS shall propose its elimination or at least the option for these workers, between the new regime and the old one. in the same way that they distrust companies and do not believe in their importance in economic growth, they are practically absent from the articulate we are discussing today, are the poor parent of a Budget who only cares about the maintenance of power in the present and forgets the need to create wealth that can be distributed in the future. The CDS will submit proposals to address this failure. This is the case with the proposal to lower the IRC rate by 2 percentage points, which will allow us to resume the path of making our companies taxing competitive from a European point of view. We will resume our proposal for investment tax supercredit and propose the reduction of the minimum limit of the CFP ( special payment on account ). We will not forget the great increase in taxes on petrol and gasoline, promoted in 2016 and always maintained, and which is unfair to businesses, people and families; we will also propose their elimination. According to the estimates by UTAO, the government's fiscal gain in 2016 with the fuels was EUR 248 million, the same government that found it normal to lose EUR 242 million in asset revaluation, better known as the « tax stock » of how many large companies stand out from EDP. Here too the CDS proposals demonstrate a different path, an alternative path, a path that would benefit all companies and not just a few. This budget mistrusts private initiative and makes it more difficult to progress and rise in life. We defend a simple IRS that stimulates social mobility and is sensitive to the size of the family. We therefore believe that a sign should be given in the taxation of extraordinary hours so that, when someone works more and makes an additional effort to increase income, the State does not take advantage of this effort. We also know that the IRS should reflect the reality of people's contribution capacity and, as such, families with dependent children should be treated differently. It is an idea that everyone today seems to share, but that the CDS defended for 10 years without PS, Left Block or PCP seem to be convinced, only with the introduction of the family quotient have agreed to this reality and only because they persist in wanting not to restore this measure, which already has evidence given in France. In fact, when applied in Portugal it meant a drop of IRS of almost 450 million euros and it made itself felt at all levels, contrary to what they repeatedly say. We also hope that our proposal for the deduction of nursing expenses and other auxiliary services for families who care for elderly and confined patients, which is of the most elementary justice, can finally be approved for more than half an hour, which was the time during which the measure was approved in the past discussion of the Budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a budget that is suspicious of the private initiative and of those who want to make progress in life. It is a Budget that hides, behind an illusion discourse, a reality of cuts and that, instead of a growth strategy, presents only a tactic of maintaining power. The CDS presents an alternative, with strategy, with confidence in people and proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u200	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Yesterday we started discussing the State budget for 2018. It is a speech budget and it is a budget that consolidates the alternative, the policy alternative and the alternative of results. It is a speech budget, because it fulfils, again, all the commitments it has made. It fulfils the commitments made to the Portuguese, fulfils the commitments made to the majority of the government and fulfils the commitments made in public finances, whether in deficit or in debt. To achieve this is now an important structural reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a proposal for a State Budget that consolidates the alternative, because it shows that this alternative exists, that it is in progress and that, as long as this leaves the opposition frustrated and disoriented, it works. It works for the benefit of Portuguese, works for the benefit of a country that wants to be fairer, more prosperous and more supportive. The Portuguese live better today. Employment is growing, there are 268 000 jobs created since December 2015 and it guarantees us the Observer who exceeds the numbers given by the government. The economy grows above the European average and investment increases at the highest rate in recent years. The confidence of Portuguese families reaches maximums, the low deficit and presents-CL will be, for the third consecutive year, as the lowest deficit of Portuguese democracy. The debt has dropped in 2017 and will fall again in 2018. They are good news for Portuguese and good news for Portugal. As much as the opposition does not like, we are even faced with a fairer alternative for Portuguese and, much better, for Portugal, for Portugal of the present and, above all, for Portugal that we are building for the future. Those who think that it is possible to mobilise Portuguese people to build the future without valuing their incomes and improving their living conditions and who, in the name of an atavistic conception of competitiveness, think that wages are only a cost and the rights of Portuguese people are an obstacle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The future is built with the Portuguese, not against the Portuguese. This was the word given by the PS and, for the third time, in three Budgets, this has been the word honored. This is, I repeat, a speech budget, a speech budget for those who live in your salary. Whether by increasing the steps of IRS, increasing its progressiveity, either by the end of the overtax, or by increasing the minimum of existence, or by extending the immeasurability of wages to category B taxpayers, the families will have more income available and their distribution will be fairer. It's a speech budget for pensioners. All pensioners will see their pensions increased, ensuring the increase or maintenance of their purchasing power, either by updating the value of pensions based on GDP and inflation, or by the extraordinary update of pensions. It is a speech budget for people with disabilities, through the full realization of the social provision of inclusion. It is a speech budget for families with children or who want to have children, either through the strengthening of the family allowance, which is again strengthened, thus ensuring more support for each year, for more years—for the first three years of life—and covering more families, either by the extension of the programme of free school textbooks for students of the 2. the cycle. It is a speech budget for public servants, who will see, at the end of seven years, their careers frozen and will therefore have a career perspective again. It is a speech budget because it scrupulously fulfills the Government's programme and shows again that it is possible to live better in Portugal, maintaining budgetary rigour and discipline. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the opposition, whoever lives from his salary, who is a pensioner or retired, who has a disability or disability, who has children or who wants to have children, or who is a public official, is part of a clientele. « Clientlas», say PSD and CDS! The overwhelming majority of Portuguese is therefore a clientele. If the customer word is insulting when applied to this Budget, it is quite useful to remember, after all, what would be the alternative of the opposition and what their customers would now be. PSD and CDS have said that they should not be judged for what they did but, yes, for what they would have done if they remained in the government. Let us therefore do this favor to the opposition. The same opposition that, in 2016, 2017 and now again in the 2018 Budget, speaks in austerity to the left, which complains of huge increases in taxes and says that they give with one hand and take the other, promised more taxes than those we actually had and are expected to have in each of these years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, the opposition which claims gross increases in taxes, obviously imaginary by this government, promised and committed itself to higher taxes and, above all, to much less fair taxes. If we don't see: PSD and CDS predict that the tax burden in 2016, 2017 and 2018 was always higher and more unfair than they now say is excessive and unsustainable. Yes, PSD and CDS promised a tax burden that would always be higher than the current government. In 2016, they provided a higher tax burden of EUR 1300 million ; in 2017, it would be higher than EUR 570 million, and in 2018, it would be higher than EUR 380 million. in all, it would be more than EUR 2250 million of taxes in three years. Curiously, and now we hear the CDS by the voice of Cecilia Meireles, the difference in this tax burden is practically all in indirect taxes. Yes, in indirect taxes! Comparing the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, we are talking about a difference of 1900 million euros. It should be remembered that PSD and CDS would increase VAT in 2016. Yes, it would increase VAT in 2016 by going from 23 % to 23 %, 25 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u202	What? Have you lost your mind?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u203	What?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u204	Look at your stability program! I've seen that they don't know him, but UTAO, in the report he published, has well discriminated against what they wanted to inflict on Portuguese in 2016, 2017 and 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But he didn't stay here. It wasn't just the increase in VAT! They would also increase TSU for workers by 0, 2 percentage points and increase, as they have always increased, indirect taxes with certainly higher inflation updates. The same parties who argue against the Coca-Cola rate, against salt or against the increase in seal tax in consumer credit operations, or even though they say that tax on tax-valued property of more than 600 000 € is a brutal attack on the middle class, these same parties would increase VAT, increase TSU, taxes that this government either maintained or lowered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] the IRS is what we know: the overtax would still be in force in 2020 and the steps would not be changed. It would only download the IRC to the largest companies every year and finish the contribution on the energy sector. in the middle of a very strong growth in the sale of buildings, especially of high value, PSD and CDS wanted to end the IMT, which is a measure that, in the current context, lacks any economic rationality and is even of enormous injustice. That is, PSD and CDS not only promised a higher volume of taxes, as they promised less, much less, fiscal justice. Apart from the tax side, there would not be all those measures which PSD and CDS say correspond to a dark increase in the weight of the State — which simply does not exist, it is said. That is, we would pay more taxes, the tax system would be more unfair and pensions would remain frozen, some again being cut; there would be neither increase nor temporary extension of the family allowance; cuts in the CSI and CSI would be intact; social benefits for inclusion (PSI) would not be created; there would be no defrosting of careers; school textbooks would not be free and out there... There would be more unfair taxes and taxes, less wages, lower pensions, less social protection, worse public school, worse health, less employment. We would have a poorer and less cohesive country. This was the depressing alternative promised by PSD and CDS. [[P.S. and BE Mariana Mortagua's deputy.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This budget is part of the good results of policies that have been implemented since the end of 2015, giving them continuity and deepening them. This is the third budget which, by consolidating and deepening the alternative, contributes to a present and to a more just, more coherent and therefore more sustainable future, a present and a future where we do not have to choose between Portuguese families and the fulfilment of the budgetary goals, a present and a future where we do not have to choose between mobilising and investing in young people and respecting those who have worked all their lives and today live in their pension, a present and a future where public officials are not stigmatized, much less attempts are made to promote the conflict between public and private workers. [[P.S. and BE Mariana Mortagua's deputy.]] Not because everything can be done but because there is a political will, the Socialist Party and this parliamentary majority, to do more and to do better. This was the case in 2016. The numbers prove that it will be so in 2017 and will be so again in 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u205	As the Bureau does not record any registration for requests for clarification to Mr João Galamba, it has the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u206	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I remember from a statement that the former Prime Minister of the PSD/CDS government made, more or less in the middle of the previous mandate, and that it was: "do not think the Portuguese that wages will again be what they were in 2011". I believe that this sentence and others that have been said by various members of the government and the majority PSD/CDS were all quite enlightening about the future, the saying that the PSD and CDS would like to build for the country, and about the measures announced as transitional because of the troika but that, despite the troika gone, they continued, because they were ultimately measures to become definitive. The cuts in wages were therefore to continue and in relation to the court in pensions, which at least was announced to the European Union of EUR 600 million, there was never transparency to affirm the true meaning of this court that was effectively announced. The brutal increase in direct and indirect taxes by now was in fact to continue. This was the future they wanted to build. They talk about concern with companies, forgetting that, in particular, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises would be liquidated by this actual theft that they were making to the Portuguese portfolio and that when Portuguese have less purchasing power these companies are affected in their production and market. But PSD and CDS don't want to know that. in fact, they made it clear, also during their course in the previous government, that their service was not to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, nor to the economy of the country, but to large companies, to large economic groups...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u207	He voted for EDP!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u208	So, once they had a little break, what they did was to end the extraordinary contribution of the banking sector and it was already announced, in the short term, to liquidate the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector. The plan was to bring down the IRC to large companies every year and, therefore, the service to large economic groups and large companies was done. The rest, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and CDS, Portuguese in general and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises were not part of your concerns. They were, moreover, a means used to serve your great objectives...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u209	If you accuse PSD and CDS, why don't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u210	...and the big economic groups. Fortunately, this cycle was broken and the Greens are, of course, proud to contribute to its breakdown. Now, it's obvious that you and Mr. Members do not like state budgets that can effectively serve Portuguese and the generality of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u211	It looks like an end of the year party!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u212	They don't like it! Moreover, this is proof that there was an alternative policy that could be pursued but that you said there was no, because you felt that all this was inevitable. It was not inevitable, because in fact this is made of political options. The State budgets actually translate political options. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is precisely because of this that the Greens believe that, when we have great national objectives, they should be effectively translated, transparently, into the state budgets. On the subject of climate change — which I hope is now a national objective of all parliamentary groups — it is, in fact, necessary for the State budget to translate mitigation and adaptation measures into this phenomenon. It is in this sense that the Greens, as a specialist, will propose tax benefits to micro-production of energy, in particular to solar, which is, in fact, quite under-utilized in our country, to encourage the production of that kind of energy. That is also why the Greens will continue, as a specialist, to carry out an improved route of investment in rail, which is a transport that responds, at the environmental level, to the challenge posed by climate change because it has very little greenhouse gas emissions, and is still seeking to create measures to encourage the use of collective transport. I would like to highlight here the fact that I am pleased by the Prime Minister yesterday that he has guaranteed the Government's openness to this fact, in this State budget, to approve a proposal from the Greens on the resumption of the 4 /NP 18 without a condition of resources. We also consider it important for the Public Administration to set an example at the level of the electric car fleet.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u213	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u214	We also consider the exemption from ISP in electroproduction from coal relevant. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need adaptation measures and, in these measures, strengthening the surveillance of our forests is crucial.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u215	Mrs. Deputy, today tolerance is null. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u216	All right, Mr. President. The Greens are actually going to put forward very concrete proposals for effective surveillance and our territory and our population are thus more secure. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u217	Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u218	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Prime Minister, the Socialist Party, Mr. João Galamba and the parties of the parliamentary majority may try to wrap up this pink-cellophane budget that cannot in any way hide its true nature. The true nature of this Budget is that of an ideological budget, to think about management and not in the country, to think about maintaining power and not in Portuguese and Portugal. This is a Budget that pursues a wrong path and pursues an electoral path. This is a Budget that gives, yes, Mr. João Galamba, blessings to the customers on the radical left and leaves bills in the medium and long term for those who come to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u219	You made a shine on the Web Summit! That's where I was making a glow!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u220	Mr. João Oliveira, I know this is disturbing, but you will let me continue my speech. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Above all, it is a budget that turns its back on businesses and the economy, nothing is positive to encourage economic growth, exports, investment, competitiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u221	That's why they're falling! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u222	It is a Budget that increases the tax burden and continues not to bring stability that is fundamental to the country and the national economy to be more competitive. In fact, fuel and a number of other direct and indirect taxes are a good example of this. The government has promised fiscal neutrality, and has not fulfilled, in respect of fuels and now again shoots on everything that moves: it is in local housing, it is in spirit drinks, it is in sugar, it is in salt. It is even important to say that this is a light government. It's light in the budget and political responsibility. This is a government that cuts into public investment. Yes, he cuts into public investment, because he keeps budgeting what he doesn't do. In addition, in infrastructure and transport during 2016 and 2017, we assisted the Minister to announce every week new investments, new ventures and, at the same time, to cut, by means of final captivating and cuts, in the budgets of the Infrastructures of Portugal and other institutions and not to achieve what he had promised and with which he had committed himself to the Country. But as if that were not enough, the government has been announcing in recent weeks a very important new step in the reprogramming of Portugal 2020 : withdrawing from businesses, the economy almost EUR 1000 million to pay for the expenditure of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. Take a good look, ladies. Members, this is to seek money from regional programmes, from the competitiveness agenda, to ensure not only the financing of the Ministry of Education, from vocational courses, but also a set of employment support measures, thus not only seeking to withdraw money from the convergence regions, such as the European Social Fund and, above all, to withdraw from the convergence regions to invest in capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u223	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u224	I know, Mr Minister, you have said no, but the pure and harsh truth is the same: you announce to the social partners in Brussels something completely different; to the National Association of Municipalities says that you will reprogram Portugal 2020 in favour of local authorities, but at the same time you tell your Social Security colleague that you will pay for the shortcomings already in the European Social Fund to continue to lower the deficit and continue to finance current expenditure from the Ministry of Social Security and the Ministry of Education. This is the truth and it's a shame. I hope that the parties that support the government, the parties of the parliamentary majority, at a time when the government talks about territorial cohesion and promises more money to the convergence regions, denounce with all vehementness, criticise and vote against all these measures which, of course, will only once again create conditions for reducing territorial cohesion, taking money to the economy, taking money to the convergence regions in Lisbon and for the current expenditure of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Security. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u225	How many courts have you closed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u226	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of this period of debate. Let's interrupt the work and start-CL - we'll stop them at 3 p.m. [[It was 13 hours and 24 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is reopened. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] We will begin the final phase of the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein.os 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. It will, as you know, follow a phase in which the debate will be closed, which will last only 102 minutes — it may last less, no more — and then we will proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who do the favor of opening the galleries. To resume the debate, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, José António Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2018 Budget is a Social State Strengthening Budget, clear and unequivocally reinforcing social protection. Strengthening which, for us, needs to be understood in its two fundamental dimensions: improving the effectiveness of public policies and defending their sustainability. Social policies — perhaps no other — require this double criterion of credibility: improving the living and well-being of citizens, especially the most fragile, and ensuring a horizon of stability and security in the medium and long term. But this demanding and complex construction depends heavily on the implementation of the first pillar of all social policies: job creation, reduction of unemployment and confidence in the development of the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the data, from this point of view, are indisputable and resist any discomfort of opposition. Since December 2015, employment has increased 227 000 net jobs;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... unemployment has its lowest value since 2004 and the unemployment rate has its lowest value since June 2008. for the first time since 2008, the unemployment rate was lower than the euro area average in June 2017 ; young unemployment was set at 24, 8 % in August 2009 ; the long-term unemployment rate was higher than two percentage points in the last known quarter in the 5, 2 % in just one year. The employment created in the last year was mostly long-term employment, corresponding to this classification of 'unterm employment' over 90 % of the net job creation of workers on behalf of others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These employment data, which are curiously forgotten by this opposition, are clearly the result of new options, new policies, and a new confidence. They are the most important result of an indisputable change and are the strongest sign that we are taking a new path. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is this employment framework that feeds and promotes a policy for the progressive improvement of social policies, social policies that correspond to choices and priorities in strengthening policies for families and children. In 2018, family allowance reform will continue, focusing resources on children up to 3 years of age and on young families. In 2018, a child from 12 to 36 months old, paragraph 1. the escalation of the family allowance, will receive from annual subscription more € 785 than in 2016,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and this step corresponds to 35 300 children; for the 2. the step, this increase will be of 648 € per year and from it will benefit more than 36 000 children; it will be of 485 € for the 3. the step, corresponding to more than 27 000 beneficiaries and the recovery of the 4. the step corresponds in 2018 to a payment of €402 annually and it will benefit about 23 000 children. More than 120,000 children with a strong increase in redistributive policies are the result, they and their families, of a new social policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some will say that these are not structural reforms. Maybe not. For those who have cut, by more than 40%, support for the poorest children and young people in our country this increase may not be a structural reform. But no, it is not a question of whether or not there are reforms, but of knowing what are the choices of the reforms to be implemented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is one of our choices, to concentrate the resources where they are most decisive, in children and young families with children. This is our choice. But for the government and for the majority, choices for change are not reduced here. This year, in 2017, on October 16, 13 129 citizens received social benefits for the first time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are the former beneficiaries of the monthly life support paid by social security. Six percent of these beneficiaries had an increase of 24 % in their benefits, corresponding to more than €51 per month; for 94 % of them the update represents an increase of 35 %, i.e. more €68, 98 per month. This is a change, these are the first steps of the new social benefit for inclusion that will take place in 2018, with a strengthening of resources that will be around the EUR 85 million. Some will say that this is not a structural reform. That is not our vision, nor will it certainly be the vision of its thousands of beneficiaries. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2018 Budget will provide financial support to the continuation of a pension policy other than that which the parties on the right defend. With the automatic updating of pensions, which fulfils the law and thus ensures the real growth of pension value, about 2, 8 million pensioners will be reached, with an increase in pension expenditure, only for this valuation, of about EUR 350 million, and with an extraordinary increase, in August, for the recovery of the value of lower pensions, or with the recovery of pensioners with long careers, allowing them to reform from 60 years without any penalty. And all this without jeopardizing the continuation of the recovery of the stability of social security systems, because the contribution revenue will continue to grow above the contribution expenditure. This is to manage the social security system with a sense of balance between generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This year and for the first time since 2012, the pension scheme, the contribution scheme, will dispense any extraordinary transfer of the State budget, which in the 2017 budget was still EUR 430 million but which reached more than EUR 1200 million in 2013 and 2014. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will not be a structural reform but it is a change of reformist management, with decisive value for the defence of pensions, credibility and sustainability of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a change of time. Just over two years ago, the right, in chorus, argued that social security needed a cut in pension payments of more than EUR 400 million and more revenue to reach such well-known EUR 600 million. And because memory counts, it is worth remembering that this proposal was made and was rejected by the Constitutional Court. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was made without a voice of refusal that stood out in the opposition parties today, without a voice of divergence. This is actually another time. We heard yesterday devalue the end of the extraordinary transfer to social security. 'After all' — Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque said — 'the government also transfers a share of IRC to social security'. Only the ignorance or the most common demagogy explain this statement. I repeat: only the ignorance or the most common demagogy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] [[It's the same thing!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u228	No, it is not the same: extraordinary transfers were intended to finance the current expenditure of contribution social benefits. The provision of IRC corresponds to a strategic diversification of the financing of social security, in full to the Financial Stabilisation Fund and not to current expenditure, for the future and not for the present. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the right cannot see a structural reform even when it comes into your eyes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] This, yes, is a strategic commitment of high scope, such as strengthening support for social equipment, with the coverage of more 5700 places realized in 2017 and which will be reproduced in 2018, such as strengthening support for schooling and pre-schooling, such as strengthening instruments to support school success, such as strengthening the frameworks in the National Health Service. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to believe that the partial recovery of income and rights in public administration is at the expense of the quality of public services. What a narrow and preconceived view! Open... Only those who do not know the reality of public services can ignore how this recovery has fed the quality of service performance, even in situations of enormous shortage, that we still live. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have experienced the process of reintegration into social security of hundreds of workers dispensed by unnecessaries know what I am talking about,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... you know that this path of dignity and respect is not contradictory with demands and rigour. On the contrary, this is a path that has to be well thought out, well evaluated and is a path that cannot be just by some, under the penalty of not being by anyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this must be our way. This is the way of the budget proposal we are discussing today. This is a budget of choices and commitments, a commitment between competitiveness, employment and social cohesion, a commitment between our European membership and the defence of the interests of women and men in our country, a renewed commitment between generations and even between different views on the balance of policies. But it is always the choices that move us away from us and it is the choices that approach us too. It is in the exercise of choices, it is in the affirmation of will that differences turn into a path, without needing to cease being differences. This is what the right doesn't understand or fear to understand. in this choice that this Budget represents are those that do not give up the Republican values of public service in school, health, social protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this choice are those who do not believe that impoverishment is a way for a greater common good. It is based on this choice that we are convinced to be the choice of the vast majority of Portuguese and Portuguese, which is being built this Budget, a Budget for the vast majority of the Portuguese people. That's why we're here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u229	Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the Bureau registered 10 Mr. Members of the PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP, to request clarifications. For the first request for clarification, Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, Minister Vieira da Silva, there is an eternal desire for any man who can live twice — to be able to live twice, Minister. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Members' laughs.]] Mr. Minister just made an intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u231	Magnificent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u232	Say the Socrates pupil!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u233	... Magnificent in the matter of provocation, arrogance and even insult. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u234	That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u235	Mr Minister, we have known each other for many years, we have been discussing these for many years — the Minister for Foreign Affairs is already laughing —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u236	It's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u237	... and I want to tell you something: in 2010, you were Minister, remember?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u238	This is the 2018 Budget, man! It's been eight years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u239	Let's hear it! Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u240	Ex.a. was a minister and provokes us to say that employment data are good and always forgotten on the right. Mr Minister, but if we were to create the legislative conditions for having these results in employment, how could we forget? Oh, my God! How? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS laughter.]] It was we who relaunched the job, that you had to fall, down, in 2010 and 2011! How can we be forgotten, Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u241	That's a good question! That's an excellent question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u242	We can't! Mr Minister, you mentioned the increase in family allowance, with which we are very pleased. We're very pleased! Now, Minister, tell me one thing: do you remember the 2010 decree when you were a minister, who cut the family allowance? It was in 2010, remember? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u243	Well remembered! Who created conditions to go back?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u244	Forget it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u245	Mr. Minister is a challenger! He's a challenger!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u246	But you're so hot!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u247	Now, another provocation: increases in pensions. We like that there are increases in pensions. We like that there are increases in pensions! [[PS protests.]] In fact, Mr Minister, who is a man who knows a great deal of social security, will agree with me on the following: if there was an extraordinary increase in pensions, which is remarkable in our democracy, it was in 1990 with the creation of the holiday allowance for pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u248	Look what you've been looking for!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u249	It's already the year 1990!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u250	Mr Minister, see, we agree with the increase in pensions. But tell me one thing: you were a minister when, in 2010 in the 2011 Budget, you decided to freeze all pensions, even lower pensions, do you remember? Oh, my God! Do you remember, Minister? Oh, my God! You're a challenger! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u251	Man, talk about this budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u252	We agree with the increase in pensions,... [[Protests by PS Member João Galamba and BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] ... we agree with the ordinary regular increase, which is in the law, of pensions. We agree! Mr President, we think that it is a long time to make this ordinary increase in pensions. [[Laughter and protests of PS, BE and PCP.]] It took a long time, a long time. And it is worth doing a bit of history, because the ordinary increase in pensions was in accordance with a law proposed in this Parliament by you in 2006, was suspended in 2009 — in 2009 it was suspended! — and then there was no ordinary increase in pensions. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u253	But that was no reason to make the cuts they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u254	Now there are and we are satisfied! But, Minister, are we in a position to maintain this ordinary increase in pensions that the law determines? This is the first question. The second question has to do with the following: V. Ex.a is increasing pensions, largely because the country that broke into bankruptcy in 2011 re-emerged and was able to clean up its public finances in 2015. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u255	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u256	And after the bankruptcy, new cut! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u257	We also agree with the extraordinary increase in pensions. We agree too! We do not agree with one aspect, which is gentle, gentle — I am not saying that the Minister is gentle, the increase is gentle — which is the increase to be only in August. Why in August? Why in August? Oh, my God! this year, 2017, was in August, eve of elections in 2018 there may be no elections – let's see! — but it is for us to get used to so that, in 2019, on the eve of legislative elections, there is the increase in August! [[PSD applause.]] [[Now, now! Mangrove!]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u258	Transparency? Oh, my God! There is no transparency! By the way, Minister, justice is what pensions have to promote. Mr Minister, you have already tried to explain this to me once but I think it has not been well explained and perhaps the people deserve an explanation: why do lower pensions have the lowest increase and lower pensions, a little above the others, have a higher increase? That is, minimum pensions have 6 € of extraordinary increase in August, and the others have an increase of 10 €. Mr Minister, don't you think this is a deep injustice? Oh, my God! [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u259	It's socialism working!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u260	Mr Minister, about the future, we believe that something must be done quickly so that social security does not have a serious problem,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u261	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u262	...because they say VV. Ex. that from here to 6, 7 or 8 years there may be an imbalanced clock bomb of the pension welfare system. We also agree that there is this diversification of funding sources. There is no problem, as there is also transparency, because it has not yet been explained because in the 2017 Budget they promised 160 million euros from the additional IMI (municipal property tax) and, after all, it is only 50 million. Where did the other 110 million be lost? Let's see how this is! It is very important that the social security fund, the reserve that will last the pensions for a few more decades, be strong. Now, another question, Minister : then, because you do not comply with the law that you yourself have made, the law that lays down in Article 91. the, what must be an annual transfer of workers' contributions? Why does it not then strengthen the Financial Stabilisation Fund? Since you are in such abundance, because you are in such goodness, because you do not strengthen this reserve, this fund, transferring part of the contributions from the workers, according to the law that you have made? So we guarantee pensions for the future, so we guarantee pensions for those who are currently discounted and also have a right, so we guarantee the future and not just look at the present, for what is the political myopia of this government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u263	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u264	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, about the history of living twice, only the knowledge of cinema, perhaps that was part of that debate on culture policy. We have a life and we answer it: I answer for myself and you answer for yours, your positions are known and mine are known. That is what we are debating, everything else is a turning point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u265	In 2011, even the essential has gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u266	Mr President, I will not compare cuts, I will not compare cuts or freezes, I will not compare pasts, because this would be too dramatic for the right benches. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I would have to talk about the cut-off of pensions, wages, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, all social benefits, the cut-off of the IRS (social income of inclusion) for children. I'd have to talk about a lot! [[PSD protests.]] But let's talk about something else, Mr President, about the proposals on the right—I don't want to talk about what the right did when I was in government anymore.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u267	PSD has a name!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u268	On the right hand hand side, the PSD and the CDS presented a programme that was for this legislature, they did so in the Stability Programme sent there to the European Commission by May 2015. And it is worth remembering, because we are not talking about past policies, we are talking about what you want to do now! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u269	We're talking about what you guys wanted to do in this setting! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And look, Mr, it is very simple: you have even before — this conversation has come far above — an even more favourable external environment, the relevant external demand was greater than that which has been achieved, but your forecasts for the unemployment rate in 2018 were 11, 6 %. It was 11, 6 % unemployment against the 8, 6 % of this budget proposal — three percentage points, 150 000 people! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because it was a different path and because in this proposal of the Stability Programme there was the matrix, the essence of your proposal about social security, which was very simple: it was the cut-off of paid pensions, with another name, the extraordinary contribution of solidarity, which was plunged by the Constitutional Court. It's there written, with another name, that they wanted to do the same! And they all agreed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Everyone in that bench agreed: it was necessary to cut the pension payments. We are improving sustainability and we are raising pensions,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with justice, with equity and with vision of the future. That's our way and we're not going to drift away from him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u270	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u271	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u272	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u273	If it's an interrogation...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u274	That will be the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u275	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u276	Mr President, we have just heard Mr Social Security say for the last time to the Plenary that the Stability Programme that the previous Government sent to Brussels provided a cut of EUR 600 million in paid pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u277	By the way, I didn't say the value!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u278	I would like to ask Mr President, through you, to ask the Minister for Social Security to distribute the document where this appears. Because, Mr. President, I want to tell you that if this did not exist in the Stability Programme,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u279	Mr President, this is not an appeal to the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u280	...then, Mr. Minister of Social Security's word is zero! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u281	Mr President, this is not an appeal to the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u282	It's not worth everything! Is everything all right? Oh, my God! It's not worth everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u283	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I understand the political debates, especially at the moment when they are most open, but what you did was not an appeal to the Bureau. Let's continue with our work. To request clarification from the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the Socialist Party now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, Minister Vieira da Silva, are here today, as yesterday, to discuss the third State budget for the third year of this legislature. Faced with the governance we had during the years PSD / CDS, this is in itself a novelty. We did not have any amending budgets, we did not have any deviations and we do not have any unconstitutionality. Our key word is even to meet: meet our goals, fulfill our obligations and comply with our national impoverishment programme. But we did it because we only did exactly the opposite of what the right did and, with that, we achieved exactly better results for the whole country. Mr Adam Silva, who apparently, at least this afternoon, seems to agree with all our main income recovery, higher pensions, higher wages, higher subsidies, made a little intervention there RTP Memory, focusing more on the years 2010 and forgetting the years 2011 and 2015. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] We understand why. But you have an opportunity—it may be with an appeal to the Bureau or otherwise—to explain, if you agree with everything, because the PSD voted against the increases in pensions, against the increases in wages, against the increases in payments, against all these measures of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We understand how these measures cost you. Closed in an ideological bubble, they wanted to be right when reality has lied to you and continues to deny you. The former Prime Minister said he voted in the left-wing parliamentary parties if we did what we proposed and if at the end the accounts were to beat certain. We therefore support the current majority. But there is more: the former Minister of Finance, who is back there, at the last bench, but who yesterday intervened in this debate, said that it was arithmetically impossible, I repeat, arithmetically impossible to meet the goals of the deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u285	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u286	But arithmetically impossible it was even that the Portuguese continued to live with the cuts that you imposed on them at the end of every month. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We not only meet the goals as we do not need any artificial simulator, on the eve of the elections, to return the overtax, to lower taxes, to increase wages, to increase pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u287	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u288	...to restore holidays, to stop the dismantling of the social state and to dignify the country. It was not an arithmetic issue, it was a question of political options. [[Congrats from PS MP Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] For most Portuguese, ours are right and yours are wrong. You were wrong! This path of change that this Budget has continued to resist various prophecies on the right, from divisions of the left parliamentary parties, prophecies about the coming of the devil, about rating agencies, about problems in Europe, about investors' mistrust, about consumer confidence, about the fall in revenue, about the evolution of macroeconomic indicators. For today, in the debate on the third State budget, we have to tell you that, like what they did when they were government, you continue to fail all your forecasts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The State budget is a political instrument, not an accounting budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u289	Is paying the accounts political? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u290	Debating the State budget is, as Mr Minister here has done, talking to people or, as he calls it, customers. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] It is through the priorities we have entered into in the Budget that we realize our vision for the country, that we dispute with the PSD and the CDS the ideas that want to become dominant in our society, that they want to impose on the Portuguese that structural reforms are synonymous with cuts, that working longer hours is necessarily more productive, that not having labour rights is modern, that trade unions are archaic, that precarious even facilitate employability, that low wages are an inevitability, that the state always manages worse than the private sector, that we have to be poorer to be more competitive. But no, it doesn't have to be that way, it doesn't have to be that way, because in politics there is always an alternative and the success of our alternative means and confirms the defeat of your ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u291	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u292	Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the area under which he protects clearly expresses the political options that we are following. The Minister has already mentioned some of these: the increase in wages, the increase in pensions, the sustainability of public and universal social security, social protection for inclusion, the regime of long-term careers, the extension of all social protection mechanisms, the fight against precariousness, the fight against poverty and child poverty, the increase in family allowances, the extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed, the increase in unemployed couples, among many other measures. The list is very long and these are measures that respond to the country, to people, to the foundation of our political action, which is the defense of dignity, the defense of justice and the defense of social equality. It is simply pathetic that the right does not want to see anything of this and that insists on mantras such as persecution of the private initiative, which we have already heard in almost all interventions, or obstacles to social mobility. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, it was you who plunged the country into the recession, who plunged the country into economic mistrust, thereby damaging private initiative, credit and corporate capitalization. But there is more: above all, it was you who most affected the possibilities of social mobility in our country, a very significant part of our population, dismantling this real social elevator, which is the social state, making unemployment, poverty and exclusion all the more difficult. It was your policies that increased poverty the most in the history of governance and, in particular, poverty among the most vulnerable. While propagandizing as a family friend, the right cut wages, promoted internal shock policies that left Portuguese in limited situations. While talking about exclusion, the right cut the RSI (social income of insertion) to 65 000 children, who certainly lived above their possibilities. In this way, he hypothesized a generation in the most outrage of poverty, which is child poverty. While speaking of support for the elderly, the right cut and freeze pensions and cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly, increasing poverty among the elderly. The criticisms they have made to this Budget reveal that they have learned nothing and therefore we do not recognize you any legitimacy to speak in defense of the private initiative or to speak in defense of social mobility. Your policies have been blocked by the private initiative, they have perpetuated social atavisms, inequalities we have inherited for too many decades, which you consider inevitable and which we consider to be immoral. This distinguishes us in this budget, this is not little in the political differences that we have here. Mr Minister, of what we have heard from the PSD and the CDS, it does not appear, unfortunately, that the risk of partial privatization of social security that they wanted to do already seems to be totally remote from those parties and that they have entered into the CFP (the Stability and Growth Pact) and that they have entered into the accounts of your Government Programme, calling it a ceiling for social security. The criticisms of the Stabilisation Fund, which have already been made this afternoon, show a frightening misunderstanding in the face of mechanisms for diversification of non-contributory sources of social security financing. We know, in fact, that during the wave of austerity of the PSD and CDS, the Fund had a breakdown of forecasts over three decades in relation to the expectation of pension payments. I would like to clarify this House on the estimated impact of the measures envisaged in this area and on the recovery of the deficit in the social security system, which it also referred to in its speech, in a context which demonstrates, as this Budget does, that it does not include cuts or ceilings, it is even because of the quantity and quality of employment that we defend public, universal and cross-border social security for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u293	Mr João Oliveira had requested the floor for an appeal to the Bureau. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u294	Mr President, it is to ask for a document to be distributed to respond to Mr Hugo Soares'request, which is page 39 of the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019, where an impact on the order of 600 million euros in the pension system irrespective of the combination of measures to reduce expenditure or increase revenue. This is the page that confirms that Mr Hugo Soares has a great deal to do with speaking. [[PCP and PS applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u295	You have to explain to me one day that this has to do with the conduct of the work, but, finally, patience! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u296	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u297	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u298	Mr. President, for the same purpose as Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u299	The honourable Member has already made an appeal in this way, he will not do anything else.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u300	Mr President, it is to the extent and in the exercise of the right of contradiction that I ask you to speak. [[PS and PCP protests and PSD counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u301	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u302	Mr President, just to say two things: the ridiculous in politics also kills! Open... [[That's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u303	We asked Minister Vieira da Silva, the PCP came to help,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u304	Sir, will you excuse me...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u305	...and still, he was unable to show where the cut was in the pensions. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u306	Sir, don't make me take your word for it! You will excuse me, but that has nothing to do with an appeal to the Bureau and the honourable Member has already done one! Mr President, this cannot be the case, we cannot trivialize the use of parliamentary figures. You did it, Mr. João Oliveira, and I don't do it anymore! The matter is settled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In response to Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro's request for clarification, the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u307	Mr President, Member, in order to maintain this debate in the field of political debate rather than parliamentary tricks, which are legitimate, I will now use this time to read, in computer support, what the 2015 Stability Programme says.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u308	Tell me where the cuts are! Leia!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u309	It says here that it defines only an obligation to result in a positive impact on the order of 600 million euros on the pension system... [[PSD Protests and PS Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u310	Zero! Your word is zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u311	I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Minister, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u312	Mr President, I hope that time is not counting on me, because it must tell whoever is screaming.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u313	Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u314	It does not take a very long memory to remember that, soon after, it is said that as a technical hypothesis, purely technical, the model that was plunged by the Constitutional Court of Pension Cutting, VAT increase and TSU increase is used. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u315	Read it all! Don't be a liar! Leia! He's lying! You're a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u316	I mean, what's assumed here... [[PSD and CDS-PP Protests and PS Counter-Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u317	Read it all! Be honest!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u318	Mr. President, these debates...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u319	Mr Minister, the time count is interrupted until there are conditions to resume its intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u320	Mr. President, I was asking for some serenity, as I have tried to maintain...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u321	Minister, I ask you to wait a minute. As I said a little ago, I stopped counting time. [[Pause.]] Now, yes, Mr. Minister is in a position to start over. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u322	Mr. President, the CDS bench audibly accused me of being dishonest because in 2015 I said at the time of the 2015 - 2019 Stability Programme that this had been a unanimous position of the parties of the then majority. Mr President, the CDS agrees with a cut of EUR 600 million in pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was said by someone sitting on this bench following the debate of the Stability Programme. It is written here, Mr, don't call me dishonest! It's written here! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, it would be absurd, if it were not tragic, that the benches of the old majority were now trying to deny what was defended clearly and unequivocally by the two parties that are now in opposition. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] All Portuguese know that! This was not our way, we did not cut pension payments; we improved the performance of the system and, with this and the diversification of sources of funding, we increased the sustainability of the social security system. That's something that should leave this whole House a feeling of satisfaction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that it is difficult, that the challenges are tremendous, but we also know that it is possible, without cuts, without taxes, to bring the social security system into a path of sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u323	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not confuse the typical energy of a political struggle of this nature with other types of statements. So I thanked all of you. Members who are included in the comments they make. [[Pause.]] I mean all those gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen to whom my speech is addressed, whatever they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u324	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to request the distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u325	Please, Mrs Deputy, but I ask you to be for objective distribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u326	Mr President, I will distribute objectively, but I have even been quoted and therefore, as you will understand, in order to restore the truth of what the CDS agrees with, it is important that the document in which it is said to be taxically distributed is said that we are talking about EUR 600 million, regardless of the combination between measures to reduce expenditure or increase revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u327	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u328	There is no mention of paid pensions at any time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, yes, it is dishonest to talk about this without mentioning that fact. Continuation of PS's applause. And more, Mr. President: I'd just like to say...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u329	Mrs Cecilia Meireles,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u330	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u331	Mr. Nuno Magalhães, will you excuse me? [[Pause.]] The gentlemen. Do you think that we are either in a position to continue the work? It's just that if we're not, we're not going on. [[Pause.]] Mr Nuno Magalhães, Mrs Cecília Meireles was speaking and, because of the demonstrations — legitimate ones — because they were the milestones of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group — failed to listen. Therefore, I give the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles so that she can intervene again. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u332	Mr President, the words that demonstrate to me the dishonesty of the statement made here, which referred to a cut of pension payments that did not exist and no one defended. The statement is false and dishonest, as evidenced by the distribution of the document. [[PS protests.]] Moreover, Mr President: just because I have been quoted, I have to say that, yes, I have been a part of the government that has taken the troika out of here with great pride.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u333	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u334	Mr Minister, who was part of the government that called the troika and was Minister of Banking Economy, will certainly not teach me or anyone in this House. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u335	Madam Member, that is no longer part of the appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u336	The CDS has 10 minutes and can explain what cuts in expenditure and increases in revenue were!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u337	The honourable Member will be pleased to send the document to the Bureau. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Members, please create conditions for Mr Hugo Soares to intervene. What is the regimental figure you want to invoke, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u338	The one about defending the honor of the bench, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u339	Mr President, I would ask you to identify who and what.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u340	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to defend the honor of the bench, since the Minister has made accusations and charged this bench with facts that are not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u341	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u342	Mr President, I believe that the debate is gaining a tone that does not favor anyone, so I will say very calmly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u343	This is a good portrait of the Portuguese left!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u344	... but, in any case, very determined the following: I challenged the Minister for Social Security to prove to Parliament what he has already said sometimes without account — and not just today, because he has repeated today, reading, where in the stability programme that the previous Government sent to Brussels there was mention of a cut of EUR 600 million in pensions. Then came the PCP in rescue — no one asked the PCP for anything, but very carefully came to help your government, it is part of the rules of the game! - and nothing proved. Worse than that, Mr Social Security has come to read, as I asked you, the Stability Programme and it has been shown to satiety that nowhere at any time is spoken in a court. And in despair, in an attempt that I should not have to tell you again that your word is worth zero, so that I should not tell you again, eyes in the eyes, that your word is worth zero,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u345	Look at the seriousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u346	... Mr. Minister of Social Security, putting in the paper, invented what he wasn't there, invented what he wasn't saying. This is not serious, it does not dignify the parliamentary debate nor does it dignify political life in Portugal! So, Minister, what you have done is indeed very dishonest, that this bench does not accept or let itself be clear. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u347	I assume that the Minister wants to use the floor in response. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u348	Mr. President, of course. It was the PSD bench that called for the defense of honor, because here it was said that the government that was led by the PSD presented a proposal for social security reform, which sent to the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u349	It's happening again!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u350	... with the so-called 'extraordinary contribution of solidarity' which provided for a reduction in pension payments by more than EUR 400 million and an increase in TSU (the single social rate) and VAT (the value added tax) in total of EUR 600 million. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u351	That's not what you said! You're being dishonest again!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u352	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr. Minister finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u353	This was submitted to the Constitutional Court. So the Government of the Republic submits a proposal to be assessed by the Constitutional Court and does not defend it? Is it a theoretical exercise? Is it fun? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] If the PSD asked for the word to say to the Portuguese: "No, we no longer defend the cut-off of paid pensions", I would withdraw everything that I said, because, and yet, the PSD had placed itself on the right side.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u354	Leia, read!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u355	I have read again, and I can read as many quotations as you would like from the former Minister of Finance and leaders of both parties to defend the courting of pensions, even within the framework of the Stability Programme! [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] Even they could have admitted that the court was not so large, that there were other forms, but what was said and went to Brussels in 2016 — the words of the former Minister of Finance — was that the government had saved 600 million euros in the pension system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And he says more, he says that, as a technical hypothesis, he sends the one who was plunged by the Constitutional Court, which cannot be exactly the same, but, to make the accounts, he went like this. And does the honourable Member say that you have never defended the cut-off of paid pensions? How is it possible, in front of this House, after what happened, that they never defended the courting of pensions? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u356	I didn't say that! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u357	They defended the cut and the stability program they built is based on this value. Now you may want to invent another narrative, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is clear: what matters are the political options. [[PSD protests.]] There was a majority who defended cuts in pensions, and who did them, and today there is a majority who defends the improvement of pensions, and who implements them. That is the political truth we are discussing! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u358	Mrs. Members, apparently healed this disagreement — each one maintains its own, but, finally, the episode is healed — we resume the normality of parliamentary work. Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u359	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, this moment of degrading PSD excitement at lunch and CDS trying to get out of photography is a bit degrading. [[Protests from the PSD, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u360	Mr President, you can make the political considerations you understand. The insinuations you make about your fellow Members, an exhilaration after lunch, are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u361	Though they can be true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u362	Wasn't this degrading for everyone? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u363	Mr President, what I wanted to say is that I think this discussion was a bit degrading because we have very specific documents, which we can mention, on the subject we are discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u364	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u365	Sir, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u366	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u367	You use the qualifications you understand and I will never question this from a political point of view. But the honourable Member has made another kind of insinuations which are not acceptable in parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u368	Mr President, you will allow me to continue the speech. Thank you very much. What I wanted to say, Mr President, is that this situation is indeed degrading because we have very specific documents. The 2014 - 2018 Budget Strategy Document, by the authorship of the previous Government, was the one that implemented the cut of EUR 600 million in social security, which went through three measures, which I will read: first, a contribution of sustainability, read, cut, between 2 % and 3, 5 % on the amount of monthly pensions paid, I repeat, in payment, above 1000 €;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u369	Do You Remember? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u370	... second, an increase of 0, 2 percentage points in the worker's contribution, i.e. withdrawing income from the worker; third, an increase in the normal rate of VAT by 0, 25 percentage points.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u371	Did you hear that? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u372	This was the document that they distributed to the Constitutional Court, this was the proposal of the PSD and the CDS for the cut of 600 million euros. And this is the proposal that has been piped. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u373	Calm down, calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u374	It is worth saying that it is reaffirmed in the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019 that this reduction of EUR 600 million in the pension system, which will be made between measures to reduce expenditure and increase revenue. Question : if spending reduction in the pension system is not cutting pensions, then what is it? Oh, my God! Is it making pensioners disappear? Oh, my God! What is it to reduce spending, but to cut pensions? [[Congratulations from BE.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this would be of interest to you if it were a difference over the past. It happens that it is also a divergence about the present. The PSD said today that, after all, it was defending the increase in pensions, but it will vote against the increase in pensions in this Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u375	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u376	The PSD says it agrees with the increase in pensions, but it will vote against the increase in pensions! [[Congratulations from BE.]] That's why, sirs. Members, it is disorientation, it is the total discredit of the Social Democratic Party. The PSD says it is in favour of diversifying funding sources and voted against the luxury real estate tax that it has reverted to the Social Security Financial Stabilization Fund. The PSD speaks of a time bomb in the sustainability of social security, when we know that what called into question the sustainability of social security was the increase in unemployment, the emigration of young people, the precariousness and informalization of work, all factors that contributed to the reduction of contributions to social security and that called into question their balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u377	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u378	And as for the CDS, if we had to talk about irresponsibility and unsustainability of social security, we would talk about the measure of former Minister Mota Soares for green receipts, which was to put 40 % of these workers on a zero scale, to discount on 210 € per month, which means condemning them to poverty pensions and not to have social protection. That, yes, is destroying social security. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We need an opposite policy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u379	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u380	We need economic wisdom, which goes through the enhancement of work, the strengthening of redistribution, the strengthening of social policies and the recovery of income, whether through tax, or by the increase of minimum wage, or by the increase and updating of pensions, or by the strengthening of social policies. This policy proves its results, both in terms of economic growth and in terms of employment and in terms of the sustainability of social security. I won't say we have no problems. We have the precarious job that is created in Portugal, we have wages that are low, we have labour legislation that is still the labour law of troika, PSD and CDS. But we have, in this budget, an increase in pensions. And we value the negotiating effort that has been made and the result of this effort, which is the increase in pensions. However, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a specific question about a group of pensioners, those who in 2014 and 2015 were pushed into early reforms because they had no employment, because they no longer had unemployment benefits and therefore had no income sources. These pensioners are the injured former Minister Mota Soares, who were triplely penalized. They were penalized by the increase in retirement age, by the increase in sustainability factor and by the cuts that were imposed due to the time they were missing for the retirement age. I would like to tell you, Mr Minister, that for these people we need a solidarity supplement that removes them from condemnation to poverty. And I believe that, in this budget, we will have to make it possible to have a solution for these people. That is our commitment, and that is our expectation for discussion, in our specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u381	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u382	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, this is indeed a decisive debate for our present and our future. And it is desirable, it is always desirable, that we do it calmly and seriously. What it is not possible to admit is that there is someone in this House who can assume himself as having the monopoly of the right to call the past. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when you call the past, you call everything! And we're here to discuss the whole past, if necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u383	There's, at the government's bench, the whole bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u384	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to keep quiet so that the Minister can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u385	What is not serious, from a political point of view, is what I am saying, since the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen are very sensitive today — it is not to assume responsibility for the positions taken and for the proposals made. And that was quite clear here today in this debate. Mr Soeiro, the balance of social security, as I have tried to say in my speech, is always a balance between short-term measures and the long-term strategy. I believe that there is a number of pensioners, many of whom are not yet old enough to have access to the solidarity supplement for the elderly, who have retired for various reasons with pensions in advance with high cuts. It is possible to try to study a solution to minimize this impact—and we will -and we will - together— always in the view that the fight against imbalances and social weaknesses can never be turned off from fighting for the construction of solutions that guarantee Portuguese and Portuguese people who can rely on their public pension system. That he has problems, that he faces enormous and unusual challenges, particularly from a demographic point of view, is true, but if we all want, if we all want, if we understand what the Portuguese people want, we can overcome these difficulties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u386	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Minister Vieira da Silva, the Minister did what many Portuguese will think is impossible: he came here to present what he says is a budget with only good news and makes this occasion in a circumstance of crispace and guerilla party that diminishes his position and his way of being in that position, because, in fact, what we have seen here today was a Member of the opposition to the previous government and not a Minister of this Government who wants to discuss his budget. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u388	And we understand that, Minister, because sometimes speaking too much and speaking too loudly allows the elderly to rise and, above all, allow us not to talk about what we do not want to be spoken of. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u389	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u390	And it is the omission that Mr Minister has not said, that the CDS wants to bring to this debate. Mr. Minister, we're back for a year. A year ago, we were here in this House to discuss, when the Left Block « gave a shot» and announced to the country that the State Budget for 2017 was going to bring good news to the self-employed, with the change of the contribution regime. Well, a year later, silence on this matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u391	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u392	A lot of guerrillas, a lot of attacks on the past, a lot of lies, a lot of falsehood, but nothing about what matters! And on the eve of the presentation of this Budget, we saw a lot of news, saying that the Left Block demanded that this, the change of the contribution regime, be closed before the presentation of the Budget. Well, we're already discussing the Budget and this is not yet closed. And what was a very alarming « shooting» seemed to be a « shooting of dry powder ». In fact, and unfortunately other news, already from government members, has come to light, saying that it cannot be ensured that this change to the contribution regime cannot result in an increase in the contribution burden on self-employed workers. In other words, Mr Minister, a very alarming « shot », « shot came out of the culatra ». But the problem is that when we look at this « shooting», the Left Block is no longer there, who are the independent workers there, who will have to bear a greater contribution burden. We are talking about this, Minister, which is what concerns the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u393	Mr President, we have also not heard him talk about productivity, a problem of the greatest importance for the country's future. And the Minister knows very well that, when we spoke here a year ago, the Minister anticipated productivity growth. Well, now the same Minister, the same government expects productivity to decline by 0, 1 % in 2017. Is this a serious problem, or isn't it, Minister? Is this, or not, serious, Minister? Tell us: what measures does the government have to deal with productivity? We could stay here, but unfortunately we are not, Minister. When we look at a minister, we like to see someone who first protects the poorest, someone who promotes employment. We don't want to see ministers here attacking the previous governments, that's enough, Mr. Minister is no longer a member of the opposition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u394	But when we were expecting someone here to defend the promotion of employment, what does the Minister of Labour have to tell us about vocational training?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u395	I should have been here in the other legislature!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u396	Mr Minister, on vocational training, the Government last year ended the implementation of the budget by 60 % of what it had planned and this year, in September, the implementation is 30 %. And we know, Minister, that this government is very quick to react to news—in the face of news and tragedies, it reacts. There must be deaths and fires for the government to show that it is there; you need to see images about discotheques, to close the discotheques. [[PS protests.]] What images does Mr Minister need to see, from professional trainers and economics, to realize that this is a matter of the greatest urgency for our country and that something needs to be done? Mr Minister of Labour, please intervene, please, in favour of vocational training, and hurry to take part in this matter! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u397	Finally, Mr Social Security said here that our choices differ. Yes, you are, Minister. And how can we understand, how can the Portuguese understand that the Minister continues, in the extraordinary updating of pensions, to penalise the lowest pensions of the lowest, stressing the difference between those who receive less and the others? Minister, tell us about this, which is what the country wants to hear, and answer. It defends the poorest and defends those who seek employment and vocational training. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u398	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u399	Mr President, Mr Anacoreta Correia, what you will never find in me is the fear of answering your questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u400	I should have answered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u401	It is when, yesterday, it was said here that the strengthening of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund was the same thing as the transfer of the State budget, which this year ends, to the contribution system, I had to say that this is not true,... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u402	...that this is a gross incorrection. Now, is this attacking the previous government? Oh, my God! Is it to be opposition? Oh, my God! No, it is to restore the truth, it is to defend this budget in what it has to do best: the defense of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Deputy, in fact, the Government is committed — and undertakes this commitment — to present, by the end of this year, a proposal to amend the contribution scheme for self-employed workers. It's a difficult task, we've discussed it. And it is a more difficult task because, unfortunately, today, about half of the self-employed have a reference remuneration, have been pushed into a reference remuneration — i.e. the value which guarantees them social benefits and pensions in the future — as has already been said, of €211. So it is very easy to make politics. So it's very easy to please everyone. But what this is doing is what you criticize: it is pushing spending for the future, that is to say, in future, the State will provide minimum pensions for these thousands of workers, pointing to them with the possibility of having a lower contribution. Our proposal will be a complete proposal, from the point of view of contributions, from the point of view of registering remuneration or income and social protection. And you will have the opportunity to debate in due course. Mr. Deputies, I was waiting on the CDS to hear almost everything. Now, no, Mr. Deputies, it is not in the defense of the poorest that the CDS distinguishes itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u403	Yeah, yeah! He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u404	If so, they had not played a role in some of the toughest and most incomprehensible cuts on the weakest sectors of Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, Mr, I have already justified it last year and I am justifying it again: fairly treating lower pensions is also giving additional value to long-term pensioners who had their minimum frozen pensions for a number of years. That is the reason for justice. You don't understand, and I can do nothing to avoid it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u405	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, we are here today discussing increases in pensions and reforms and the new extraordinary increase, taking another step in the recovery of the purchasing power of the reformees, a matter in which the CFP has struck these years. The persistence of the PCP allowed to enter this Budget extraordinary increases of €6 and €10 per month to €1,6 million reformed, which otherwise would not have these increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u407	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u408	By valuing this step and this measure, we also believe that it is important to go further in social rights: by eliminating the 10% cut in unemployment benefit for all unemployed workers, by fulfilling the Government's commitment to the CFP ; by finding solutions within the long-term contribution careers that correct the injustices that have affected all reformers who have seen their pensions and reforms cut with the application of sustainability factor and moving beyond the steps that have already been taken; by consolidating the extension of the family allowance and making a way that broadens its scope, ensuring that more and more children this right is their right; and by also strengthening the social responses to people with disabilities and their families, in particular by ensuring that the Social Benefit for Inclusion — moreover, whose numbers relating to the first steps and their coverage we had the opportunity to hear today — is an instrument that broadens and deepens social protection. Mr Minister, the increase in pensions and reforms is a matter for which the CFP has been beaten. It is a very meaningful problem in a country where the vast majority of reformers have low pensions, aggravated, indeed, by the increase in the cost of living, but also by the cuts imposed by the PSD Government and the CDS, which, if they were in the government today, would have continued these cuts in the 600 million euros. The extraordinary increase in pensions and reforms provided for in this Budget, taking place in the same terms verified by proposal and insistence of the CFP in 2017, is an important step that we value in this path of recovery of lost purchasing power over several years. We also highlight in this context the importance of being resumed in 2018 the entire payment of the Christmas allowance, putting an end to its dilution in the monthly value of pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u409	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u410	Mr Minister, it is also important to deepen social protection and eliminate injustices, such as the cutting of 10 % in unemployment benefit, covering current benefits, future benefits and those pending. In fact, since the introduction of this cut in 2012 the CFP has submitted proposals for its elimination and its translation in this Budget is of great importance for tens of thousands of unemployed workers, who still today, at the end of six months, are not entitled to 10 % of their social protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u411	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u412	It is also necessary, in the context of long careers, to find answers for workers who, in the past, have been forced to anticipate reform with very strong penalties, as well as for long-term unemployed and those who continue to be penalized when they are reformed in advance, going further than the steps already taken. These are subjects on which the CFP has raised questions and insisted. Mr Minister, it is important to know when the remaining stages of long career valuation will take place and what the Government's willingness to find answers that will correct these highlighted injustices. It is also necessary to provide a comprehensive response to the needs of people with disabilities. The Social Benefit for Inclusion may and should be an important instrument for strengthening the social protection of this active-age group, but should be taken into account the inadequacies of response in this area and cannot, by any means, be sided with either the right to employment or the right to vocational training, education, health, access to necessary treatments and technical assistance. It is necessary to ensure better conditions for the access of persons with disabilities to social protection and also to achieve their right to employment, a fundamental pillar for their autonomy and independence, either in compliance with the quotas provided for in the Public Administration or in access to employment in the private sector. It is necessary to work towards the elimination of architectural barriers. in the previous Budget, on a proposal from the CFP, the commitment of raising the reality of the country in this matter and planning the intervention was entered in. It is essential to know what has been done so far on this very subject. Mr Minister, what is the Government's willingness to find concrete solutions that respond to the set of issues referred to here by the CFP, thus also responding to the expectations created, the aspirations and the needs felt? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u413	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u414	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, as I said recently, the joint task of this majority and the Government is to find the difficult balance between two fundamental messages: that of improving social protection and that of improving the sustainability of the social protection system. They are not two distinct dimensions; one and the other complement each other. That is why we must look at the social security budget as a whole and, as the honourable Member has done, value what are very relevant signs of change in the area of social benefits. I have already referred to some of the aspects of improving pensions, which will increase the purchasing power of the vast majority of pensioners, and could also refer to the corrections made in the social income of insertion, the evolution of the solidarity complement, or — and I think that this aspect deserves more discussion by all of us — the reform, which we are making, in the model of family allowance, concentrating in the most fragile sectors the resources available. It is true that the honourable Member has identified areas that are critical, some have already been approached today, and of course the Government has all the willingness to discuss them, but the debate at this time serves to find solutions for pensioners in more fragile situations or to situations of unemployment protection. And always based on the principle that our path is long, that economic recovery, which has been implemented primarily in employment, still keeps us away from those levels more appropriate to the balance of social protection systems. This work must be continued. Our message and our conviction is that this work can be continued by properly improving social protection, without questioning and questioning our fundamental objective, which is to give a message of sustainability, security and credibility of the social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u415	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the second round of requests for clarification. I recall that in this second round, the Minister will answer together to the five Members. Members registered to request clarification. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u416	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, I ask you why, when Mr Adam Silva said in his speech that the improvements that had occurred, in particular at the level of employment and the reduction of unemployment resulted from policies of the previous Government, there was a whim on the left side of the benches. I'd like to know why. This is because it is indeed the report of the State Budget for 2018 that recognizes that the sustained increase in employment began to occur in 2014. Question : Who was ruling at that time? Whose policies were those? PSD government / CDS! [[PSD applause.]] Finally, there is recognition by the Government that the policies adopted by the previous Government had their positive effects on job creation and the reduction of unemployment. In fact, it is a matter already internationally recognized and we finally see it acknowledged here. That is precisely why I put another question to the Minister, since many of these improvements are naturally due to the reforms that have been made to labour legislation. In order to clarify this bench but, above all, the Portuguese, I ask the Minister: will he maintain these policies that have contributed to increasing employment and to reducing unemployment or will he give in to blackmail and pressure from his coalition partners and, in social consultation, will he reverse everything that has been done in relation to labour matters? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u417	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u418	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, we would like to ask you at the moment two very specific questions concerning matters which also have a budgetary impact and which deal with the debate we have already had on the amount of employment and on the other hand the quality of that same job. from this point of view, we know — and I fear - that the last budgets, this is the third, have taken into account the fight against precariousness, which is important, but we all know that we still have to go a long way in this direction. Therefore, we would like to ask a question about a measure that was, from the outset, in the Socialist Party's programme and has to do with the rate of turnover, which means, in practice, the penalization of companies that resort to precarious work and therefore to bad work practices and which do not correspond to stable links in the workplace. This measure is extremely important and has two advantages: on the one hand, it has the advantage of normalizing, so let us say, the labour relations, the relationship between workers and companies, ending, once and for all, or reducing to the maximum, the precariousness also in private; on the other hand, it has the advantage of allowing a fit for social security itself to a fairly high value. According to the latest accounts of the Ministry of Finance itself, this measure could have a positive impact of around EUR 350 million per year on social security. We therefore ask the Minister about the opening up of the Government to include this measure, which has only advantages for workers but also for social security and, in this way, also for pensioners, pensioners and, overall, for the sustainability of social security. I would also like to ask you, Minister, about the issues of precariousness. We know that the process of regulating State precariouss is under way, and well, PREVPAP. at this stage of the process, we would like to know whether we can give all the workers who have competed in this process the guarantee that there will be no blockage to the implementation of this programme at the stage of the linkage of workers to the budgetary level. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u419	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u420	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, Minister Vieira da Silva, in Article 3. that of the proposed Law on the Big Plan Options for 2018, the first commitment made by the Government, i.e. its first choice, was the qualification of the Portuguese, which placed above the promotion of innovation in the economy, the enhancement of the territory and the modernization of the state. We have spoken several times, quite frankly, about this subject and can statements have even been used such as strengthening school success, the 3,000 post-doctoral contracts in scientific employment — it seems that this year will still be the same. We have heard so many times about these 3000 contracts that look like 15 000 and that any day there are no contracts for the doctors we have in the country, when, in fact, not one has yet been realized. Anyway, the qualification I wanted to talk about now has to do with adult training. In fact, according to the European Commission, although in Portugal the percentage of low-skilled workers has decreased from 61 % in 2011 to 48 % in 2016, our country is actually still far from the European Union average, which is 18 %. And the solution that the Government has repeatedly announced is the Qualifica Programme. In March of this year, Prime Minister said that, and I quote, « today the biggest structural deficit the country has is that of qualifications and Qualification is central to the future of the country, and it must cover some 600 000 people until the end of the legislature ». Mr Prime Minister also stated that, and I quote, "it was a mistake to have invested in adult training and education in recent years". Is that so, Prime Minister? It is that the reports of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training reveal exactly the opposite: in September 2015, even in the previous Government, all training measures covered about 250 000 adults, and in September 2017, in all training measures, 118 000 adults are covered, i.e. less 132 000 people than in 2015. Therefore, according to official statistics, the previous government has put much more emphasis on adult education and training than this government. In fact, it is this government that is increasing the structural deficit of qualifications, so that Mr. Prime Minister said he is the largest in the country. Therefore, not even talking about achieving the goal that you set by 600,000 people in 2019, for now, for 2018, I wonder how the Government intends to reach at least the numbers of the previous government and to comply with its first Grand Option of the Plan for 2018. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u421	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u422	Mr President, Minister, the protection of unemployment can and should be strengthened. The guarantee of the end of the 10% cut-off in unemployment allowance is very important. As long as the CFP has come to an end, however, the rules for the allocation of unemployment benefit remain severe restrictions that need to be exceeded. Recent data from the Inequality Observatory confirm what the CFP has been reporting: since 2011 more than half of the unemployed have no access to unemployment benefit; in August 2017 59 % of the unemployed had no support. The measure of the CFP of extraordinary support for long-term unemployed, approved in the 2016 State Budget and maintained in 2017, should and can be strengthened in 2018. in our country there are thousands of people considered too old to work but too new to retire. It is important to respond effectively to these workers and to go further in strengthening this extraordinary measure of support for the long-term unemployed, whether as regards the number of persons covered or as regards the value of the support that is provided. The evolution of the distribution of wealth in our country translates a scandalous concentration of wealth: 1% of the population has 25% of wealth and 5% of the population accumulates 50% of national wealth. Now, it is precisely to ensure a fairer distribution of wealth, to combat poverty and to dynamize the economy that the rise of the national minimum wage to 600 €, already in 2018, is so important. Employment with rights in the public sector and in the private sector is a development condition of the country. There is no bad precariousness and acceptable precariousness. A permanent job must always correspond to an effective work link and the fight against precariousness must be a daily fight rather than a process that takes place every 20 years. Combating precariousness in public administration and in the private sector should be a principle and practice of every day. There cannot be a process of regularization of precarious links in the Public Administration and, in parallel, in public services and in the business sector of the State persisting in hiring through internships, false green receipts, part-time work and outsourcing, particularly in public school, in the National Health Service, in higher education institutions, in museums, in cultural services, in RTP, in EMEF, among others. The eradication of precariousness in the public and in the private must be a central objective assumed by the State. Mr Minister, respect for the rights of workers requires the repeal of the most serious standards of the Labour Code, but also requires conditions to ensure the supervision of the law. The former Government, PSD / CDS, subjected the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) to non-operation, deliberately withdrawing means and supervisory powers due to the lack of inspectors and other professionals. Strengthening the human and material resources of the Act as well as its competences and those of the Commission for Equal Labour and Employment (ISCED) is an essential guarantee for the protection of workers' rights. The development of the country requires the general increase in wages, the fight against precariousness and the deregulation of working hours. The CFP will not give up all the measures that have resulted in the exploitation of work and the construction of a more just country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u423	To make the last request for clarification, Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u424	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, Mr Minister of Labour, as we have said several times, we fully agree with the paradigm change that means the model and the assumptions of social benefit for inclusion. There are, however, other issues that we will discuss in the context of the parliamentary assessment that the Left Block has requested, which is related to the implementation of the social benefit for inclusion that concerns us. This is the third budget of the State we have discussed and, once again, we have found no significant improvement in the living conditions of people with disabilities and, in particular, of families with smaller disabilities, families who have enormous additional costs resulting from the disresponsibility of the State to the expenses it has to bear. Since the first law of the budget proposed by this Government, the measures that would enable the relief of these costs have been insufficient. The bonus, due to disability, of the family allowance, which was not increased since 2009, increased in 2016, 1, 78 € and, in 2017, 31 cents ; the allowance for assistance from third persons, which was not increased since 2009, had a more generous increase in 2016 of 12, 8 €, which should have continuity in the following years, but which, however, in 2017, was only 51 cents. It is € 101 to guarantee at least 180 hours of assistance, which means a payment of 56 cents per hour. It's a social benefit that seems more like an emola! In addition to these measures, which did not compensate for the increased costs these families have, it was also increased the value of the deduction to IRS collection, a positive measure that does not cover much of these families, because they do not have income for an IRS collection to deduce whatever it is. They promise us now that social benefits for inclusion will improve the living conditions of children and young people with disabilities, but that will only be by the end of 2019. Mr. Minister, then, what about even there? What measures are planned in this Budget to somehow improve the quality of life of these young people and their families? We can't find them! We are confident that we will find in the discussion in the field of expertise the opportunity to adopt measures in this regard. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u425	To answer this set of questions, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u426	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have put to me. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, let's talk about employment! Finally! Finally, let's talk about employment! Madam Member, I am not going to discuss the statistical changes that have occurred over the last 5 years, 10 or 15 years, because I would also have to remind you that, during that period, Portugal has, as never before, reached a rate of 17 % unemployment. After that, he corrected this rate a little bit, but more at the expense of other phenomena than precisely job creation, let it be said! But if we want to discuss public policies as a whole from the point of view of job creation, there is a very simple way to do that, which is to look at what you are proposing, for your goals in 2015 — and I have already quoted them. We can see that your goal for 2018 was that the unemployment rate was 11 %, 6 %, if my memory does not fail. That was your ambition! Now, in this State budget we have entered the 8 %, 6 % for the unemployment rate with net job creation, with employment ever growing more than unemployment, i.e. increasing the active population. Mrs. Deputy, it's all another program! It's a whole other policy! And do not come to say that this policy falls from heaven or that perhaps it falls from the seeds that you have generously cast into the earth in the past. Don't! It is the dynamics of the Portuguese economy based on external competitiveness and domestic demand, which generates more employment, more wealth and also greater social well-being. That was the way you didn't want to go! It was a different course, almost the opposite, with the consequences of unemployment, emigration and the compression of wages. That's the difference! And, Madam Member, you will not ask me, of course, if I do not have confidence in social consultation. I have spent years in social dialogue and all the decisive instruments of social development are, for us, elements that must have a fundamental partner in social dialogue. Mrs Isabel Pires, on the issue of precariousness, I would like to respond in a very clear way: there will be no limitations to all those who, under the law which has been passed here and the guidelines that the Government has given from a technical point of view, have the right to a contract of work with the Public Administration or with the companies included in the State sector. There will be no other limitation than that law itself. This was our position and 2018 will be the year marked by the realization of a combat, I would not say definitive but consequently to the precariousness in the Public Administration. Obviously this is a job that must also be extended to the private sector. Fortunately, we have good signs, because it is already two consecutive quarters in which the largest component of net job creation is the one that corresponds to endless contracts. in the last quarter, compared with the previous year, there were more than 90 % of net jobs created — workers in contrast to others — which could be integrated in this form of contract, i.e. in the contract without term. It is clear that much still needs to be done at the legislative level, at the level of collective bargaining and at the level of social dialogue, but this is a fight we are all committed to. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, today is the day of surprises. The last thing I was waiting for was to hear someone from the CDS talk about adult qualification. It was the last thing I was expecting to hear! Those parties that extinguished the New Opportunities, defended nationally and internationally as one of the best measures to promote adult qualification, are now discussing adult qualification after they have destroyed this system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I reassure the honourable Member : despite a cut of more than EUR 1300 million from the Community funds for employment and vocational training policies, which were registered in Portugal 2020 by the VV Government. In spite of this, and with the use of other sources of funding and other mechanisms, I can tell you that in August the compliance rate of the Qualifica Programme was 45 % of the current target, corresponding to 65 000 entries. Madam Member, there is an entire discussion that we could have about qualification, but I would like to say again: if there is anyone who should make a thorough review of his political action here, it is those who destroyed the most powerful initiative we have created in Portugal to combat the disqualification of adults. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Rita Rato, you are right to say that there are a number of areas in which we must continue to work. I would like to talk about the national minimum wage. We may have differences about the rate of growth of the national minimum wage, but if there is great achievement that was achieved by Portuguese and Portuguese in recent years, it was to transform the objective of sustained real growth of the minimum wage into an objective, I would not say consensual, but largely majority in Portuguese society. Few voices have already been voiced, but there are still some that challenge the political and social importance of increasing the minimum wage. Not long ago, we heard that it would be better until he came down. But no! This time has also passed and this is a time when the vast majority of Portuguese defend the continuation of a sustained rise in the national minimum wage. I would also like to say that you are right because it is necessary to extend the functions of some state bodies. Today, the Government has adopted a law to promote the fight against gender disparity in wage terms, which extends the work of the Commission on Equality at Work and Employment precisely in this area, which is a crucial area. Portugal is still a country with too much wage inequality, from a gender perspective, and this law, which has been well thought out, which has been very worked, can be a very powerful instrument, with the strengthening of the action of the State, the Act (Working Conditions Authority), the ISCED (Commission on Equality in Labour and Employment), the entire Ministry of Labour and other public bodies, to promote the employment of all and to combat wage disparity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We'll be here, and you and the Members will be here. Members, in particular, to discuss many of the issues which you have raised, but, knowing that, as has already been made clear, the fundamental options of this Budget are identified and that the most relevant steps, in combating inequalities, in combating social cohesion, are consolidated in this Budget, as has happened in the previous budgets. And this includes, Mr. Jorge Falcato Simões, the renewal, the profound reform of social protection for people with disabilities. When, recently, I mentioned, the forum, which last month, for the first time, the social benefit for inclusion began to be paid with high growth, in view of the previous income of the beneficiaries of the monthly life support, was signaling a change, a change of enormous significance for all those and all those who need these public policies. They will continue, particularly in terms of employment. But you are right, there we need to do more, and we need to do more by always studying the steps we are taking. I can say that since the law on social inclusion was passed, thousands of potential beneficiaries have already been required. It is a new challenge for Public Administration, and a fundamental challenge. We hope to lead it well and, in order to lead it well, we need everyone's effort, in employment, in social protection, in strengthening cohesion, and for people with disabilities but also for the Portuguese and Portuguese as a whole. That is the essence of this State budget, that is the essence of the parliamentary agreement that allows this government to change policies, that is the essence of the change in the times we are living. The adoption of this Budget will be another sign in this sense, that we are changing time, that we are changing policies and that we count on most Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u427	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the stage of requests for clarification and corresponding answers from the Minister of Labour and we are moving forward again to a stage of intervention. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u428	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : The popular criticism that politicians only care about the immediate and their electoral interests is that not a glove of VV. Ex. and this State Budget. The concern about the future of the country, in fact, was never the zeal of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u429	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u430	The debt that fell to each Portuguese, 25 years ago, was around €3600. Today, past 25 years, five socialist governments later, rounds the €24 000. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is factual: the Socialist Party consecutively punishes new generations with more debt and more taxes. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, you don't know and probably don't even imagine that, today, a Portuguese spends more than half a year getting up and going to work to pay taxes, so that SS. They choose to increase structural expenditure, increasing even more the burden of the State on workers and on those who create jobs. We can talk about the chapter of captivity, where during these years we have seen an authentic tear of garments, from the Portuguese left, to which now, by the third consecutive budget, they lower their eyes. In fact, it's what they're doing and they've been doing all day. And they come down because they are conjugating with attacks on the quality of public service, particularly in health, education, internal administration, defense and all day-to-day functioning of the State. People know - and don't let themselves be deceived! The Portuguese know - because they feel, every day, problems and degradation in hospitals, schools, public services. For it is, My Lords and Ladies, particularly from the left parliament, this is your Budget. A budget that does not solve the problems of young Portuguese people seeking employment in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u431	The ones you sent away? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u432	... because it does not encourage private initiative, but on the contrary punishes it with additional taxes. in tourism, for example, which has been, as we know, one of the main oxygen bubbles of the national economy, you, in this Budget, threaten with more attacks, especially those who have been able to incorporate foreign currency into the Portuguese economy. This one, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a budget that does not solve the problems of young Portuguese people seeking decent housing in urban centres. You have no structural solution to assist the housing lease on the part of young people who legitimately aspire to emancipate themselves. This is a budget in which, for example, in higher education, when universities have not yet received the reinforcements for career replacement this year, for the increase in food allowance and for the increase in minimum wage, what you do, once again, is just to announce a whimsical increase. This is a budget that does not stimulate the productivity of Portuguese companies in an open market economy, but rather reduces it. And what will this Parliament do about what has already been discussed today, what are the amendments to the simplified scheme of self-employed young people? Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the same independent young workers with which you so often fill your mouth when you give examples of precariousness to be combated and must be combated? Oh, my God! What they're gonna do, VV. For example, in the face of these changes that make life difficult for workers, from a bureaucratic and economic point of view? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, make your choices consistent with your priorities, but do not forget that « whoever does not want to be a wolf does not wear his skin». This one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the fake news budget! Looks like it's going to improve the lives of the Portuguese, but it doesn't improve. Indirect taxes increase, taxes on self-employed people increase, capitulation remains and difficulties for the next generations worsen. However, for this Government, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we live in the country of wonders. Your options for structural expenditure and not for investment, your options for taxes and debt and not for young people in Portugal remind me of what Immanuel Kant wrote in 1784,... [[PS's, BE's, PCP's and Greens' laughs.]] ...maybe there already to think of this large left-wing majority in Parliament. I'm going to quote you, ladies and gentlemen. Members: "It is so convenient to be smaller. If I have a book that has understanding for me, a spiritual director who instead of me has moral conscience, a doctor who decides for me the diet, then I don't need to try myself. (...) others will undertake this boring task by me».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u433	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u434	I will finish, Mr. President. Addressing me, therefore, to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you the following: do not let yourself fall into the easy position to nod this government that brings nothing more than fake news to young Portuguese people. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that, unlike the Minister of National Defence, the Portuguese, when they see something taken from them by the socialist governments, find no more resources. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u435	Mr Simão Ribeiro, the Bureau does not record registrations for requests for clarification, but also did not have time to answer. For an intervention you now have the floor of Mr João Torres.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u436	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate, in general, of the State Budget for 2018 goes on the second day, and approaching the end, but from yesterday until today little changed the speech of the opposition, just as little or nothing changed from two years ago to this part. He didn't change his speech or change his protagonists. PSD and CDS continue to be disillusioned by the good results of government action and, in the absence of a better argument, anticipate a dark future for Portugal and the Portuguese. The accusation that this Government does not offer a future strategy for the country was reiterated yesterday and today, sometimes without account, in this House, in the absence of any alternative proposal for Portugal and with a still-inflicted opposition to the responsibility of the rules of democracy that led the Socialist Party to the Government. However, in this budget debate, it is clear to all that the absence of a right-wing strategy for the country is more than a trivial suspicion, yes, it is an acquired data. But it is also important to reaffirm that there is a strategy that the Socialist Party and its parliamentary group reject across the line: the strategy of the return to the past. to the past of wage cuts and pensions, to the past of dismantling the social state, to the past of exponential growth of unemployment, to the past of forced emigration and without alternative, to the past of colossal impoverishment of all generations of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, it is evident in this debate that the antagonism between the vision of the right and the vision of the Socialist Party and the forces that support this government solution is an antagonism. When Mr. Prime Minister refers to a view supported in more growth, better employment and more equality, it is no longer a slogan in vain, as those who are so able to create and reproduce the right. The direction of government reflects a strategy and action that have produced concrete and material results in people's lives. They accuse us of not making reforms, which is clearly false. But even though the return of income was the only transformation that this government was undertaking, we want you to know, Mr President. Members of the opposition, who, for us, in the Socialist Party, is a great reform and a reform that we are proud of. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, in itself, the return of income leads the country to a higher level of social justice, after years when, with the right-wing Members to support a right-wing government, everyone, and in particular the younger ones, saw their future transformed into an abyss. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about the differences that separate us, and these differences even begin in the way we look at the future and the future of the new generations. The PSD and CDS have long abandoned the design of building a society of opportunities for all and despise emancipation as a fundamental vehicle for citizens' autonomy. in knowledge, in employment, housing and mobility, in all these areas, the government has acted with diligence and the State Budget for 2018 does not interrupt this path, particularly with the increase of family allowance to more than 130 000 children, with the extension of day care and pre-school networks, with the strengthening of social action, particularly in higher education, with the valorization of school success and vocational education, with the implementation of measures such as contract-management, and with the return to housing a crucial role in defining public policies and with the dignity of scientific work. Mr President, this is a budget that benefits all generations, but that lies in a very different vision of the future than the one that advocates the right represented in this Chamber. It is, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party, we fight for a society of rights and not for an arbitrary rule society in which each one is handed over to himself; we fight for the rigor and sustainability of public finances, instead of the dangerous and "austerial" experimentalisms that constituted the water brand of a recent past of right-wing governance between 2011 and 2015; and we fight for innovation, by incorporating knowledge as fundamental pillars of a development model. We do not fight for a society in which low wages and easy layoffs are the driving force behind Portugal's assertion in Europe and in the world. We're worth more than that! We do not forget how much is still to be done to recover the country from the social bankruptcy in which the right has immersed Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD protests.]] We recognize it with humility, although we also do not forget that for the right-wing Government, Portugal and the Portuguese were not the same thing. But, two years back, with results that are in view of all less than those who manifestly do not want to see them, the opposition problem is perhaps the same in previous years: to criticize the governance of the way they do it, they can only be looking at the country by the rearview mirror and in it to review what they have done to it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I said in the discussion of the State Budget for 2017 what I am saying a year later: « We support the Portuguese with frontality, pensioners and pensioners, who see their pensions increase, do not decrease, the workers, who see their incomes strengthened, not weakened, and also the young, who have added and substantial reasons to believe in the future of Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” Neoliberal extremism continues to dominate the Portuguese right. There was in this House a true Christian Democratic Party and a Social-Democrat Party, beyond its designation, and the conclusion would, frankly, be this: the opposition could never completely reject this proposal of State Budget. Mr President, in conclusion, it is clear to all Portuguese, and it is nothing less than impressive, that on this right there is no resistance of social consciousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u437	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u438	... on this right there is no prospect of a resistance to the future. What we want is for the government to continue its course and, if it does not ask much, for the opposition to have a little more decorum. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u439	The Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification to Mr João Torres. So you have the floor, too, for one speech, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u440	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a parliamentary debate is intended not merely to be a mere pro-forma, this proposal for the State budget has received praise and criticism. He received praise for what this Budget means in terms of the replacement of rights and incomes that had been lost by the action of the PS and PSD Government, and also received criticisms, constructive criticisms, which pointed to shortcomings in the budget proposal, which announced ideas, which announced proposals to improve, in particular, this proposal for the State Budget. What is significant is that these constructive criticisms did not come from the banks that announced their rejection of this budget proposal; these constructive criticisms came from those who already announced that they would approve the Budget, so that there could be a discussion, in the specialty, that could effectively improve this budget proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u441	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u442	That is, while we make criticism and point out proposals to improve the State budget, the PSD and the CDS present themselves in this debate with a chaotic speech, revealing a total disorientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u443	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u444	Two years ago, the speech of the parties on the right was that of the threat, i.e., if there was a replacement of Portuguese income, what would happen was that the devil would come there under the clothing of a new troika, that the devil would come there in the clothing of a rating agency, that there would come the devil with the imposition of sanctions by the European Union, there would be an escape from businesses, there would be young people to have to emigrate. But after all, what was clearly demonstrated earlier than later is that the disqualification was precisely the policy of the PSD/CDS government. The total failure of the PSD/CDS government austerity policy was clearly demonstrated. They say that it was the action of your government, the action of the PSD/CDS government, which took the country out of the crisis. Don't! Your government's policy has launched the country in a deep crisis and what took the country out of the crisis was the reintroduction of Portuguese incomes, which you have always opposed! [[PCP applause.]] That's what took the country out of the crisis. What took the country out of the crisis was not your policy; what took the country out of the crisis was a policy contrary to what you imposed. That is why the PSD and the CDS present themselves in this debate with a speech that does not pass from a set of unfounded and disconnected accusations. You say that this budget does not worry about the future, it does not prevent the future, when what you have ahead of you is a huge past. What you have been proposing is the return to the past, the return to a policy that the Portuguese have clearly rejected and that the CFP deeply rejects. The gentlemen cut wages, cut pensions,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ... worsened taxes on labour income, paid off public services. Why? Using your words, because the country was in crisis and they were obliged to do so. You are now opposed to the replacement of rights and income. Why? Because, from today to tomorrow, there can be another crisis. Well, what this clearly reveals is that, for you, austerity was eternal, that is, they do not accept the reinstatement of income. You made the cuts on the pretext of the crisis and did not accept the reinstatement of income, even though you recognized that crisis was overcome. You said that you were obliged to impose these sacrifices before. We ask what it is now that you are forced to reject the fair replacement of Portuguese income. [[PCP applause.]] They say, "Mrs." Members of the PSD and the CDS that this State budget is against companies. And we ask: what companies are you thinking about? in the restoration companies, to whom you increased VAT from 13 % to 23 %, imposed that which was restored in this legislation, as we believe it is fair, restoring the situation of justice, which allowed many of the companies not to be strangled, resisting with all the difficulties to increase the VAT imposed by you, and which could see their situation alleviated in this legislation? Are you thinking about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been relieved of the special payment on account of this legislation, correcting an unfair situation that you have imposed? It is certainly not in those companies that you are thinking about. You are only worried about companies that have profits of more than EUR 35 million and are very concerned about the possibility — see there! — these companies experience some worsening in the state. It is with these big companies that you are worried about!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u445	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u446	I will finish, Mr. President. We are more concerned about the millions of workers who work, or who have worked their entire lives, and who deserve a decent life. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the irritation and lack of speech from the PSD and CDS is very easy to explain. It's just that when they were in the government, the State Budget was a cause of distress to the Portuguese... [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] ... and you are seeing that, now, in this legislature, particularly with this debate of the State budget, the Budget is a reason for hope and brings sure good news for the Portuguese. You are left with your past, we will continue to fight and present proposals for a better future for workers and for the Portuguese people and we will not waste any opportunity to do so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u447	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u448	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The budgets of the State translate political options that differ us, they are documents that translate the choices that, at every moment of the country's life, the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. in this intervention we intend to develop two proposals that we will present in the field of specialty. The first deals with the distribution of fruit to pre-school children. It is essential that the practice of healthy diets be established as soon as possible, since eating habits acquired during childhood may reflect on adulthood. Food education during childhood plays a key role in promoting healthy eating habits. Children who today have an inadequate or unbalanced diet will be adults who will pressure the National Health Service tomorrow. This is particularly important since 25% of children and 32% of adolescents are overweight or obese. In addition, 69% of children and 66% of adolescents do not consume the amount of fruit and vegetables recommended by the World Health Organization. In addition, adolescents are the age group with higher average consumption of soft drinks, cookies, cakes and sweets, salty snacks and pizzas. It is essential that schools be healthy food promoters. It is of the utmost importance that the State Budget for 2018 considers nutrition as a key factor in improving the health of the population, allocating the necessary funds to ensure the right to adequate food, with access to healthy foods and nutritional pedagogy. For this reason, and in addition to the inclusion of nutritionists in public school and in the National Health Service, we also propose the extension of the school fruit regime to pre-school children who, at this time, only include students of 1. the cycle. The second proposal concerns a question of fiscal justice, social cohesion and ethical and civilizational evolution: the repeal of VAT exemption to Tauromachic artists, a proposal that we repeat for the third time consecutively. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, bread, fruit, rice, masses, vegetables, medical-veterinary acts, equipment used by people with disabilities or equipment used by firemen on their mission are subject to VAT payment, but the so-called Tauromachic artists are exempt. Practically everything in Portugal pays VAT, but Tauromachic artists are exempt from their payment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Culture, Mr Prime Minister, do you not feel a bit uncomfortable with this fiscal option, which is a profound social injustice? As artists, so are these masters, their talent and their ability consists of using free violence and brutality on an animal for futile fun and entertainment. The end of this exemption is justified not only because it is a purely commercial activity but, above all, because it is based on disrespect for the sensitivity of humans and animals, rewarding the ill-treatment and applauding the display of extreme violence. Equiparing this activity to humanitarian or utility professions is a way of nullifying the meaning of words and distorting the reason for tax exemptions. It is increasingly the companies that, in recent years, have demarcated themselves from the Tauromachy and have withdrawn their support, invoking social responsibility as a fundamental value. On the other hand, the State continues to sponsor back violence aimed at a country that calls for a civilizational and ethical evolution. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, maintaining this totally inappropriate exemption means being on the back of a moving society that calls for progress in the way we relate to each other, in the way we relate to each other. The State must reward, through tax exemption, only activities that add value, unify society and necessarily go through non-violence. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I know that most of you agree with what I am defending, but when voting, they vote against what they think, they vote against what they feel, they vote against your conscience. Until when, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, will you continue to lie to yourselves? [[Congratulations from Mr. BE Jorge Falcato Simões.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u449	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u450	Mr. President, the right, PSD and CDS came to this debate with four arguments with leads, some of them contradictory to each other. The first argument is that of customers, of interest groups that are supposed to be radical left, as they like to say, or this Budget favors. Let's see: in reality, the interest groups are the workers who pay IRS and who will pay less, they are the pensioners who will have more pension, they are the children who will have more pay and more social support. The argument of interest groups or customers falls to the ground. There is a second argument, which has some variations, let us call it the argument « 2. 1 », which is what the Budget gives with one hand and takes away with the other. Yesterday, Mr. João Almeida went so far as to say that this budget was hand in hand, which was the increase in pensions, and, through the commissions of the General Deposit Box, he took the pensioners away. In addition to being decapitated, because the increase of €10 of pensions has nothing to do with the increase of a bank commission, it has forgotten to mention that in the General Deposit Box pensioners who are over 65 years old and one pension at a time and half a minimum wage are exempt from paying fees. Therefore, they only create confusion, without adding any criticism to this Budget. But we can also go to the numbers of "give with one hand and pull with the other hand": returns of IRS in steps, 230 million; overtax, 260 million; public service careers, 211 million; inclusion benefit, 79 million; extraordinary increase of pensions, 154 million; long career reforms, 48 million. in total, it is EUR 982 million, almost EUR 1000 million, which this budget returns to Portuguese, workers, civil servants, pensioners, those who need an inclusion benefit. Let's see the other side of the balance sheet. What are the differential measures? Where is there such tax increases? We have the salt tax, EUR 30 million, and changes to excise duties, EUR 150 million, which adds up to EUR 180 million. That is, all that is given with one hand, about 1000 million, minus what is supposed to be taken with the other hand, 180 million, gives a balance of 800 million directly delivered by this State budget to people. Let's go to the argument « 2. 2 », the increase in tax revenue, and the right does not seem to understand how tax revenue increases. Mr Simon Ribeiro set a good example by saying that today a worker works half a year to pay taxes. It happens that this worker, who now pays taxes, in the past did not pay because he did not have work because of the austerity measures imposed by his government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u451	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u452	It happens that the more people have jobs, the more people pay taxes. [[Protests by PSD MP Cristovão Simão Ribeiro.]] The more people have jobs, the more people pay contributions to social security. The more people have jobs, the more people have income, the more people consume, and there is no need for rates to increase tax revenue. This is the background of the economic change that the PSD and the CDS seem not to want to accept or understand. There is the argument « 2. 3 », which is that of the court in public services, but it happens that there are no cuts in the budgets of public services, neither budgeted nor executed. And, therefore, this argument also easily falls to the ground. It may be said that they do not increase as much as it would be necessary, certainly, but there are no cuts. We have reached the third argument: there are no structural reforms. We want to ask what structural reforms are. Is cutting on holidays or its elimination a structural reform? The cuts in wages that the PSD/CDS government said were temporary in Portugal but that in Brussels it presented as permanent, to be included in the structural deficit, is a structural measure made by the CDS and PSD government? Mobility in public service, to fire public officials, was it a structural reform of PSD and CDS? Therefore, we do not have an argument for structural reforms either because of the structural reforms that you have. Members will certainly not be in this State budget, because the idea that we have structural reforms is at the forefront of what you want to do structurally to the country, which is impoverishing it. We want the opposite, which is to give people more income. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We've reached the fourth argument. When everything else fails, when there are no more arguments, when nothing else serves, we arrive at the line end argument, which is the one that says: "What you are doing is easy, we have even begun that path. We're just not doing the same thing you're doing because you didn't leave us, but we'd be doing it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So, after criticizing everything and realizing that nothing is possible to criticize, they come to the point of saying that they wanted to do the same, but they cannot. But that is also relatively easy to refute, because the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS, the PSD/CDS government has left us a document where, fortunately, he describes, for memory, exactly what he thought he would do, if he continued in the government. And what I was thinking about doing was cutting out pensions, not raising pensions. What I was thinking of doing was keeping cuts in social support, not increasing the payout, not increasing the CSI, not increasing the CSI. What I was thinking of doing was raising taxes, not reducing taxes. So there are no arguments on the right. And there are no arguments on the right because the only criticism that can be made of this budget and this government is a criticism that the past on the right does not allow it to do in a credible way, is that it does not go as far as it would be necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u453	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u454	I will finish, Mr. President. The criticism to be made to this government is that it should protect more workers and reverse right-wing measures in the labour code, that it should invest more in public services to compensate for the cuts on the right. This is a critique that right, turn around, will never be able to make this Budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u455	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u456	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Members, we have heard, throughout these days, what is now agreed to be called "an insurmountable narrative of the parties that support the government" and which has to do with the following message: Portugal lived in an absolute paradise in 2011, there was no problem strictly, and, suddenly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u457	You didn't hear anyone say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u458	...the parties came that, because they wanted to impoverish people, they wanted to cut wages and pensions. The absolute absurdity of the narrative that they want to spare me any other comment. But since Mrs Mariana Mortágua wanted to collaborate on what is one of the biggest whitenings I've ever seen from a government, in the case of the government of then, that of Prime Minister Socrates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u459	We were in opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u460	... I can tell you that in the case of the PS, what removes their credibility is the past and, in the case of the Left Block, what removes their credibility is the present. This is because you have been caught, Mrs. Member, are the increases in commissions that the General Deposit Box, the state bank, now that the Left Block also participates in management, did.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u461	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u462	It's been our proposals! You lied to people!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u463	That's what he's up to. The honourable Member is not able to stop these increases and come here to say that she disagrees with them when she enables them with her vote. Therefore, your credibility is your gift that removes it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u464	I don't lie to people!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u465	Just a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u466	Not to mention the balls to EDP! Finally, let us go to the concrete questions that remain unanswered and that, in my view, many Portuguese want to be answered. With regard to self-employed and individual entrepreneurs, the answer they take from this debate is: there is a great increase in taxes and then, in the field of specialty, we will soon see if something needs to be corrected. Mrs. Members of the government, that is, something needs to be corrected! The ideal, in fact, was not to have this idea, but after all, what answer do independent workers take from this debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u467	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u468	The second question is about such seizures that you are always saying that they do not apply to anything but that all Portuguese have already realized that they apply to everything. Are they available or are they not available to have less captivating and change the item in the Budget that concerns them? The third question is very concrete and has to do with the tragedies that have been experienced in Portugal. In terms of reconstruction, civil protection and reform, what exactly is planned in this Budget? What appropriations are planned and what will be done in concrete terms? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u469	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate, in general, of the State budget, we will enter the closing phase. The table will be rather rigid to the fulfillment of the times. For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u470	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After this debate in general, we find that there are positive signs in the continuation of the budgetary strategy of recent years. At macroeconomic level, these signs have been supported by data from the Banco de Portugal and several international financial institutions. Despite these indicators and being the State budget a projection of the future, it is necessary to ensure that the weight of public debt and captives do not question this economic strategy. However, and beyond this vision that guarantees short-term economic security, we need to strengthen a long-term vision based on the implementation of essential measures in the country in the areas of social rights, health, education, agriculture, environmental protection and animal protection. In view of this long-term strategy and the urgency of strengthening this budget, we will present a package with more than 60 measures in the field of expertise. in these measures, they will find more rights for women in pregnancy and maternity, particularly by creating more conditions for delivery in water in public hospitals. We will also work to include more psychologists and more nutritionists in the National Health Service and in the public school. This strengthening will be essential to improve the emotional and nutritional health of all, contributing to a more realized society and to the sustainability of the National Health Service. Fundamental to the NAP is also ensuring that schools are healthy food promoters and, therefore, we will propose the distribution of fruit to pre-school children. Also in the context of promoting healthy food and ecosystem protection, we will bring to debate 13 measures to ensure the implementation of the action plan for the national strategy for organic agriculture. And because it is right to pay those who are more polluting and deter those who have high environmental impact agricultural practices, we will propose a review of the definition of water resources rate and an increase in the VAT rate for pesticides and other pesticides. With regard to the theme of the forest, we will prioritize measures that prevent the risk of fire, from then on, with a programme to encourage the diversification of species and offer real alternatives to the owners and associations of producers to implement oak forests, chestnut trees and other leaves. And because the State budget is also a vehicle of progress, we will propose the end of the tax distortion which exempts the tourists from the payment of VAT. We also want to provide greater protection to those who are in a vulnerable situation, ensuring that there are more service rooms for victims of violence in police stations. It is very clear that we want to contribute to improving the proposal for the State budget, but no measures of the NAP are yet guaranteed at this stage. In view of the next phase of work and the adjustments to the document that the NAP expects to receive from the Government in the field of expertise, we will generally abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u471	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u472	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when we start the final phase of the discussion, in general, of the State Budget for 2018 it is important to say that this Budget continues the essential lines of the path started with the 2016 Budget, i.e. based on the replacement of rights and incomes of families. This is therefore not the right-wing budget. In fact, like the other two last State budgets, the latter also takes a clear position to turn away from what the previous government budgets represented. For that reason, during the entire discussion of this Budget, not a word was heard about matters that had been at the heart of the discussions of the PSD/CDS Government's budgets. Wage cuts, cuts in reforms and pensions, retrofitting rights, insisting on the tax burden on labour incomes or disrespect for the Constitution, ceased to be part of the vocabulary and did not enter into the discussion of this State budget. The discussion has changed tone and frequency. If the size of the cuts were discussed in the past, today we are discussing the size of the refund and the replacement of rights and income. The discussion about the size of the tax burden on labour income led to the discussion on the size of the tax relief for those who work. This could definitely not be the right budget. Now, that we go into the third budget of the State without plan B, without corrective budgets and without the devil appear, PSD and CDS do not hide the discomfort because they are forced to recognize that, after all, there were alternatives to austerity policies that said they were inevitable, which, after all, it is possible to grow without punishing people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens believe that this budget carries with it a set of measures that promote social justice and seek to ensure the good performance of our economy. Still, and without attempting to minimize the importance of these positive measures, the Greens understand that we could, and should, go further in responding to the needs of Portuguese and in strengthening the defence of environmental values. But we will expect that, as a specialist, more steps can be taken to strengthen social policies, including health, education and culture, and also to strengthen environmental objectives. In fact, in this context, we welcome the opening by the Government of three proposals which the Greens intend to present in the field of expertise. The first concerns the proposal for the reduction of the price of Step 4 /NP 18, without any condition of appeal. This is a proposal which aims to create incentives or incentives for the use of public transport, as a way not only to ensure people's mobility, but also to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and facilitate our country's compliance with international commitments on climate change. The second Green proposal aims to create incentives for energy micro-production as a way to enhance energy efficiency and reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. The third proposal concerns strengthening the means, in particular humans, for the conservation of the nature, protection and surveillance of our forest. the set of proposals which the Greens wish to present, as a matter of expertise, to improve the document, we would also like to highlight the proposals to combat regional asymmetries, in order to counter the abandonment of the rural world and the desertification of the interior, and the proposals to promote public investment in quality, particularly at the level of transport, in particular of rail, with a view to boosting the development of our economy and, on the one hand, bringing our production back to life, seeking to reduce the weight in the performance of our economy of external factors, which do not depend on us. But there are also proposals to strengthen public services as a way to ensure an adequate response to the needs of citizens. And if we talk in public services, we also talk about transport and the need to ensure an efficient, comfortable public transport network at socially fair prices. We need a network that will be able to respond to the needs of the people, to the environmental and energy challenges, to promote the development of the country, in particular to combat regional asymmetries, and to act as a real foundation for combating greenhouse gas emissions and combating climate change. in this important response, rail transport, due to its characteristics, will have to play a decisive role. On the other hand, it is important to ensure that the measures announced to respond to the problems created by fires have a budgetary expression. But it is also necessary to start implementing structural measures for our forest, in order to take care of this important heritage and, above all, to avoid tragedies in the future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that this budget, like the previous ones, is also conditioned by constraints, especially external, from the beginning of the public debt, whose renegotiation, in our view, continues on the agenda, because it also continues to suffocate the country and compromise its development. Nevertheless, it is a budget that seeks to respond to some of the most urgent problems in Portuguese and the country and which will therefore count on the favourable vote by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u473	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u474	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a country hard hit by decades of right-wing policy, the assessment of the State budget proposal for 2018 must be made from its concrete content, the meaning of its measures and, of course, of the options that are made in the face of the necessary response to serious national problems. We appreciate the fact that this State budget consolidates the measures for the replacement of rights, wages and incomes, which have been taken over the past two years, and takes further steps in this replacement. Those who care about the living conditions of workers and our people must value the fact that there is a further increase in pensions and reforms in 2018, to relieve the IRS to workers, particularly those with lower incomes, and to return rights to employees of the Public Administration. We do so without hiding our disagreement with the options that limit the response that was possible and necessary to find for the structural problems of the country. It should be stressed that the budget proposal, globally, is far from responding to the necessary response to address the level of degradation of the country's situation and the living conditions caused by right-wing policy, the responsibility of successive PS governments, the PSD and the CDS, and above all, far from what the situation demands and the real possibilities to respond to it. Debt, euro, rules and policies of the European Union are particularly negative beyond external requirements. The targets for reducing the deficit imposed by the Government on itself limit the pace and extent of the replacement of the rights and incomes required and the necessary public investment. They continue to overcome vulnerabilities and dependencies that prevent the economic and social development of the country and continue to implement a policy that responds to its structural problems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The budget proposal consolidates all the measures taken over the past two years and incorporates new steps in the defence, replacement and conquest of rights. Established, of course, an important set of advances which include: elimination of overtax in the IRS; full replacement of wages; replacement of the 35 hours of work and holidays that had been withdrawn; advances in combating precariousness in the Public Administration and in the business sector of the State; free school textbooks n. 1. the basic education cycle; the replacement of VAT to 13 % in the restoration; the reduction of the value, with the prospect of extinction, of the special payment on behalf of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; the deterioration of the IMI; the replacement of the collective contract and of the reform supplements in the business sector of the State; the extraordinary increase in pensions and reforms carried out in 2017; the extension and increase of the family allowance up to three years old; the reduction of moderate rates; the thawing of the social support indexer; and the increase in the taxation of the higher value real estate estate. This set of consolidated measures is now adding new advances, including some of greater relevance, with a further increase in pensions and reforms, relief in the IRS for those with lower incomes and the return of rights to employees of the Public Administration, such as career progression and payment of extraordinary hours, overtime and night work and quality hours. We have heard in this debate the PSD and the CDS, so quickly, saying that « Budget gives everything to all », such as « hand in hand and take one hand with the other », and that they refer to these advances as « things » that the CFP discussed with the government. We want to tell the ladies. Members of the PSD and the CDS who, on our part, have these positive measures involved the CFP through their proposals and their contribution. No, it's not "things", it's for a better life than the Portuguese we've been and we're dealing with! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] They are limited, insufficient, but they are advances. The appreciation of the advances achieved is not contradictory with the statement that there are insufficiency, insufficiency that we need to overcome even in the discussion work, in the specialty. There are commitments made for the approval of the proposals that the CFP will submit again, such as the increase in IRC for businesses with more than EUR 35 million of profits, due to the increase in the spill, and the elimination of the 10% cut in unemployment benefit. There are also commitments to extend the free of charge of school textbooks, which the CFP will be fighting for to happen for the 2nd. o is 3. the basic education cycles. But there are still other important matters in which we need to intervene in order to make progress. There is a need for progress in the field of public investment. Public investment is needed to modernise and advance the country, economically and socially. There is an urgent need for public investment in forest planning, the defence and development of the rural world and the prevention and fight against forest fires. Public investment is necessary to recover and modernize buildings from schools, hospitals and health centres, to recover and modernize essential equipment for the provision of health care, public transport, scientific research or support services for productive sectors. Public investment is essential to ensure adequate conditions for the development of science, art, culture or for the fulfilment of the mission of the security forces and the armed forces. It becomes increasingly evident the need to recover the political control instruments of public investment, requiring the concrete identification of the investments to be made. It is necessary to take steps to solve the problems of lack of staff, which crosses all public services and the business sector of the State. The Government must take steps to integrate public administration workers with precarious links, without waiting for or dependent on their own requests, which may not happen in fear of them. But that will not be enough and does not exempt the hiring of missing workers. The CFP will also be hit, in the field of expertise, by other objectives. We will continue to beat us, among other things: by the complete replacement in 2018 of the rights that have not yet been assured, namely the counting of time for the progression in the careers of teachers, but also of nurses, military, service professionals and security forces; by the reduction of the contribution of workers to ADSE (Assistance for Disease to State Servants ), SAD (Assistance Service for Diseases ) and ADM (Assistance for Diseases to Military) ; by the strengthening of the extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed; by the valorization of family allowances; by the valorization of long-term career contributions; by measures that fulfil the rights of people with disabilities; by the deterioration of energy costs; by the deterioration of the IMF; and by the taxation of capital income. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we say that the State Budget proposal is far from responding to the necessary response to withdrawing the country from the situation so that it has been pushed by decades of right-wing policy, the responsibility of the PS, the PSD and the CDS, we do so with the notion of the real problems that Portugal faces, the options that need to be made to overcome them and those that are present in this State Budget proposal. The budget proposal is limited by the options of the PS and by the constraints it assumes or by the prevalence of the interests of large capital in PPP (public-private partnerships), tax benefits, support to private bank, interest in debt, among others, all reasons that prevent the advance in what would be necessary and possible to respond to the structural problems of the country. It is not about differences in pace or intensity in measures to replace rights, but rather about basic options, which must be done to free the country from what binds it and to ensure a future of development, progress and social justice for our country and our people. That is what we are talking about when we refer to alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy, a policy of rupture with the right-wing policy that frees Portugal from the constraints that have afflicted us, that frees the country from the obsession with reducing the deficit in conditions absolutely contrary to the needs of the people and the country, that uses national resources for the development of the country, that frees us from the constraints of the European Union, the euro and the budgetary treaty, so that we can ensure the sovereign development of the country. A policy expressed in the objectives why we will continue to beat ourselves immediately, particularly in the demand for increased wages for all workers in the private sector, the Public Administration and the State business sector, in the establishment of the national minimum wage of 600 € in January 2018, in the fight against precariousness, in the elimination of the burdensome standards of the Labour Code, in support of the development of the productive sectors and national production. By not wasting any possibility of advancing and acquiring rights and incomes, but having them as a line from the next horizon, it is because of this alternative policy that the CFP will continue to beat. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u475	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u476	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of two days of budgetary debate in Parliament, but almost three months after the parties of this government majority, PS, Block of Left, PCP and the Greens, they have launched it in the public square, on behalf of the autarchic elections, staging everything at the same time and quickly, pretending to be angry and even proposals that they have not seen and will probably never see the light of the day, it is appropriate to say "everything as before: it sends who can, obeys who has to obey and who wants to obey". We all realize that this budget is going to be approved by the union of the left — more tug, less tug, less theatre, less theatre — and that the debate, in the field of specialty, will only serve, who knows, for the PCP to put less salt into the pepper that will have to swallow or for the Block of Left to pretend that a green receipt is being passed to those who are truly giving a whipped red tax. [[CDS-PP applause.]] For two days, the CDS showed what is wrong in this Budget: who is damaged, what is forgotten and the alternative path that exists. We show that this Budget is seriously affecting who is an independent worker and passes green receipt, who is a small owner and farmer, who risks, who invests, who is an entrepreneur, who creates wealth and jobs or who wants to work more and, for his effort and merit, wants to get up in life. But it also affects who is a user of the National Health Service and sees cancer surgeries postponed due to lack of money, who attends a public school and does not have classes because there are no assistants, or who uses public transport and does not have enough careers or boats, or who uses your car and pays more fuel to work. It is austerity on the left, and it will maintain-CL in this Budget; it is precisely the mirror of this majority: an illusion. A budget whose sole aim, of those who propose it, is to maintain power at all costs, or, better, at the cost and cost of all of us, as it increases, once again, all indirect taxes. It is therefore a budget that challenges all the challenges faced by this government and this majority: the challenge of transparency, the challenge of prudence and the challenge of confidence. Two budgets later, the minimum that could be required for this Government was this time to present a transparent, real budget and to meet, without tricks and without illusory expenditure or investment, i.e. without record captives of more than EUR 1000 million of execution, such as those in the current budget, UTAO has denounced, and well. Not at all! The formula which Mr. Prime Minister calls 'good governance', to captivate at the head of 30 % of the budgeted expenditure approved in this House, is to maintain. Pure budgetary illusionism, we say. To propose a word in the Budget and to present it to Parliament, to approve this same Budget to satisfy or shut down its partners on the left and then not to pay suppliers or not to make the investments planned is not only transparent as it is not worthy of a state of good. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u477	from now on, the left parties will approve a Budget that they know in advance that will not be executed. You are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, your corrective budgets, which are so proud not to have, but only in a more opaque, hidden version and, surely, politically opportunistic. [[CDS-PP applause.]] last year, the Block and the PCP approved, just as this year, the Budget in November, with the same seizures, but then, in May, and notified by the CDS, they pretended they did not know and were indignant. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Bloc and the PCP, the political farce is over. Here today, when you vote on this budget, you will have to assume all the responsibilities, your responsibilities, and, in May, you do not come to carpire sorrows that you did not have in November. But, Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a lack of caution in this budget. in a favourable environment, with the European economy growing, with the ECB ( European Central Bank ) buying public debt at lower interest rates and with the European funds of Portugal 2020 to inject money into our economy, it was necessary for a responsible government to think in the medium and long term, to capture investment, to make the country more competitive at the tax level, to ensure any slowdown in the European and Portuguese economies — which, moreover, the government itself foresees — which reduced the tax burden of companies, to encourage private initiative and to promote work as an essential value of a society that wants to grow by work and merit. Well, this budget does exactly the opposite: not only does it not degrade the tax burden on companies as indirectly exacerbate taxes to all and to all, taking out both hands—yes, taking out both hands — what it says with one. And all this in the name of what? In the name of a vision for the country? In the name of optimism, though irritating? No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! This government and this majority are reckless, above all and so alone, in the name of the only value that unites them, the power, and on behalf of elections that still come far but which, for this majority, are too close to waste a good opportunity to try to pass a good picture. It is also, for this reason, an opportunistic budget, which does not think, as it should, in the country and in its future, but, yes, in whom it governs and thus goes ruling. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a budget which, above all, fails to trust, in confidence that it is due to a State that has failed, seriously, again and again, which has failed the Portuguese essentially and which has not learned the lesson. It is a Budget that once again forgets the areas of sovereignty, the security of people and goods and the defence of the territory and which, irresponsiblely, decreases or does not reinforce, as was required, investment in security forces and services, the Armed Forces, civil protection or the agents of justice. In the face of a budget that is opaque, when it should be transparent, which is opportunistic, when caution was asked, and which is irresponsible, when confidence was required, the CDS can only have an attitude: vote against. But that does not prevent the CDS from saying what it would do differently, and that is what we did. We said that the country could, and should, in these circumstances, have another Budget, an Budget which did not attack the workers on the green receipt and who works on its own account and at its own risk, lower the tax burden of companies, of all companies, which created a mission unit to gather efforts and wills to deal with the scourge of fires that affected our country, which created a tax regime itself for the interior, to combat desertification, to strengthen the funds of civil protection and security forces, to protect people and goods. Moreover, Mr Prime Minister, in his opening speech, did not devote more than two paragraphs to these matters and everything was saying no. When confronted by the President of the CDS on the mission unit or the internal tax regime itself, he replied simply that it was not available or that it duplicated services. Even worse, I would say, Mr Prime Minister, when asked by Mr Telmo Correia where were the funds for the payment of compensation to the families of the victims or to cover the damage caused by the fires, when asked what would be done, in the area of health, about the postponed surgeries, when questioned by Mrs Cecilia Meireles about what would be done about the vocational training that is not given for lack of money, or when asked about the public investment in fundamental areas that the State does not do, what did it do? I didn't, I didn't know, or I couldn't answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u478	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u479	Moreover, it is extraordinary that the same Government and the same left-wing majority, at the same time, attack the private tax initiative and attack the State with seizures in its most basic functions, reducing it to a minimum state. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u480	This one, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the original sin of this budget and we know that it will continue in the field of specialty. Any changes to this Budget will be negotiated or simulated, two or two, at the closed door, in the offices of the Socialist Party, the Bloc, the PCP and the Greens, which is not good for democracy and also does not help improve the lives of Portuguese people. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: This Parliament is already in the middle and the government has been in office for two years. Whoever has responsibility for this policy is this majority and therefore it was time for you to assume your responsibilities. We continue to see those who have led us to bankruptcy—and some of them, then, as they are now, members of the government—and who have made the greatest attack on the social state, which is the failure of the state, to fill up their mouths by saying that the responsibility is who was wrong in the past. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u481	We have now heard ministers who led the country to bankruptcy speak of a policy of austerity, when they were the first and last responsible for that austerity. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is why, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Members of the majority, the Government is yours, the majority is yours, the Budget is yours and the irresponsibility is yours as well. This is your way, it is not ours, and therefore we will vote against, in the certainty that we will be serving Portugal with this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u482	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u483	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has been marked, in particular for the PSD and CDS benches, by the way in which they have demonstrated, even today, that the past afflicts them, the bad conscience of a past that still torments them. As the singer once asked, in a very current question: "How can I start something new with the whole yesterday inside me? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So the right question is how you can discuss a State budget, when you cannot get rid of the past where you were in the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u484	This has been a great race now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u485	Incoherence is still collapsing and brings together falsehood. We heard, minutes ago, the PSD expressed its extraordinary position on pensions and how the measures of this State budget would be applied. Mr Adam Silva told us: "We are happy with the increase in pensions, but we will vote against it. We are even happy with the extraordinary increase in pensions, but the PSD will vote against. We're happy with the increase in family pay, but the PSD will vote against. We agree with the diversification of sources of social security financing, but the PSD will vote against". This inconsistency and this falsehood are only compatible with the way in which they refuse to cut 600 million euros in pensions here, intended to be handed over to the Constitutional Court, sent to Brussels on a missive basis and repeated several times by rulers who now sit as deputies and deputies. And, in order not to be suspected, I will quote the previous Minister of Finance when they asked him whether there would be a cut of EUR 600 million in pensions, to which she replied: « It is honest to tell the Portuguese that something will need to be done about pensions to ensure the sustainability of social security and that something can happen through some reduction, even in current pensioners». However, the falsity and inconsistencies of the PSD remain with the past that overwhelms them and with the unequivocal demonstration that, since they have no project for the country, they are tormented by what they were in the past government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But we have heard many times, both in this budgetary debate and in previous times, high leaders of the PSD and the CDS say: "It is good to govern when the economy is going well. If we had had that moment, we would have known how to rule when the economy was going well». I was also telling us yesterday, Maria Luís Albuquerque that her options were very limited by the troika program. Now, if we're looking for such a watch that the CDS inaugurated to celebrate the final countdown for the Troika's release, we're checking that the troika left the country in 2014. When 2015 arrived and the PSD and CDS government had to deliver a Stability Program, there was no more troika, there was already a growth perspective, as Pedro Passos Coelho repeated several times in the election campaign or as Paulo Portas and Assumption Cristas repeated several times in the election campaign. We can then ask what, when the economy was beginning to grow, the PSD and CDS propose for 2017 and compare with what we have today in 2017. It is that as far as GDP growth is concerned, the right, which is said to be the champion of growth, was expected to grow by 2, 4 %. Well, one chance never comes just: now the forecast, which is being fulfilled, is that the growth is 2, 6 %. After all, growth champions stay behind on the battle with reality. If we look at the tax revenue—and I'm going to use UTAO's data not to say they are being manipulated—, which was expected by the PSD and CDS for 2017 was 25, 5 % of GDP; compared to what UTAO says and that we expect for this year, it is 24, 9 %. After all, not only were growth champions like, when they accuse this government of being the champion of tax revenue, they do it out of envy, because they wanted to go get much more in people's pocket. We looked for 2018 and found that even in 2018 and after this attack the right says it is done through indirect taxes, the right would look for 25, 3 % of GDP in tax revenue, compared with the 25, 2 % of GDP in the State budget. Again, I believe that the right will be filled with shame and particularly Mr.António Leitão Amaro, who repeated so much yesterday, both repeated to the exhaustion, that here, on this side, would be the champions of the attack on people's pockets through tax revenue. It is clear that they have not studied the lesson because they do not live well with their past.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u486	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u487	But let's go to what matters, which are people, and compare an essential matter to see the quality of the economy. Let's see the job. What do PSD and CDS propose for 2017 when it comes to employment? An unemployment rate exceeding 12 %, i.e. 12 %, 1 %. Let us now look at the reality, which is 9, 2 %. The difference in rate values may seem abstract, but the more than 150 000 men and women who are now employed know very well how the PSD and CDS revenue would condemn them to unemployment and how it was the change of policies that finally brought them a job. That is the difference in the economic policies at issue. Those who do not live well with themselves note that they do not live well with others and insult the country, as they did in the past. It has now been tested, and it is proving itself every day passing, that the cutting policy of the PSD and CDS was not inevitable. It was an ideological choice that served to martyr the country. When they repeat today, in 2017, that when the minimum wage increases we are responding to customers, when we increase pensions we are responding to customers, when we increase the family allowance we are responding to customers, you realize that it is people, workers, workers, children in our country that they want to attack and with whom they are upset. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS have only reason to be upset with you and now the country also has reason to be upset with you. That's why you guys are sitting in opposition. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we look at the past we realize that this Government's budget is not the Socialist Party's budget. There was no increase in pensions in the Socialist Party's electoral programme, the most extraordinary. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] It was not on the Socialist Party's programme to end the overtax of IRS, as is already the case today for all incomes up to 80 000 € per year. It was not on the Socialist Party's programme that today no worker or State worker had wage cuts. If it were this program, reality would be very different. This State Budget is the Budget of the Socialist Party's minority government which was born with the agreements made on the left and which already incorporates measures which the Left Block has defended, either in the initial agreement or in subsequent negotiations. And I am glad that this policy has changed and that there is a consequence of public choices. But this one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the Left Block Budget. [[Yeah, yeah!]] [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u488	Part of an absolutely different paradigm. It would not be a Block Budget that would show subservience to the deficit and European rules nor would it lack the courage to restructure public debt. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We would not have the insufficiency of public investment, particularly in essential public services, we would not have a policy of captivating which, although more transparent, still needs to be reviewed, would not have hidden the value of the investment needed to respond to the scourge of fires and the challenge of the reconstruction of the country and would need to remove the troika from the Labour Code and the rights of workers. They are different paradigms, basic options that make the difference, but we know that in this solution, arranged in the post-election period of 2015, in the negotiations for a 10% result, with 19 Members, and therefore we know well that we are working to measure the measure, proposed the proposal, to improve the lives of people, ensuring that we walk to a much deeper transformation horizon. To improve this State budget, we now remember that government time is over. The Government has done its job by handing over the State budget to the Assembly of the Republic. The time for parliamentary groups to improve this State budget now begins. with regard to the Left Block, the proposals are clear, unequivocal, and the priorities have already been announced. With regard to health, for example, we will give the PSD and the CDS, scandalized with the increase in PPPs in health, the possibility of voting with us the end of private public partnerships in health. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We will vote here against the precariousness, the rate of turnover, ensuring the incentive for a work with rights and stability. We will ensure that the evil that the PSD and CDS have done to the long-term unemployed with the cut of 10 % will not continue with the State budget for 2018 and we will bring fiscal justice—yes, Mrs and Mrs. Members of the CDS! — increasing the state spill for millionaire companies, those with more than EUR 35 million of profits and which were, after all, really the clientele that the CDS wanted to defend when it was scared by the Left Block proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u489	There's no doubt about it! That's it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u490	They are paradigms, they are choices, they are views of society very different from the right, we know, but they are those for which it is worth fighting, for a country that still has much to do to recover the delay of the wrong policies of the past. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u491	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u492	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and other members of the Government: It is up to us today to vote, in general, on the proposals for major options of the Plan and State Budget for next year. Their vote, without prejudice to the examination of the following specialty, is a political act which will mean the admissibility or rejection of the proposed strategy. Those who approve it formally express a commitment of support and influence in the essential course we have undertaken two years ago in Portugal, with the best known results. Those who reject it dissociate themselves from this path that we have made, denying the successes recognized and relentlessly daring negative results. The reality, fortunately, tells us that in almost everything, the successes have defeated the bad aggressors of the CDS and PSD. Better that way! They have won all those who have committed themselves to the government and have benefited the whole country, from the continent to the autonomous regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] on the one hand, we have a parliamentary minority of denial, which degrades with the same voracity with which it is consumed in the intestinal struggle by the leadership of the right. on the other hand, a positive plural majority, who believes that the path is that of the friendly, present and dynamic State, that the path is that of the breakdown and dignity of families, of the training of people, of the decrease of inequalities, of investment in public protection systems, in modernization, in the business economy and in employment. All of this has coexisted with the improvement of public accounts, without which — it is good that everyone understands it! — there will never be support and sustainability for the policies we are developing, whether in education or in health, whether in support of companies or in social protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A plural majority that enriches the government project by its diversity of opinion and priorities, providing a beneficial and constructive political scrutiny that, not confusing itself with the opposition, has done more than it does to make it more and better. A positive plurality that, in this favourable vote of the generality of budgetary policy, once again is strengthened and converges, aware of the unfinished tasks, for the continuity of change. Those who, day after day, since the motion of rejection of December 2015 to the motion of censure of October 2017, have prophesied the collapse of this political motor force, day after day, as today, are confronted with its reconfirmation. Good! Win the alternative that we build and benefit from the country in which we engage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Prime Minister : It is the third State budget to be approved in this House. One more than CDS and PSD rushed to spoil. in the first, by 2016, they foretold inexorable deviations, Reformary budgets, the collapse of finances, plansB and a political majority defeat. on the contrary, the budgetary goals were met and the political ambition of the parties engaged in change grew. in predicting the results of the 2017 Budget, CDS and PSD — the PP and PPD — returned to the description of the accident: the strategy was wrong and the economy would define, they said. The reality has denied them again. The economy this year has not only accelerated strongly as it converges with the European average, at the end of 17 years of divergence, and with levels of confidence in families and companies never reached in recent decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have become the investor-friendly country, we have succeeded in attracting external investment and in internationalizing our economy. Portuguese exports have grown above the average of the European Union and the euro area and have reached the highest growth in the first half of this year in the last seven years. The subsequent revisions to the prospects of the Portuguese economy, prepared by the various internal and external entities, also account for the recognition of our good work. The exit of the excessive deficit process and the rise of the Portuguese Republic's rating for the level of investment are other signs of the sustainable and lasting nature of Portuguese evolution. I know that there are those who do not like to hear about the present and say that what matters is the future that prophesies, as if what is happening was not part of that future, for example, the future of generations for whom we are creating and recovering jobs. At the end of 11 years, the country again presents an unemployment rate below the euro area average. We are witnessing the greatest job creation in the last 19 years. About 15 net jobs are created every hour, more sustainable jobs, spread by the most productive sectors of our economy, in all regions and in all age groups. While at the time of previous governance more than 100 people per day fell into a statistical situation of poverty and social exclusion, with the PS government only in 2016, 460 people per day freed themselves from this unfortunate and outraged condition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The country's governance is not judged by the detail of the seizures of money or other current techniques of budgetary execution, with which some are distracted and others are concerned. What matters is that, in the last two years, against the Vaticans on the right, Portugal has seized its public finances, has benefited in its external credibility, has strengthened its internal stability, has seen its economy grow, has generated jobs and has reduced unemployment and poverty as never before! If CDS and PSD did not like it or do not like it, worse for them, better for Portugal and better for Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] To define budgetary policy and to govern with these results is, contrary to what the former Minister of Finance says, not to consent to the missed opportunity, to have ambition for the future of the country, to have politics with present and with the future. It is, above all, to administer, replacing the social indifference of the governance of the CDS and PSD by concern with justice and sensitivity to people, which the current Prime Minister has transmitted to government action. That is where we have to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are on the right track, but it is obviously necessary to do more and better. We are well aware that the work proposed by the PS, and agreed in the parliamentary majority that supported the government's investment, is incomplete. Tax justice, improving people's incomes and corporate capitalization, efficiency of public systems, such as civil protection or health care, policies for the sea, housing, gender equality, such as political decentralization and forest restructuring, are examples of areas where reform or deepening ongoing reforms is necessary. These are, among other things, dimensions that are present and strengthened in the 2018 budget proposal, along with the challenges facing the reform of Economic and Monetary Union and the support framework after 2020. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already said that this is a budget for continuity of the change we have initiated. Whoever didn't want it and doesn't want it can't agree. But it is not a Budget, as the persistent leader of the PSD depreciates, for the balance between the parties that support the government. It is true that there are prospects for all of them, since then and with the Socialist Party's greatest importance, but it is once again a Budget for the rebalancing of public finances, for the sustainability of social security and, above all, for the balance of policies that help people and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not, as you have leaned on, the still leader of the PSD, a step towards slow death, which, in your words, sometimes takes a long time. Long, too long was the time when his leadership destroyed public systems of education, health, social security, civil protection... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and sentenced thousands of companies, across all regions, to bankruptcy and thousands of Portuguese to unemployment and to State deprotection. That took a long time, a time that, fortunately, ended! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also aware that neither the PS nor the Government are hostages of employers' organisations, trade unions or parties, of any party. We are a whole party of Portugal, we are in the government only hostages of our idea to Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all respect the same and work with everyone to prepare the future now. We are happy when we can benefit from criticism and accept suggestions or proposals. This will also be done in assessing the speciality of the budget proposal, in several areas and in particular in emerging cases of the fire tragedy. We do not follow those who have the power to claim to the detriment of those who do not. We do not follow particular interests that are not included in the national interest. We do not feed a useless state, but do not refrain from training the State that is necessary. We respect the Government's programme which the House has approved, and it is with this programme that we have our most important commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 2018 Budget is projected in the desired and sustainable future. Continue the reduction of public debt started this year, reach a primary surplus balance for the third year followed, after 22 years of negative balances, and recover the business financial sector is to precaution the future. Converging with Europe for the second consecutive year is a good sign for the future. A Budget with the greatest increase in public investment over the past two decades, with strong investments planned for 2018, is to strengthen the future. A fiscal breakdown budget for taxpayers in the IRS, as at the end of the overtax, is a Friendly Budget for the future. A Budget with an increase in pensions—inverse of the threat of the CDS / PSD Government of its reduction in its 600 million euro—, with the enhancement of long-term contribution careers, with the increase of unemployment allowance, the solidarity supplement for the elderly, family allowance, social income for inclusion or the strengthening of the new provision for inclusion is a Budget that protects the future of thousands and thousands of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A Budget that supports the modernization and efficiency of justice, which reinforces investment in civil protection, the National Health Service, education, science and culture is a Budget that thinks about the future. A budget with fiscal measures and funding lines that join the Capitalisation Programme, supporting the private initiative, is a budget that prepares for the future. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : We have good reasons to continue on the chosen path. The course we've already taken shows that it was worth it. We have been, we are and we will be preparing for a better future. [[On your feet, applause from the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u493	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has now spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u494	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: a State budget expects vision and ambition. As a fundamental document, the backbone of the strategic objectives, the political priorities and long-term sustained bets, it is for him to move and evaluate the direction the Government intends to lead the country. Of course, the fairness and the correctness of this statement depends on the seriousness and transparency with which it is first drawn up and then executed. The curriculum of your Government, Prime Minister, in this particular, is all less expensive. When we look at the two fiscal years carried out by the current government — 2016, which is already closed and with the account presented, and 2017, without any novelty the same path, unfortunately we must conclude that this seriousness and budgetary transparency have not changed from disgraceful fictions. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]] As official data and all independent evaluations exuberantly demonstrate, were lying budgets. It was Budgets in whose implementation the government took a 180-degree turn in the declared strategy, reverted objectives, abandoned priorities and gave up betting, without ever giving it to know or have the frontality of recognition. After all, what the Assembly of the Republic had approved and what people, economic agents, and particularly public services had hoped so much, was far from being executed. With complicity it is said that a parliamentary majority who has always pretended not to perceive the farce and systematically preferred to resign itself from the requirement of compliance with the approved, as is the rule in democracy. [[PSD applause.]] The sad spectacle of the spectacle of surprise, tested by the partners of the communist social majority by being exposed and revealed the real expression of the blind cuts operated by the captives, from the historical garrote to public investment or the trajectory of indebtedness and the growth of late payments, only rivals in size with the meekness that appeared, months after time, in the cover of a reality that was impossible to know from them at all. We therefore agree that in budgetary matters there is nothing to build on the behaviour and example of this government and the unique majority of five parties that support it in this House. Still, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to examine and discuss the State budget, to ask ourselves what is the vision and what is the ambition of this document and of the debate that we can hold here. Is this a budget that denotes full consciousness and, without reservation, assumes, in full, the priority of the national emergency of a committed and decisive response to the Pedrogon tragedy, a tragedy that took place four months before its delivery to this House, an emergency desperately reinforced by the collapse of the State in the protection of people and territory last October?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u495	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u496	Is this a budget which is undermining the fact that in the last two years, essential public services — from health to safety, from transport education — have been voted blindly by the government's political option to favour the distribution of money to specific groups, at the cost of quality and, in some cases, of failure or failure to provide public services that the State should all provide? Is this a budget that takes advantage, intelligently, of the favourable winds of the cyclical moment of economic growth, enhanced by the positive conjuncture of our trading partners, by the boom of the revenues provided by tourism, by the fat transfers of dividends from the Banco de Portugal or the low price of oil, to reduce structural expenditure, which is rigid, and to nominally reduce the debt by making effective budgetary consolidation? Is this a budget which places on fiscal stability and incentives for companies and the most dynamic sectors to create the conditions and promote investment capture, sustained wealth creation or dynamize the much needed growth of national savings, which is presumed to be incontrovertible to them? Is this a budget that presents, and allows us to perceive, a sustained development strategy, in the medium and long term, based on a concrete reformist capacity, which enables us to anticipate and respond to the ongoing evolution of our competitors, in an economy that develops in an unstoppable logic of globalisation? Is this a budget that crumbles the way in the foolish adventure of replicating most of the mistakes that brought us in 2011 at the forefront of bankruptcy and that breaks with the stupid idea of believing in the hypothesis that it is possible to do everything in the same way and hope that this time the result will be different? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am sure that each of us can still raise other or more questions, but any Member or Member of this Parliament can, in conscience and without mental reservation, answer affirmatively to all or at least a comfortable majority of the issues raised, issues which must be asked by everyone? on the part of the Democratic Social Party, honestly, we did not find in this Budget nor did we withdraw from the debate that today and yesterday here we held an affirmative answer to any of these issues that are decisive to us. This is, before, a budget which is drawn up by the Government and by the majority that supports it not as a State budget in its own sense, with an understandable strategy of dynamizing development and wealth creation, a strategy that promotes sustained progress in the incomes of people, families and businesses, the quality of life of all Portuguese, and not only of some, which deals with the equitable, without partisan discrimination, the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, a strategy that serves the collective interest and the response to national emergencies. It's drawn, yes, sirs. Members, as a faction budget, whose priorities point to the satisfaction of legitimate but particular interests, of groups, corporations or sectors of society which the majority of parliament considers to integrate, or may be able to integrate, their hard cores of their social and electoral support bases. It is a much more focused budget for your navel than to take care of the future of the country than to take care of the future of the country and of the present and future generations of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Without surprise, then, you will give all your hands to pass it, and we will definitely choose to reject it. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The budgetary debate that now meets its first stage opens the way to a new phase of this Parliament. Disappointed the state of grace with the Portuguese and with signs of exhaustion of media favors, today we live in an undefined political environment, in which the cohesion of the majority that supports and exercises power oscillates between mistrust and dissimulation. While some are not well aware of what they can count on, in others, the duality of behaviors is intensified, now criticizing and distancing themselves, waving up to the threat of a break, or assuming the first line of militant defense, measures and positions, even in flagrant contradiction with what they have always defended and that, to others, they have violently criticized.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u497	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u498	It is an unrecommendable climate, which inevitably accentuates the predisposition for a navigation in sight and that nothing good prenunciation to the country. More than ever, only those who have not realized that they do not see, or do not want to see, the need for political clarification. A political clarification to which the partners of the communist social coalition have so far been olympically stolen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u499	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u500	A clarification, especially in politics, is made only by affirmativeness and not by a heterogeneous sum of negatives. The Government had the opportunity in this House to clarify this by presenting a more than necessary motion of confidence after the unthinkable that happened under its responsibility in the conduct of the State and the Administration. Necessary, Prime Minister, not only for obvious political reasons, given the minority nature of his Government, but above all necessary in the name of the values of decency and democratic humility to which the exercise of power must obey in democracy, under the penalty of those who do not deserve it. If the answer had been negative, the country was saved by the parties who formally supported it by their faithful vote in this House, for on the streets and in the media area they fueled controversy, here and there simulated indignation and objectively conditioning the options. If the answer had been positive, then, yes, there would be an effective strengthening of the government's mandate which, as a minority, would become a mere opportunistic parliamentary majority to rely on the support of a no longer hidden majority of government. The truth is that the Prime Minister did not have the political courage to face up to this clarification, to remove the current misconceptions and to legitimize his authority for the adoption of difficult measures and for the unacceptable consensus that governance has ahead. Once again, political survival spoke higher than the sense of state and national interest. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The perverseness of this option of weakness has been very evident in these two days of debate. The procession has not yet come out of the quay and we have already seen a rope stretch between the benches of the majority and the government that leads us to predict the worst, not because of the risk of discharacterising the Budget, since its characteristics, everything is recommended. The problem is precisely the opposite, it is to aggravate everything that he has most wrong, penalizing more companies, crushing their competitiveness, or adding more fixed expenditure to the revenue cover that is conjunctural, exactly the error that placed us in the dependence of external taxes, in 2011. The attitude of the Prime Minister and the Socialist Members, as well as some bloggers and communists, in multiple interventions in this debate, was, moreover, very enlightening. in the absence of its own political authority, they opted, in the third year of budgetary responsibility, for the ridiculousness of shaking the popes of the previous government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u501	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u502	...in a clear effort to revive those who know how to be the only cement that unites the communist social majority and thus try to appease the most histrionic claims. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I have no idea if they will succeed in this poor and defensive attitude, but we all realize that she is the daughter of the weakness in which you have put yourself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u503	They're very strong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u504	The Democrat Social Bank will not enter this barge, this auction to see who gives the most. [[PS protests.]] The proposals that we will make, in the specialty, will seek to correct particularly serious aspects of your proposal and to set out public measures and policies that the country is not, but should be, continuing. And it should be to respond to unacceptable emergencies, to take advantage of the growth situation, preventing the repetition of the troubles we experienced in 2011, to deal with the present preparing for the future, to think in Portugal and in Portuguese and not on the political survival of the current government solution. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u505	On behalf of the Government and to close the debate, I call on the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u506	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The debate on the State budget for 2018 made it quite clear that the proposal presented by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic, and that will be voted on, is balanced, socially fair and stimulates economic growth and job creation. In 2016, in the first State Budget of this Government, we demonstrated that it was possible to reconcile more economic growth, better employment and greater equality with the balance of public accounts. In 2017, once again, we meet the budgetary targets and do so - at the same time as the income replacement policy continues, ending cuts in wages and pensions and with the overtax of IRS. In 2018, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the novelty is that the value of the deficit is no longer a novelty. Our policy has resulted in the strongest economic growth cycle since 2000, above the growth of our European partners and based on a strong investment and export dynamics. Exports will grow by more than 8 % this year, largely as a result of the growth of our market share in destination markets, improving the balance of trade and the country's funding capacity. Investment will grow more than 7 %, with emphasis on investment in machinery and equipment, which exceeds 15 % of growth, increasing the productive capacity of the national economy. The continued improvement in the economic situation results in a reduction in the number of unemployed to the lowest value since 2004 and the creation of nearly 230 000 jobs since the beginning of the legislature. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are not surprised at the reaction of the parties on the right in this debate, who consider this to be a bad budget. We understand that they think so, because we know — and the Portuguese know – how the Budget would be if they had continued in the government. It would be more an austerity budget, such as those Budgets that punished the Portuguese over four years, in which they dealt with the crisis adding more crisis, transforming the country into any laboratory of ideologies,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in which they cut wages and paid pensions, in which they brutally increased taxes, particularly those that affected families, and in which they razed economic activity, leading unemployment to unimaginable values and forcing hundreds of thousands of Portuguese to emigration. Even so, after they left the government, they continued to believe in the miraculous effects of impoverishing austerity and to defend that the current government was ruining the country. The PSD became a disgrace and announced the devil to each corner. Contrary to reality, he saw himself without direction, without speech, without proposals and now without leader. in a movement of acrobatic gymnastics, in an authentic flic-flac behind an inert and headless body, they come against everything they have said and, without the act of contrition that was required, they now claim for more investment in public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u507	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u508	The CDS, which changed its leader as soon as it left the government, wants to make it appear that it did not even participate in it. For those who talk so much in health it seems even a clinical case: the CDS was attacked by a serious case of amnesia. [[P.S.'s applause.]] His leader does not remember that he was in the government and that he applied and defended austerity policies and does not remember that when he left the government just two years ago there were almost 50 % more unemployed than now and that both the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Employment were from his party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's good that the CDS leader remembers, because the Portuguese, these, they don't forget. We understand that all this choreography and argumentative exuberance of the CDS leader is only a form of affirmation in the political space on the right, a sort of primary right, in which, together with the candidates for PSD leadership, the CDS seems to have also decided to compete. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite what the parties on the right are saying, the Budget will make its way. This is a budget that outlines a prudent macroeconomic scenario and sets realistic objectives, as pointed out by the various institutions and how our interest rates continue to confirm. The State Budget for 2018 continues the cycle of economic growth and convergence with our European partners, contributing to the creation of more and better jobs. This is a budget which, for the third consecutive year, allows the lowest deficit in the history of Portuguese democracy to be realized. Let us not be mistaken as to the importance of this outcome. This is a Budget which, because of budgetary responsibility, achieves a sustained reduction in debt, making between 2016 and 2018 we have the greatest reduction in public debt in the last 19 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must be clear on this point: the high level of accumulated public debt is a weight for future generations, but it is also a weight for this generation. The country's high public debt burdens are resources taken away from the economy and essential public services. We must therefore continue to reduce these burdens by combining sustained economic growth and by continuing to reduce the public deficit. thus, we reduce the debt stock and contribute to reduce interest rates, due to the confidence generated in markets. With the implementation of this strategy in 2018, debt interest charges will be more than EUR 1000 million lower than they were in 2015. They are resources that we can direct to investment in essential public services and that enable us to pursue policies that make the difference to the previous government and improve the lives of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2018, we will continue to invest these resources in policies that bring more justice and social equality. This will be achieved, in particular, by improving the income of families, which will benefit from the increase in IRS levels and the increase in pensions, and also through measures such as increased family allowance and appreciation of long-term careers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State Budget for 2018 will also include the resources necessary to give shape to two reforms that the country cannot dispense: forest reform and reform of the rural fire management and prevention system. The tragic events of this year have become too evident that the reform of the forest is necessary, which we had launched well before the beginning of this summer, and to profoundly transform the system of prevention and combating rural fires. We will not struggle to implement these reforms and the State Budget for 2018 will have to contain the resources necessary to implement them. In order to meet other important needs of the country, the Budget will also record the largest growth in public investment for many years, which will be up to 40 %, representing around EUR 4500 million. overall, in 2018, public investment will grow to 2, 3 % of GDP, contributing with a significant boost to economic and employment growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will be crucial investments that will enable the basic investments already made to be valued, that will allow for synergies and that will enhance existing resources, particularly those with the greatest impact on people's quality of life and on the development of critical factors of the country's success and competitiveness. This will be the case, for example, of the investments in the railway, which have been mentioned here today, for which more than 360 million euros are destined in 2018, with a view to achieving the 2020 railway, the largest programme of modernisation of the national rail network that there is memory in recent times and which in 2018 will have nearly 800 km of roads with works on the ground or with contracts launched for the implementation of the planned investments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] next year, we will have public works and investment on the ground on all major railway axes, including in the South International Corridor in the connection of the port of Sines to Europe or the Beira Baixa Line, with a view to reopening the link between Covilhã and Guarda, which has been closed for about a decade. Critical investments will also be those that will be carried out in the hospital area, in the rehabilitation of health centres, in the construction of new health equipment, in the acquisition of equipment, for example, in the field of oncology, which we have already spoken about here. These are investments that value the National Health Service and will be articulated with the placement of 400 new specialists in general and family medicine and with the expansion of the continuing care network. More than 70 new pre-school rooms will be opened and investment in the retraining and equipment of our schools will be strengthened. The growth of public investment in 2018 will also improve the equipment of the security forces and services, modernize military equipment and acquire new light helicopters for the Air Force, which will be equipped with fire fighting devices. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Investments that I will list and others that, by means of time, I do not mention, will lead to an increase in central government investment of more than EUR 720 million. In addition to central administration, local and regional administration will also increase sharply in investment, which will exceed EUR 2000 million, increasing more than 38 % compared to what is expected to happen in the current year. These are public investments of proximity, requalification of schools, cultural heritage and urban rehabilitation of cities and villages. The role of urban regeneration and the rehabilitation of heritage today is unquestionable in the quality of life of the people and in the economic revitalization of the territories, through tourism but also through the dynamisation of local economic actors. With the impetus of the State budget and the mobilisation of European funds, we are making public investment, real public investment, Mrs and Mrs. Members, already launched and much investment already contracted. What has been designated here as « historical public investment garrote » resulted from the fact that last quarter of this year was the best of the last 25 years on investment launched, as stated yesterday by the Association of Civil Construction and Public Works Industries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, we are also supporting private investment. contrary to PSD, in 2017 we will beat all business investment incentive payment records. It may seem unlikely and sometimes may confuse us, but we have even passed from 4 million incentives paid at the end of two years of implementation of Portugal 2020 to more than EUR 1250 million at the end of two years of action by the current government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] More: by 2018, we set the ambitious goal of reaching the EUR 2000 million of compensation payments on an investment account made by companies. In addition to the strong quantitative momentum that Portugal 2020's support is giving to business investment, I would like to emphasise four more aspects. First, Portugal 2020, as we have been implementing it, is helping to transform the specialisation profile of the Portuguese economy. Much of the approved support is intended for high- or medium-high-tech investments and technological intensity, increasing the weight of the most advanced sectors in the national economy. Second, the strong increase that has been given to projects to carry out in co-promotion between companies and entities of the National Scientific and Technological System, such as universities, polytechnics or research centers. More than EUR 400 million of investment in co-promotion is already approved, which represents more than twice as much of the approved in the QREN counterpart period ( National Strategic Reference Framework ). Innovation in the economy is one of the major challenges facing the country, so the strong dynamics of collaboration and transfer of knowledge that is being established can only satisfy us all. The third aspect I would like to highlight is the contribution of Portugal 2020 to the increase in exports. It is verified that among the companies with projects approved in Portugal 2020, almost doubles the rate of those that pass to exporters due to the execution of these projects. Fourthly, the extensive list of measures to support the capitalisation of companies in this Budget is always aimed at strengthening the investment capacity of the business fabric. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the conclusion of this debate and the vote on the State budget, in general, another important stage will be to start-CL, the debate on the speciality budget. This is therefore the time of Parliament that the Government has already given clear signs of respect. But at the time we discuss decisive options for next year, I would like to say that the country has collectively assigned to us the responsibility to prepare Portugal for the challenges of the future. In September, we started the public discussion of the country's objectives for the next decade, holding a series of hearings with the Economic and Social Council, with the Social Concertation, with the National Council for Social Economy, among many other civil society entities, including entities linked to the territory, the sea, knowledge, innovation or demography. Together with these entities we sought to hear what civil society considers to be the objectives for the next decade, for Portugal 2030. For the same purpose, we launched a website on the Internet — Portuguese2030.pt — so that everyone can contribute to their reflections. With this cycle, we inaugurated the reflection on the next decade in our country. A decade that must be in line with our European partners, so that the country, the whole country, from the continent to the autonomous regions, is more competitive, socially fairer, more territorially more cohesive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in closing this debate in general, I would like here to express, on behalf of the Government, that we believe that reflection on Portugal 2030 is a matter for all and we will not cease to discuss with the political forces and bring the subject here in the Assembly of the Republic, so that together we can build the best consensus to define the strategic lines for the development of the country in the long term. Our collective future, as well as that of our children, is too important for anyone to stay out of this discussion. If we can expect the parties on the right to vote against a State Budget of our Government, even when it is notoriously good for the country, Portuguese would hardly accept that this would happen in relation to the major strategic lines for the next decade, well after the current political cycle. We are committed to building the necessary consensus and believe that it will rule the sense of responsibility of all, because the country needs and the Portuguese deserve it. on the side of the government, has a single ambition: to achieve an ever better Portugal. Today and tomorrow, we fight to build Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u509	Mrs. Members, we have thus reached the end of the debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. With regard to motion for a resolution No 55 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco in Internal Security Matters, signed in Lisbon on 20 April 2015 — point 3 of our agenda — a report that no time has been allocated. We therefore proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I request the services to carry out the quorum verification using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, however, Secretary Duarte Pacheco has several information to give to the House. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u510	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No 657 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Aves and Lordelo of the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Guimarães ( PSD ), Parliamentary assessment No 53 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October establishing the social benefit for inclusion ( PCP ) and draft resolution No 1111/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government set up a special support programme for Portuguese people to be set up in Portugal as a result of serious political, economic and humanitarian crises in countries where they reside ( PSD ), which falls to 2. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u511	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 227 presences to which one is added, by the Member of the CFP Paula Santos, making 228 presences. We are therefore in a position to start the voting period, starting with the general vote on Bill No 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. Let us now, in general, vote on Bill No. 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] [[PS applause, stand up.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. Mrs. Members, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read vote No 429 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the New York attack, submitted by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u512	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last October 31st a terrorist attack made eight fatal victims and eleven wounded in New York City. An open box van led by the attacker crashed into a school bus and intentionally hit defenseless people, families and children, who were walking in Manhattan, prepared to celebrate Halloween. Terrorism is a threat that knows no borders. Therefore, the response of States must be comprehensive, cooperative and solidarity. To the families and friends of the victims, the people and the authorities of the United States of America, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret and its deepest solidarity. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u513	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. Mrs. Members, Secretary António Carlos Monteiro will read vote No 426/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the inclusion of Amarante, Barcelos and Braga in the UNESCO Creative Cities Network, presented by the CDS-PP, PS, PS, BE and PCP. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u514	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on October 31, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) classified Amarante, Barcelos and Braga as Creative Cities. Braga was distinguished in the category of Media Arts, Barcelos in the category of Crafts and Popular and Amarante Art in the category of Music. Created in 2004, the UNESCO Creative Cities Network is part of the United Nations Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development and the New Urban Agenda and aims to strengthen cooperation between cities that consider innovation, creativity and cultural diversity as strategic factors for more sustainable and inclusive urban development. Amarante, Barcelos and Braga now join Óbidos and Idanha-a-Nova, already classified in the categories of Literature and Music, respectively, in a network that already has 180 cities in 72 countries. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the classification of Amarante, Barcelos and Braga as Creative Cities".
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u515	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, Secretary António Carlos Monteiro will read vote No 427/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings for the award of the Sakharov Prize to the Venezuelan democratic opposition presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PSD Members. You have the word Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u516	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last October 26th, the Venezuelan democratic opposition was awarded with the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, the highest distinction attributed by the European institutions to whom it stands out in the defence of human rights. Through the President of the National Assembly of Venezuela, elected in December 2015 and de facto deposited last July, and of the 439 political prisoners, the European Parliament expressed public recognition of the high spirit of resistance and bravery shown by the Venezuelan opposition in its willingness to walk on the tracks of freedom against repression of the regime. in this expression, the European Parliament also pays tribute to all the people of Venezuela, which is the biggest victim of the international isolation of the current regime and certainly took into account that the political and economic crisis has become a humanitarian crisis resulting from food shortages, the lack of drugs and the suspension of the supply of energy. The situation in Venezuela must deserve a renewed concern from the European institutions. This praise reflects a relevant political signal, but we cannot ignore the dramatic situation in which millions of Venezuelans and thousands of Europeans live there, including over 400,000 Portuguese and Luso-descendants. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the allocation of the 2017 Sakharov Prize to the Venezuelan democratic opposition and expresses the hope that this distinction will contribute to a peaceful, democratic and inclusive solution to the crisis in that country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u517	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u518	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u519	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u520	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u521	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u522	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u523	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 428 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Protest by the arrest of members of the Catalan Regional Government, submitted by BE and the NAP. I ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u524	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: 'The order of preventive detention of eight members of the Government of Catalonia shames all and all Democrats. The constitution of political prisoners is another step towards sharpening the political situation in Catalonia and an obstacle to any democratic solution. The Ministers now arrested were part of a democratically elected government, which peacefully defended their political positions. The conduct of the Catalan process by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain deserves to be condemned by the democratic countries. That is why it is incomprehensible that the official document sent by the Government of Portugal to the Government of the Kingdom of Spain with its position: not recognizing the independence of the Republic of Catalonia and the defence of the legality of the Spanish State, without a single reference to the need to find solutions to the Catalan question that respect the right of self-determination of the Catalan people and which are based on democratic principles. Even more incomprehensible than the content of this message sent by the Portuguese Government is the way it was prepared: clearly based on a minute that was broadcast by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, where it was given the indication of the position that should be taken with regard to the proclamation of the independence of the Republic of Catalonia. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its protest: 1 — the term of arrest of governors of the Catalan Regional Government and the constitution of these political prisoners; 2 — the issue by the Portuguese Government of a message which reflected the essential of the position of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain regarding the proclamation of the independence of Catalonia. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u525	Mrs. Members, the Left Block has asked for a separate vote of the two points. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the members of the PS Helena Roseta, Isabel Alves Moreira, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Pedro Bacelar Vasconcelos and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and the abstention of the PS deputy Ascenso Simões.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions by the Members of the PS Helena Roseta and Pedro Bacelar Vasconcelos.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 55 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco in Internal Security Matters, signed in Lisbon on 20 April 2015. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE and the PAN and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u526	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u527	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u528	Mr President, it is to indicate that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will deliver a written statement of vote on this vote and on the vote on vote No 427 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), submitted by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u529	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, we shall vote for an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u530	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Local Court Cable of Montijo, of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Case No 4909 / 17.4IUPRT, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Duarte Pacheco to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-03.u531	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The next plenary meeting will be on 22 November, Wednesday, with the debate, in the specialty, of the proposals of lein. 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. I am grateful for the collaboration in the conduct of these works and I wish everyone and all a good night. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 27 minutes.]]
