ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, Secretary Pedro Alves will read the file, which is vast. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. The projects of lein.os 399 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates the mission unit for the review of the judicial costs regime ( CFP ), 400 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reduces the price of road gas through the level of incorporation of biofuels ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 401 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extends the ISP reimbursement scheme to companies in the production sectors ( PCP ), which is lower than 5. the Commission, 402 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — creates the conditions for the replacement of the special payment on account by a simplified scheme based on technical-economic coefficients by sector of activity ( CFP ), 403 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Expands the number of undertakings covered by the VAT system ( CFP ), which is lower than 5. the Commission, 404 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — It makes it clear that the charge of seal tax on commissions charged to traders falls on the financial system ( CFP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 405 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures the right to joint custody of minors for the purposes of IRS ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 406 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Promotes gender equality in the composition of State administration bodies ( BE ), 407 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Simplifies and prevents possible fraud in the allocation of social mobility allowance to residents in the autonomous regions ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 408 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensure access to the law and courts by making the benefit of the exemption of more comprehensive judicial costs ( PAN) and 409 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure access to the law and courts by introducing amendments to the Rules of Procedure ( PAN ). In addition, draft resolutions 653 / XIII ( 2 ) were introduced. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in consultation with the competent authorities, undertake a set of actions aimed at depolating the Vizela River ( PSD ), 654 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Combats job insecurity in the Port Metro ( PCP ) system, which falls to 6. the Commission, 655 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent regulation of the activity and exercise of other duly qualified personnel of the non-pharmaceutical framework ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 656 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government immediately reverse the increase in the cost of tolls of A22, maintaining its freezing until the requalification works of EN125 are completed ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 657 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the urgent requalification of the Basic School of the 2. o is 3. the High Cycles of Lumiar ( PS ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 658 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reorganization of the network of offices to assist victims of domestic violence by GNR and PSP ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 659 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment and revision of the Rules of Procedure ( PSD ), 660 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government study, evaluate and implement new measures that improve the conditions for access to law and justice ( PS ), 661 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an urgent investigation into pollution incidents in the Vizela River by identifying the causes and those responsible for the clearance of counter-ordinary and criminal responsibilities and, in conjunction with the municipalities and entities involved, develop a surveillance plan, prevention, control and mitigation, to ultimately depolulate the Vizela River and recover the entire surrounding area ( CDS-PP ), 662 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Depollution of the river Vizela with the involvement of the municipalities ( The Greens ), 663 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures for depollution of the river Vizela ( BE ), 664 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcão High School in Coimbra ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 665 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Purpose to prevent the use of nuclear energy ( The Greens) and 666 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the system of access to law and courts and the Rules of Procedure ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the first item on the agenda, which is made up of political statements. For a political declaration, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A process of decentralization of competence requires the recovery and affirmation of the autonomy of the local authority, requires a clear and sustained framework of conditions for the transfer of competences, requires a financing regime with the necessary means, implementation stability and foreseeable evolution and requires the replacement of organizational, material and human conditions. The CFP today announces the presentation of a series of legislative initiatives on these issues because we will participate and contribute to this debate with concrete proposals. We will present: a draft framework law which strictly defines the conditions for the transfer of competences to the authorities, the conditions for their exercise and the articulation with the various levels of administration; a financing scheme based on a new local finance law that respects the constitutional principle of fair distribution of State resources, ensures the conditions of stability in its application and recovers the levels of funding denied by successive defaults and cuts of amounts; a draft law for the creation of metropolitan authority with competences centred on the articulation, planning and coordination of functions and networks of metropolitan dimension that breaks with the hybrid model of municipal associative entity of force; and two initiatives for the creation of administrative regions as a condition of a decentralization strategy, with the establishment of a timetable and methodology to ensure its implementation for 2019, as well as its framework of allocations and competences in conjunction with the other levels of State power. [[PCP applause.]] Today, as in the past, the CFP will be present in defense of the affirmation and enhancement of local autonomy, consistent with a state organization based on decentralization, with the ability to respond more effectively to the demands that arise, to provide better public service, thus contributing to the improvement of its quality and living conditions of the populations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, being decentralization one of the constitutional principles for the organization of the State, a serious, deep and broad reflection is required, which does not go along with hasty timetables. A process of decentralization of competences should aim to improve the accessibility and quality of public service to populations, increase the effectiveness of response and improve the ability to solve problems in various areas, requiring a thorough assessment of which level of power is most appropriate for the exercise of each of the competences. when addressing the democratic decentralization of the state, the absence of an intermediate power is a reality that makes clear the need for its creation. It is not possible to move forward towards an effective, rational and sustained process of decentralization without the establishment of the administrative regions, as our Constitution provides. Regionalisation fulfils three essential objectives of a truly decentralized policy: it gives consistency to a clear and transparent delimitation of tasks and competences between the various levels of administration (central, regional and local); it creates the conditions for a regional development policy, with the active participation of the authorities and economic and social actors; and guarantees the defence of the autonomy of local power. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the defence of the autonomy of local power and the strengthening of the participatory component in the life of the state requires a policy based on decentralization. However, decentralization cannot be evaluated in the abstract. Its realisation in the interests of the people requires the conditions for their full exercise. The experience of the past is not promising, either by the solutions adopted clearly conditioned by the absence of a decisive level of power within the framework of delimitation of competences, or by the persistent sub-financing that accompanied the authorities or by the continuing will of non-compliance with the existing financial regimes and the restriction and interference in local autonomy, which has been greatly aggravated in the recent past. The financial asphyxiation imposed on the authorities by PSD and CDS, together with the annihilation of their autonomy, greatly hampered the activity of intervention, the consequences of which are still felt today. I would say that the first priority is to restore the conditions for the current competences to be fully achieved. The decentralization of competences requires the identification and evaluation of its impacts and its outlook for evolution in terms of financial, human, organizational and material conditions. The administrative and financial autonomy of the authorities is a condition for the full exercise of the powers and powers. Otherwise, what is being done is to transfer new charges and unsolved problems, whose resolution will remain compromised. Decentralization cannot mean the deresponsibility of the State, it cannot correspond to the transfer of burdens and discontent of the people in relation to what is uncomfortable for the government, passing the hatred to others, cannot call into question the universality of social functions of the State and constitutional rights, nor introduce more inequalities and asymmetries between the territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u6	The proximity and knowledge of concrete reality are aspects that we value. The central issue, however, is not near, nor in the best knowledge of reality, but in ensuring the appropriate means to respond to each specific situation or problem. The principle of subsidiarity does not apply to the nearest level of exercise of a given competence, but rather to the identification of the level of administration which is in a better position to exercise closely. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u7	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. There are those who insist on dealing with decentralization, deconcentration and transfer of competences as if it were all the same. Without prejudice to the role of the structures in the organization of the administration of the State — in fact, increasingly reduced and remote from the populations and territories — deconcentration has been presented and defended in opposition to decentralization, deceiving its different nature. Decentralisation implies the power to execute, but also, and necessarily, the power to decide. It is in this sense that our proposals will go. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u9	I am taking advantage of your request to the Members. Members who, during the speech of the recorded speaker for their political declaration, sign up when they wish to request clarification. I'm aware that four Mrs have signed up. Members to request clarification from Mrs Paula Santos and that the honourable Member responds firstly to two Mrs Paula Santos. Ladies and gentlemen, then the other two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u10	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Berta Cabral of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to thank the CFP for bringing this issue today to the debate after yesterday's hearing with the Deputy Minister. It is indeed an opportunity for each party in plenary to be able to emphasise, define and clarify its position on this issue of decentralization. I can also point out that the CFP, a party supporting the government, brings us here through Mrs Paula Santos, a distinct speech, a distinct model—distinct in its timetable and distinct in its amplitude—but the parties supporting the Government will know how to understand this matter. That's not our problem. For us, for the PSD, this is a very important matter, because it is important for the country and for the Portuguese. The PSD, as it is known, was the first party to put this issue on the parliamentary agenda, and put it, of course, in the discussion of the State Budget for 2017. Our proposals are known and, as you know, they have already entered Parliament in January. This is a debate that, for us, is worth it and we are in it with the seriousness and responsibility that characterize the performance of the PSD. We are awaiting the presentation of the proposals of the Government and of the various parties, and we are also awaiting the availability of the majority to move towards a path of convergence of positions that will enable legislation to serve the interests of the authorities and the populations, that is, the Portuguese in general. I would, however, like to make it clear that on the restructuring of coordination committees...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u12	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u13	... we believe that the Government's proposal, which was given to us by the Minister, does not correspond to what we consider to be decentralisation ; on the contrary, it has the autarchs as if they were agents of the central administration, setting up for us a genuine attack on the autonomy of the local power. This has to be very clear! So, what I'm telling you, Mrs....
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u14	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u15	... and because we consider this convergence of positions important, is whether the CFP is available to make this path of convergence to achieve legislation serving Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u16	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Amador of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Paula Santos, this issue of decentralization and strengthening the powers of the local power is, for the Socialist Party, a structural issue. It is a theme that is included in our Election Programme, in the Agenda for the Decade and in the Government's Programme and is treated as a vital element for the reform of the State, a state that is too centralist and that now, above all, has to make a qualitative leap, deepening, entrusting and fulfilling constitutional arrangements in relation to decentralization, autonomy of local power and subsidiarity. It is therefore very appropriate to bring this subject to the collation, also taking into account the last statement made by the PS on the 40 years of local power, the presence of the Deputy Minister yesterday to talk about this subject and the announcement of the proposals that you have made. Members will bring this House together with the PSD and the CDS, which have been announced as well as those of the Socialist Party. As the Socialist Party wished and the Government wished, this is a subject that calls on everyone—convenes the Assembly of the Republic, convenes all the political actors—because it is a theme for the future for a country that we want more developed, more prosperous and, above all, fairer and more cohesive. And this is done only by a clear and unequivocal participation of the local power. What I wanted to convey to you, Madam Member, is that the Socialist Party has given unequivocal signs, with the State Budget of 2016 and, now, with the last State Budget, with regard to what it believes should be the role of local power. And it began by giving an unequivocal signal, restating its autonomy, which was violated, which was suffocated for four and a half years. Do so, transferring and increasing more money to local authorities, amending a set of legislation, such as the Law of Commitments, and also the organic agility that municipalities need and that, over four and a half years, they did not, having been badly abused by the PSD/CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u18	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u19	This autonomy is restored, the environment of trust between government and authorities is restored and this is the right time for us to talk about decentralization, to look at all the proposals and, above all, plurally, in a consensual way, we can deepen this path where local power runs with development and democratization. That is what we want: to deepen local democracy. We will also have here the bill of law, of the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u20	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u21	...so that we can all find the best solutions for a more cohesive country. And this cohesion will only be made with more competence for municipalities and for the parish. I believe that, on this path, we will find the best solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u22	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u23	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions addressed to me by Mrs Berta Cabral and Mrs Susana Amador. Starting with Mrs Berta Cabral's considerations on this subject, I would like to mention two aspects, the first of which is already recurring: the CFP's Parliamentary Group has its own analysis, its own diagnosis, its own positions and its own proposals, and this is where we are speaking in this debate on these matters. We are talking about the decentralization and organization of the State and the CFP has been presenting proposals on this subject for a long time. We have not agreed on the problem today, and in this sense we will continue to work. In fact, it was precisely because it is a matter of great relevance to the CFP, which we today announced the delivery of five legislative initiatives, including on the framework law for the transfer of competences to the authorities, with all the conditions of exercise, a new regime of local finance, the creation of metropolitan authority and the creation of administrative regions, because it makes no sense to speak of decentralization, it makes no sense to speak of proximity, it makes no sense to speak of State organization without placing this issue which, for us, is absolutely essential when we talk about State organisation, which is the creation of administrative regions. In fact, there are a number of tasks and competences that are not well in central administration, but the solution does not go through local administration either.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u25	It is clear and clear to all that regionalisation, the creation of administrative regions, is a lack, an absence which becomes increasingly evident. Let us bring this proposal to the debate. With regard to what Mrs Susana Amador has said, the consideration or comment I would like to make was that, if we agree with a principle of decentralization, we need to see in what conditions. And then it is necessary to take into account the financial conditions, human conditions, organizational conditions, material conditions, because indeed the authorities are still in a complicated situation, due to those which were the political options of the previous Government. We cannot fail to take this into account and also take into account the current context and the consolidation of the means for the exercise of the powers that the authorities have to ensure today. from that we understand that in this debate, in addition to stating and verifying what competences are that they are well in local power, of course we need to see the conditions for their exercise. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u26	To request clarification, Mr Álvaro Castello-White has the floor now of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Paula Santos, said in her political statement here, the intention of the Communist Party to present a legislative initiative aimed at implementing administrative regions, that is to say, regionalisation in Portugal. Madam President, on this subject, the question I would like to ask you is the following: as we all know — it is public and well known — that regionalisation has been refused, by reference to the Portuguese people, does not understand that the possible implementation of a regionalisation should be preceded by a new referendum or, at least, by a broad public debate on this issue, in respect of the desire expressed by the Portuguese people, in the referendum, to refuse regionalisation?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u29	I ask you, Madam Member, if it will not be premature to present a legislative initiative going beyond the will of the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u30	Who told you that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u31	... thus attempting to implement a regionalization, which we know is an ancient aspiration of the PCP but which was set aside in this referendum that I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u32	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u33	Madam President, at least I think that a broad public debate on this matter is not a minor issue, it is a fundamental issue for the country to follow one or another path. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I would like to know what your opinion on this particular issue is. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u34	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this matter to debate. from our point of view, the process of decentralization is not only an instrument, it is a way of designing the State, the organization of the State and the Public Administration. A centralised administration away from the direct scrutiny of citizens, an administration outside the capacity of will and scrutiny of citizens is a reduced administration. from our point of view, the Public Administration, the State must in fact be decentralised, because it must have its various scales, with its own powers and means, with organs with its own legitimacy, with organs elected directly by the citizens in their geographical areas. What we are concerned about is that the proposals we have seen so far do not specifically provide for this issue, which is that of decentralization to bodies with their own democratic legitimacy. The process of decentralization should serve to give more participation, more capacity for decision-making to populations on the options and development paths of their regions, their geographical areas; it cannot be a mere scheme of municipalization of competences; it cannot be a scheme to challenge the universality of the competences of the social state. And, no doubt, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, the process of regionalisation is a process that must be in the horizon of any decentralization perspective. I understand the concerns about the consultation of populations, but it must be said that it would no longer be the first time a referendum would lead to a decision contrary to a previous referendum. This is perfectly plausible and it is clear that a process such as this would always have to lead to a great public debate, to a great involvement of the citizens in this debate. But the question is this: I do not see, by both the CDS and the PSD, and even the Socialist Party, the placement on the horizon of the regionalization process. And, in fact, by not putting the regionalisation process on the horizon,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u36	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u37	... as a form of decentralization, they are jeopardizing reality, virtuality of decentralisation, which is the approximation of the will of the citizens, the possibility of citizens deciding on policies for their geographical areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u38	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u39	I will now finish, Mr President. The question I put, Mrs Paula Santos, is whether or not she considers that the issue of regionalization is a central problem and that, unfortunately, there are still several parliamentary groups that do not have the courage to take advantage of it and seem to continue to adopt what was the policy of former Minister Miguel Relvas on the subject. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u40	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Álvaro Castello-Branco and Mr. Pedro Soares, I also thank the questions put. Addressing Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, initially, contrary to what you and the PSD did when they were in the government and made a number of decisions, including the extinction of fregetes, against the will of the people,... [[Well, well...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u42	... ignoring what has been the position of the peoples and the local bodies, without any discussion, we want to see the proposals we are going to bring to the Assembly of the Republic being, in fact, widely discussed, and in this sense we will be speaking, opening up this debate on the issues of decentralization and regionalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u44	Mr Álvaro Castello-White, only those who do not know the PCP and those who are our values ask the question you have asked, totally disproposed. You don't understand that question well. The Constitution in its Article 256. the, requires popular consultation for the creation of administrative regions. It is in this sense that the proposal of the CFP, that is, what we propose is that the creation of the administrative regions, as it could not fail to be, be in accordance with our Constitution and that it complies with the constitutional rules and principles.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u45	Exactly! It's a big difference in relation to the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u46	What we want to do is do this debate, which is quite different from what you want. You want to keep a concentrated state—in fact, while they were in the government, they closed several decentralised services of the state, creating numerous difficulties for the populations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u48	... contributing thus to greater asymmetries and greater inequalities in our territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u49	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u50	Mrs. Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco and Mr Soares, of course the issues of regionalization assume a centrality for the CFP in this debate when talking about decentralization. It makes no sense to want to move forward in a process of decentralization, in a genuine process of democratic decentralization, in accordance with our Constitution, without taking account of the need for the creation of administrative regions. Moreover, the realization by itself of this debate raises the question of the need to look at the set of tasks and competences and to see what is the level of state in which they can best fit and be exercised shows the need for the creation of administrative regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u52	The CFP, as stated here, will bring this debate and make its contribution because we believe it is absolutely strategic for the development of our country. As I stated in the political declaration, regionalisation has three essential objectives: it gives consistency to a clear and transparent delimitation of tasks and competences between the various levels of administration; it creates the conditions for a regional development policy, with the active participation of the authorities, economic and social actors and the people; and it respects and guarantees the autonomy of the democratic local power. The PCP knows which side you're on. In view of this urgent need of our country and to give body and compliance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, we will see how you will behave. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u53	Mr Hugo Soares, from the PSD, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In January 2016, the Government announced to the country, in a dramatic way, that the General Deposit Box was in a distressing situation, from the point of view of its sustainability. As a matter of urgency, the Government has announced an urgent need for capitalisation of the General Deposit Box in the order of EUR 5000 million. It was, then, urgent and vital for the public bank, essential for the financial system. But the so-called 'emergency' gave rise to a misunderstanding. More than a year has passed and not 1 € this government has placed in the public bank! Repeat: The government has not yet put 1 € in the General Deposit Box. The urgent one, after all, had time. The hole, after all, was so bad projections by Dr. Centeno, as director of macroeconomic studies of Banco de Portugal. A year went by and the government did not put €1 in the General Deposit Box. [[PSD applause.]] This is the first, naked and raw truth that the Portuguese should know.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u55	Don't say nonsense! That's not true! They're just crazy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u56	But what is missing in euro remained in opacity, in lack of transparency and in lack of shame. The second truth that the Portuguese have the right to know is why the General Deposit Box needs EUR 5000 million of money from the Portuguese taxpayers. And there began the construction of a wall against the truth. PS, PCP and Left Block dropped a commission of inquiry. When the PSD proposed a commission of authoritative inquiry, PS, PCP and Left Block dropped the object of the commission of inquiry. [[BE's protests.]] When the PSD wanted to hear Dr. Armando Vara, Delloitte, McKinsey, Dr. Manuel Bandeira, among others who had responsibilities in the General Deposit Box in the last 10 years, the PS, the Left Block and PCP dropped these auditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u57	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u58	When the PSD wanted documents, the PS, the PCP and the Left Block dropped. When PSD wanted to hear Antonio Domingues and Mário Centeno, PS, PCP and Left Block plummeted. When the PSD presented power requirements, the PS, PCP and the Left Block plummeted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u59	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u60	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u61	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Committee of Inquiry, you do not allow questions, because you are afraid of the answers. [[PSD applause.]] in this Committee of Inquiry, you are not allowed to hear candidates because you are afraid of what you will hear. in this Committee of Inquiry, you do not want documents because you are afraid of what you will read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u62	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u63	You guys are scared. Fear, submission and lack of transparency. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a committee of inquiry is, it has to be, exactly the opposite. There must be courage, independence and transparency. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u64	That's all you've missed! [[PSD applause.]] This behaviour, which is unpublished — I repeat, never happened — not only calls into question the functioning of that Parliamentary Inquiry Commission, as impossible until the discovery of the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u65	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u66	But worse: you, with this behaviour, do not dignify parliamentary life. They desecrate the Assembly of the Republic and even question the normal functioning of the institutions. He's a boycott for democracy! [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] It is a conjuncural majority that prevents, like a compressor roll, the free exercise of the scrutiny of Members and prohibits the information that all Portuguese require to know. The PS has resigned from the discovery of truth and has the perfect accomplices in the PCP and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u68	It says the popular adage that « always fear is born of guilt». in this case, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party share guilt and fear. What is the price of this complicity? It's about what, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party? [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, during this afternoon you have this Assembly of the Republic in that Committee of Inquiry — we all have an opportunity to do what is our obligation and I appeal here, on behalf of our mission, on behalf of the discovery of the truth, on behalf of the parliamentary dignity, on behalf of the legitimacy that comes from the vote of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u69	Just hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u70	Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, you are offending the regular functioning of the work of this Commission. Don't you want the discovery of the truth to be made why? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u71	Don't be silly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u72	Why do you need the General Deposit Box of EUR 5000 million? What is the dimension of Dr. Mário Centeno's lie? What is Mr. Prime Minister's involvement?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u73	There's no pachora! As much as you explain, you don't want to understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u74	Why don't you guys want to help discover the truth? Why don't you want answers to these questions? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] We all have the courage to carry out our mandate. They do not kill the noblest exercise on us, of scrutiny by the government and the administration. If that is not the case, and I shall finish, Mr President. For example, take a serious awareness of the role they have played in supporting the Government of the Country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u75	They're really disoriented! What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u76	Opaqueity and lack of transparency must even end. The country is counting on us! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u77	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u78	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, the entries are made during the speech of the speaker and not after that. I hope that, after this notice, this rule will be fulfilled by everyone. Four Members are registered to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, how do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u79	First of all, I am responding to two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, then the other two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u80	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Hugo Soares, if the PSD and the CDS had made a private bank what they have done to the General Deposit Box, these parties would have already led the bank to bankruptcy. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u82	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u83	The Box must not fail because it is a public bank, but you must be held responsible for the damage they are causing to the Box, the Country and the Portuguese, in the name of the Chicana and the low policy they have made. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] Ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of what. On behalf of what do PSD and CDS attack the Box to prevent its recapitalization?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u84	In the name of the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u85	On behalf of what do PSD and CDS create conditions for favouring private banks in the financial market dispute with the General Deposit Box?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u87	On behalf of what does PSD and CDS do all this? In the name of the return to power! The only thing that concerns you is to return to power, or to destroy the public bank to destroy the political solution that has removed you from power! [[PCP applause.]] The PSD and the CDS do not look at the means nor look at the consequences to achieve their goals, nor do they have to harm the Portuguese and the country in the way they are doing in relation to the General Deposit Box! And in this leaflet of « everything’, the last episode is now the one in which they want to turn the Assembly of the Republic into an instrument of your anti-democratic practices with which they have ruled the country for four years. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] For four years, they have used the Assembly of the Republic in a battle against other sovereign bodies, and now they think they can continue to do the same! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You want to give the Committee of Inquiry powers that it does not have. And they want to attribute these powers to them to violate the Constitution, to violate the law, to disregard the fundamental rights of citizens, to disrespect judicial bodies — courts, public prosecutors — and finally, the judicial system for what? To continue to aim at this goal to destroy the General Deposit Box, with the hope of destroying the political solution that has removed you from power! [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the PSD and the CDS do not want to know the fundamental principles of our state of democratic law, if today, as in the past, they still want to impose a practice of violation of the Constitution, this may be a claim that they continue to feed but, on the part of the CFP, will have no strict space to use the Assembly of the Republic for these purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u88	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u89	Therefore, in relation to the request presented in the Committee of Inquiry, we will fight the PSD and the CDS-PP not in the name of the request or of the immediate objectives they point out but in defence of democracy, respect for the Constitution, respect for the separation of powers and respect for the dignity that the Assembly of the Republic has to have within the framework of the Portuguese political system, denying them the conditions they want to return to power and infernify life to the Portuguese. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u90	To request clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u91	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, spoke recently of shame. Shame is to use low policy to destroy the General Deposit Box! [[Congratulations from the PS and PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] Shame, honourable Member, is to change political position on the TSU (unique social rate) by mere political tactics, adulterating your party heritage! [[All right!]] Shame is to do as the CDS did, which defended the cutting of wages and pensions in the previous government, because it complained of political bullying of the PSD. This is the justification that you have given, and that is why you must be ashamed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] PSD and CDS are not interested in the Committee of Inquiry. The Committee of Inquiry is running badly to the right. [[PSD laughter.]] What has been proved in the Commission of Inquiry is that the previous government knew about the problems affecting Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u92	There is information from the General Finance Inspectorate, which was sent to the former Minister of Finance, which points out that on 30 June 2014 the Box's inequalities were EUR 4600 million. And you put the problem in the drawer, as they did with BANIF. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it has also been proven that part of the Box problems have one responsible: the previous Government, PSD / CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You now wish to exorbate the powers of the Committee of Inquiry. But this time... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u93	Mr President, I ask you to take a break so that I may have the opportunity to appeal to the honourable Members. Members who create conditions for even if they can hear the parts. You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that PSD and CDS intend to exorbate the powers of the Committee of Inquiry. But they intend to do so by clearly violating the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in particular Article 34 thereof. o, paragraph 4. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are well aware that PSD and CDS do not look at the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic as a much greater. In fact, they did not present a State budget which was not dropped by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u95	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u96	All the State budgets that presented were in violation of the Constitution's rules. But this time, the right is making an irresponsible and ill attack against the government, being the biggest goal of the PSD and the CDS to destroy the General Deposit Box because they want to privatize it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall finish, Mr President, by saying: listen carefully...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u97	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u98	Listen well: they won't count on PS to destroy the General Deposit Box! You will not count on PS to privatize the General Deposit Box! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u99	To reply, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u100	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr. João Oliveira and Mr. João Paulo Correia asked me the questions they asked, but I believe that the despair was so obvious that they did not even ask the speaker a question. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, I will allow myself to comment on what your statements have been, very quietly, in order to contrast well with the despair of those who have already spoken about new governments that can come there. Mr. João Oliveira, on his considerations on the issues he has raised on anti-democratic positions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u101	It's reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u102	...I think you already know, so I won't remember that it's not the Social Democratic Party, it's not this bench that supports a totalitarian state or government in the world, it's your party! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u103	You took three to zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u104	And Mr. João Oliveira well knows that what they are trying to do in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry is a boycott to democracy. You want to ban Members from asking questions. You want to ban Members from having access to documents. You reach the limit of covering the eyes, which actually happens in the public square. Today, we have heard that there are messages exchanged between Mr. Minister of Finance and Dr. António Domingues, where Dr. Mário Centeno tells Dr. António Domingues : « I already have the agreement, we can draw from the Statute of the Public Manager the issue of returns, you have the conditions required». And you don't say anything to this? Oh, my God! Don't you guys really want to know about this? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. João Oliveira is not going to make the mistake of saying that you have never asked any ministers to resign because this has happened these days and it has not been very well. So, Mr. João Oliveira, where is the Portuguese Communist Party of other times? [[He's dead!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u105	Is that the complicity I was talking about? But what's the change? Mr. João Paulo Correia, now trying to comment on his non-questions, I address the following question: then, accuses us of wanting to destroy the General Deposit Box and you have not yet put 1 € in the General Deposit Box? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] The honourable Member accuses this bench, which recapitalised the General Deposit Box in 2012 and which did not comply with anything? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputies, who supports a government that in one year had three administrations of the General Deposit Box, do you think that we want to destroy the General Deposit Box, the public bank? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Are you talking shame on your face? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputies, the political struggle is not worth everything. [[Yeah, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u106	And because it is not worth everything, it is worth the fact that you today, at 18 hours, had the parliamentary dignity to allow what is essential: we will discover the whole truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u107	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u108	I will finish, Mr. President. Let's figure out why the General Deposit Box needs EUR 5000 million. [[PCP protests.]] You guys are very nervous. I'll be done. Let's see why Dr. Mário Centeno lied to the country. Let's see if Mr. Prime Minister also knew about the deal or not. Make that effort there! Or do you already know the truth and don't you mean the country? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u109	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u110	Mr President, I welcome Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares and congratulate him on the subject which brings the debate, because it allows him to give clarification to the country. The honourable Member could even begin by clarifying Dr. Manuela Ferreira Leite, who said the following: « I still did not understand whether they wanted to blow up the box at once or not interested in cooperating in its recovery ». Sir, which of the two hypotheses is true? Or are they both at the same time? Do you want to get out of the box or don't you want your capitalization? Hello! Say here! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[That's a question!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u111	Do you really want to bury the Box or simply avoid its capitalization? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Or they want to finally make use of that proposal they had in your election program in 2011 that said that after the Memorandum of the Troika was completed, then they would scatter the capital of the Box in Bolsa, which is the same thing to say privatize it. Is that what you want to do now? Is that why you are so committed to creating difficulties in capitalization? Answer me! Is it to kill the Box or to prevent its recovery? But I must tell you, Mr, and perhaps you will remember it, because in the creative frenzy in which you are involved, in your stories and in your leaflets, if you forget something, that the Left Block does not accept any lack of transparency in the Box. [[PSD protests.]] In fact, there is no exemption regime for administrators because of the Left Block vote, because of the Left Block proposals. I don't know if you remember that situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u112	And maybe there's still an exception in remuneration. And you know why, Your Honor? Because the PSD voted against the Left Block proposal to lower the salaries to the administrators of the General Deposit Box. Would you like to clarify the country about this, Mr. Member? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u113	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u114	I will finish, Mr. President. Now, and since I am asking questions — and you want to answer questions, you have this huge will — I will ask you the following: why is the PSD constantly running away to the object of the Committee of Inquiry? Why do you not want to discuss the subject matter of the Committee of Inquiry?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u115	You guys don't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u116	Why do you not want to draw conclusions? Are you so afraid of what your government has done or has not done in the Box and about the insufficient capitalisation of 2012, not to produce conclusions in the Committee of Inquiry? Oh, my God! Answer me, Mr. Deputy! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u117	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u118	Mr President, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, the tone with which questions have been put by the PCP, PS and BE benches is eloquent about the position of these parties in this debate, is absolutely enlightening. Therefore, it is even curious to hear of despair on the part of those who shout and demonstrate all the hatred that it causes to have to be here in Parliament to provide clarification. It is that we, for the sake of the rigour that this left wants to impose on Parliament, should refrain from asking questions, because it is in the national interest that the opposition does not question the government because the government is ruling for the good of the nation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The honourable Member has made the mistake, in the eyes of the left, of disregarding this principle. But I'm going to tell you you did very well. It did very well because it allows to discuss what is actually in issue. What is at stake here are the imbalances in a democratic system that has been built over 40 years, with the contribution of many and with the respect of all. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u119	So, right now, what happens is that some contribute to destroying this building, but we don't all surrender. And there will always be those who will raise their voice in defense of the common heritage and against the exclusive initiative of some. What is at stake here is what has been, for example, a reform of the legal system of parliamentary investigations, which has been done with a great deal of work by many parliamentarians from various banks and has not been imposed by a majority. A few years ago, when the legal regime of parliamentary investigations was revised, it was aimed at ensuring the rights of minorities, because it was found that a mature democracy like Portuguese could not be enough with the rights of the majority, it had to enshrine the rights of minorities. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And that is why the powers of inquiry committees have emerged! And that is why the power rights have emerged in these committees of inquiry! That is why it has been possible to have successive committees of inquiry over these years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u120	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u121	I will finish, Mr. President. It was therefore said that over the years there have been successive committees of inquiry: on the Socrates Government, in the case of PT / TVI ; on the submarines, relating to Paulo Portas ; on the swaps, relating to our colleague Maria Luís Albuquerque. They all answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u122	Liar! He was Paulo Nuncio!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u123	They all answered. With a difference: in our case, as we ruled... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u124	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker finish his speech, which, as I have already said, has exceeded the time allocated. I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u125	In conclusion, Mr President, and as I said, with a difference: in the time when we were ruling with an absolute majority, there has never been a need for a committee of authoritative inquiry in this Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u126	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u127	...because we always approved those that were proposed by the opposition. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u128	It's just lies!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u129	So the question that I am asking is this: more than all the political issue, is this or is not an attack on minority rights and on the parliamentary investigation regime, approved by a vast majority in this Parliament? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u130	To reply, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u131	Mr President, I begin by thanking you for the questions that have been put to me. Starting by responding to Mr. Moisés Ferreira, I do not understand his distress with the findings of the Committee of Inquiry. The honourable Member was the protagonist of one of the most hilarious scenes I have ever attended in Parliament : at the middle of a meeting of the Committee of Inquiry, he left the room, gave a press conference to the social communication and presented the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry. Therefore, I do not know why you are concerned about the conclusions when you have made them before the Committee of Inquiry even halfway. [[PSD applause.]] But I would like to leave you alone, Mr President, telling you that, from the last governments, from the one you support and from the previous, the only one who capitalized the General Deposit Box, which put money there, was the Government of Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, not yours. [[PSD applause.]] You've talked a lot, but it's trusted conversation and you haven't done anything yet. [[And don't you answer our questions?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u132	Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, your question is paradigmatic of what is happening here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u133	When they ask you questions, don't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u134	The left wants to cover the eyes of those who are listening to us on the issue that is essential. The point that is essential is that the left does not want Parliament to function and does not want democracy to work. See only, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, the case of Dr. Armando Vara! Dr. Armando Vara asked the Committee of Inquiry to be heard. Dr. Armando Vara, who is even a militant of the Socialist Party, asked the Committee of Inquiry to be heard! And what did the Socialist Party do, but also the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party? They rejected Dr. Armando Vara's hearing request on the Investigation Board! And they did this also in relation to the others. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today you have the opportunity to return dignity to the institutions. You have already announced that you want to prevent me and the PSD Parliamentary Group from asking questions to Dr. Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u135	We've been asking him questions all morning today!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u136	But, Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to take this moment to ask Dr. Mário Centeno a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u137	He's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u138	The question is: is it true what SIC, for example, discloses today? It is true that Dr. Mário Centeno sent an SMS to Dr. António Domingues saying « I have the Prime Minister's OK, the delivery of income statements is outside; you are free to deliver, we will amend the Statute of the Public Manager », which you lied?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u139	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u140	You need to know if this is true! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I ask the Minister for Finance here if you have the courage — if you have the courage! — to reject these statements and to say that there have been no such exchanges of SMS and that the content that is now public is false.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u141	You want to suspend the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u142	So, Mr President, through you, through the mandate that has been given to us, there is the question to Dr. Mário Centeno : does he also have the top to deny the texts that came to the fire? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u143	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u144	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u145	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u146	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u147	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau if it could exceptionally give Mr Hugo Soares time to answer the questions asked to him and to which he did not answer. [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u148	Mr President, I believe that you know the answer in advance, and we will therefore give normal continuity to our work. You have the floor, for a political statement, Mr. João Galamba, of the PS. I'm asking the ladies. Members who are in mobility in the Chamber, please create conditions for the environment to be calmer. Please, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: About a year ago, in this House, in the closing speech of the debate, in general, of the State Budget for 2016, the leader of the opposition said that the main difference between those who voted in favour and those who voted against the government proposal was not of a programmatic nature, that most important was the relevance that each and every other field gave to reality and facts. He also said that the State Budget for 2016 was a provisional budget, a mere repository of intentions, an adrabice, an offense to reality, logic and mathematics. The alleged cruel reality of the facts was that there was no alternative to the previous budgetary policy, because austerity—he said — « is not left or right ». The budgetary policy of the Government of the Socialist Party would therefore be incompatible with the budgetary targets and the demands of the implacable European Commission. As the opposition leader said, "if we could all, without money, return wages, pensions and taxes and, in the end, the bills would beat all right, that would be fantastic. You understand the wonder and accept the unbelief. If the previous budgetary policy, which did not return wages, pensions, or taxes, did not achieve a single account and a single goal and yet it was considered a huge fact, but even a sudden success, the proposal of the Socialist Party's Government was, at least, bold, not to say hallucinated. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we know that not only did the deficit accounts beat the deficit — the Minister of Finance confirmed – today, in hearing in this Parliament — it will not exceed 2, 1 % of GDP (gross domestic product ), below 2, 2 % of the budgeted one year ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's not a miracle, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is serious work and hard work, the opposite of what has been done in the recent past by another government and by another majority. I will not say that the results of the deficit are fantastic, as Coelho said would be if the accounts were right—as they hit—but it is a fact that they are much better than what was planned and judged possible by all the institutions, national and international. The results on the budget front exceeded all expectations, even the most optimistic. We know, because it is also a fact, that it is by far the lowest deficit in Portuguese democracy, even below the budgeted goal, already demanding. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As confirmed by the European Commission's winter forecasts, which have been released for several days, we know that the deficits planned for 2016, 2017 and 2018 allow Portugal to leave the Excessive deficit procedure ( EDP ). We know, therefore, that, not being the news that the opposition expected, these are excellent news for the country and for all Portuguese. The country is better and the Portuguese, including the Portuguese opposition to this government and this majority, are also. And we know, above all, that the strategy followed, contrary to what was said throughout the year, not only was the calamity so often prophesied, as was its exact opposite. The results of 2016 are the confirmation that the credibility claimed by this government and the policies it has implemented are fully justified. We already knew that it was the strategy that the majority of Portuguese ambitioned and desired for their country; now we also know that the strategy is the correct one, it has results and that therefore there was and there is the same alternative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What 2016 tells us is that the strategy that has been followed should not only be maintained, as it should be further. In a team that wins and in a strategy that results does not move. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The strategy that results is a balanced strategy between budgetary commitments and an ambition by a Portugal that bases its competitiveness on the qualification and dignity of the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. The resulting team is the team that does not give up, not only because of the conviction of the strategy, but because of the conviction that Portugal and the Portuguese have everything they need to overcome difficulties and build a better future for all generations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2016 budget results were worth a responsible budgeting and a demanding and rigorous implementation, but they were also possible because economic activity and employment responded positively to the economic strategy that, as a result of the fiscal policy of the past, was implemented from 1 January 2016. We looked at the year 2016 and found that after a strong slowdown over 2015, the economy reversed the trend in the second quarter of 2016 and accelerated strongly in the third and fourth quarters. The economy ended the year growing close to 2 %, with two quarters continued to grow above the euro area average and the European Union, something that had not occurred since 2013. It is the best and fairest economic growth in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This growth, in addition to being in strong acceleration, is entirely sustainable, because it is based on growth in private consumption, based on increased employment and income of families, and it is not made at the expense of further unsustainable reductions in the savings rate, because the external balance has increased, because exports have grown and because Portuguese companies, despite the difficulties in some determining countries for the exporting sector, have shown that competitiveness has not only deteriorated, as it has even improved. Paraphrasing Paulo Portas, 2016 was the best year ever for Portuguese exports,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because the investment, after a strong fall in the third quarter of 2015 and a later stagnation, reversed the trend in the second half of 2016 and is recovering. According to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), together with the acceleration of private consumption, the recovery of investment was even the main responsibility for the acceleration of the economy at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u150	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u151	The confidence, which the opposition swears every day to have collapsed, has increased across the Portuguese economy: it has increased in consumers, being the highest in the last 17 years, and in the entrepreneurs, it has increased in trade, it has increased in industry, it has increased in services and it has increased in construction. As the opposition says, all these data show that the strategy is not correct, it is not working and needs to be quickly changed, but that is certainly not the strategy of the government and the majority that supports it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u152	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u153	Who needs an alternative plan, and urgently—not a plan b, not a plan c, but a plan z—is the opposition, which has migrated from reality and which is now alienated from the country, from the experience and aspirations of the Portuguese. Having failed all the prophecies about the deficit and the alleged collapse of the economy and confidence, it also failed in everything it said about the labour market. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year ago, they accused the government and the majority that supports it with irresponsibility and irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u154	Mr President, I have already asked you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u155	I will finish, Mr. President. They said that we were Pyromans, numbers torturers, that we would throw the country into an abyss, that the public accounts would go into disrepair, and the economy and trust would sink. And they even quoted Churchill as warning: «We must look at the facts, because they look at us. Do not keep on seeking. ” I recognize the relevance of the citation, but I return the suggestion to the opposition: Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the facts, those who swear to be impossible, and, as the European Commission did, have the humility to recognize that they have been wrong. It doesn't cost much. The facts and reality also thank the country, because it already has a government that has results, but does not appear to have an opposition to the circumstances. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u156	Mr João Galamba, the Bureau registered four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u157	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u158	You have the floor to make the first request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u159	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, I begin by complimenting you on your political statement. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u160	Is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u161	... instead of cutting wages, wages were returned; instead of raising taxes, taxes were reduced; instead of punishing the poorest, social support was increased, the Constitutional Court respected. The economy today shows the results of this investment in economic policy and a country that realizes that it is not impoverishing that it grows more and, on the contrary, it is having more dignity, more wages, more income than an economy can grow and be more sustainable in the future. He said that it was the return of income policy that led the economy to grow to immediately welcome a deficit of 2, 1 %, which is 0, 9 percentage points below what would be required by Brussels to meet the European budgetary targets. Therefore, what Mr has said is that there are EUR 1674 million that could have been used to hire staff for schools, which could have been used to invest in the SNS (National Health Service ), which could have been used to invest in public services, to increase social support, to increase wages, to increase careers in the public service, to have fallen from IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) and which were not used solely because the government wants to have the title to have the lowest deficit in democracy, although it is not required and to go beyond what Brussels demanded. That is why, Mr President, the question I would like to ask you is the following: according to your own logic that the economic results we now know have to do with the return of income, which is that it would not be these economic results if such 1674 million had been used to invest in the economy, rather than have been threatened with no positive results for the economy, to have a round number so that it can be shown to Brussels that it is the least deficit ever,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u163	... although then you miss the money you need every day to invest in public services? We know that much has been done, but that is still a long way to go. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u164	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. João Galamba, I have seen the PS celebrate, with a pump and circumstance, the economic results, perhaps also to try to shut up what is the strange relationship of Mr. Minister of Finance with the truth...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u166	Very strange!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u168	The honourable Member referred to the best economic results since... I no longer remember what year he was referring to.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u169	Since Socrates time!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u170	Mr Member, I am going to read you a sentence from INE two days ago — I suppose you will believe in INE : « In 2016,... » — 2016 was last year, right? — «... GDP increased by 1, 4 % by volume, - 0, 2 percentage points as verified in the previous year. » This result is the one you mentioned recently, of the rostrum, to be the best for how many years have I not known. It's a worse result than the previous year! And the honourable Member, moreover, is part of a group of wise men who have drawn up a macroeconomic scenario, remember-CL, it will also be that he is much worse than the one who predicted in this macroeconomic scenario. Mr President, the problem in this matter is that he frankly lacks in results what is left of him in cana! It is that when the honourable Member went on an election campaign he made a 2, 4 % growth forecast, after a year of government he has to present 1, 4 %, which is little more than half, and he has the "can" to go up that rostrum and say that these are the best results for many years, perhaps always. Mr. Deputies, frankly! [[CDS-PP applause.]] With regard to the deficit, he also said: 'It is the best deficit in democracy'. I still remember the time when this sentence was heard here in this Parliament by former Prime Minister José Socrates, answering, in fact, Mr Francisco Louçã, at the time when the Left Bloc did not just pretend it was opposition, but it was against itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u171	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u172	The end of this story and this deficit would lead to that, since they cannot avoid the same acts that can lead us to the same result, at least they were creative in propaganda. Mr President, avoid at least using the same phrase. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u173	To reply, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u174	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mrs Cecilia Meireles for the questions they have asked me. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the most important of this result is not to have been obtained at the expense of wages, pensions, returns of income and the policy contained in the State budget and the Government's programme; it was obtained by fully fulfilling the Government's programme and what was planned and therefore there were no plans b, or additional measures. I would say that, in view of these results, we will all have to congratulate ourselves on the objective achieved. If the goal had been reached by cutting additional wages or by reverting some of the options that were made at the beginning of the year, I would accompany Mrs Deputy, but that was not what happened and therefore I think that when Mrs Deputy looked carefully at the results, and although she defended a major deficit, she must recognize that with the measures implemented and the result achieved is, in fact, a goal that even the Left Block can celebrate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u175	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u176	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you know the media problems, don't you? If an economy does not grow in one semester and in the next half grows 10 %, it has increased on average 5 %. But it will not be right to say that the economy is stable, which is correct, looking at these data, that is to say that the economy has accelerated. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mr Deputy, today you have had a very detailed explanation of all the numbers, and I thought that, after the explanation you took, the smell was something that Mrs Deputy had, but after all you do not have. I wasn't, recently, saying there, from the rostrum, anything that contradicts INE numbers. In fact, what I did—as I had done this morning; and the Minister for Finance also did—was to give the honourable Member a reason. What we said was that the average growth rate in 2016 is 1, 4 % of GDP lower than 0, 2 % at the average GDP growth rate in 2015. But I'm going to give you something new: this doesn't tell us anything, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u177	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u178	Why? Because the average rate ignores the dynamics of economic activity during the years 2015 and 2016. And if the honourable Member has the seriousness she has demanded of me, and I always seek to have in the interventions I make—that Mrs Deputy, unfortunately, shows that she does not — would recognise that there is a very large difference between the year 2015, in which economic activity slowed down throughout the year, and the year 2016, in which economic activity accelerates throughout the year. Or does the honourable Member not have the honesty and seriousness of recognizing these two facts? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They're both true, Your Honor! And the difference between me and the honourable Member is that I recognize both, and the honourable Member insists on just recognizing the first one. Madam Member, against all the successive and increasingly hyperbolic woe prophecies of the leader of your party, and now, of the majority of your party's Members, at the end of 2016, this government and the majority that sustains you have to present to the Portuguese and the gentlemen, who have said that this is impossible, the result that you have always claimed to be unimaginable, impossible, arithmetically impossible, that they said to violate logic, mathematics, violate everything, that they said it was not possible! But it was, Mrs. Member! [[CDS-PP protests.]] The economy is ending the year with the greatest growth in recent years — it is a fact — and I challenge Mrs Cecilia Meireles to correct me. It is indeed the lowest deficit in Portuguese democracy, with or without extraordinary measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u179	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u180	I challenge the honourable Member to challenge what I am saying, which is also against what the honourable Member and her party said, the greatest job growth in recent years. Madam Member, these are the results of this government. If you don't like it, your problem, but at least have the humility of those who recognize it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u181	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Galamba, with the disclosure of the data for the fourth quarter of the year, it is already clear that after the second half of 2015 we declare the slowdown of our economy, which lasted for the first quarter of 2016. in the second quarter of this year, our economy began the recovery of economic activity, which extended from that time. This development of our economy cannot be dissociated from the approval of the State Budget for 2016 during the first quarter of the year, which entered into force at the beginning of the second quarter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u183	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u184	It was also when rights and income were reintroduced to workers, pensioners and their families. The State budget for 2016 interrupted a long period of cuts in wages and pensions for workers and pensioners, restored rights and income to employees of the Public Administration, introduced the safeguard clause of the IMI, reduced VAT in the restoration, updated the national minimum wage, started the elimination of the overtax of the IRS, carried out the defrosting of pensions, increased social pensions, family allowance, social income of inclusion, the solidarity supplement for the elderly and the assistance allowance for third persons. These were measures that had the concrete and decisive contribution of the CFP and had no support from the PSD and the CDS. In addition, we found that this GDP growth of 1, 4 % in 2016 accounted for an annual employment growth of 1, 2 %, which meant net growth of 56 500 jobs in 2016 and an estimated reduction in the number of unemployed by 73 500. These data, poorly the provisional and conjuncural character, are already a reflection of the changes and solutions assumed so far and the improvement that has been recorded in private consumption also reflects some replacement of the purchasing power of workers, through wage replacement that was made to public employees in 2016. Now, we are aware that being a good first sign of the acceleration of growth in this period, the country needs not only to continue to grow, but more than that, to grow at a much higher rate and in a well sustained way. To that end, the country has, once and for all, to free itself from the current external constraints which continue to be imposed on us and which consume, in the control of public deficit and public debt, billions of euros of financial resources, which could and should be applied on public investment, capable of creating economic conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u185	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u186	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, Mr. João Galamba, if the change we have achieved has brought positive results, then the change we need to achieve must go much further. That is why the question: does he not consider that, rather than solving these matters and concerns, we must even take an alternative policy of defending national interests, workers, productive sectors, fishermen, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in a decisive and effective way? That's the point we left. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u187	Mr António Leitão Amaro, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Galamba, Mr Galamba, finished his speech recently saying « it takes humility to recognize that they have been wrong ». Ó Mr. João Galamba, author of the second rescue, prophet of the cautious program, who predicted the need for a cautious program, who said that Portugal was in a recessive spiral! Mr João Galamba, lawyer of the very sustainable governance of José Socrates, « humbleness to recognize that they have been wrong »? Oh, my God! I want to see that exercise! But let's talk about the present. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u189	Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u190	Mr Deputy, there is humility to recognize the macroeconomic scenario that led to the elections — Socialist Party, 2015 : « We can grow 2, 6 % per year ». What failed to grow 2, 6 % a year? What happened so that one year ago your government was here saying that we were going to grow 1, 8%? What happened to you a year ago when you said that the investment was going to go up and down? That exports would grow more and, after all, have grown less? Mr. João Galamba, so that there is no doubt, the PSD wants and believes that there is economic growth and budgetary consolidation. If she exists, that's positive! But this does not prevent us from criticizing and arguing about two things: firstly, that growth is little, that it is less than the previous year and, secondly, that you make the wrong way. Explain to me, Mr. João Galamba, why in 2016 investment grows less, the economy grows less — it grew 1, 4 % when it had grown 1, 6 % — why exports grow less in 2016 than it did in 2015 or less than in 2014. What's wrong? What failed was that you, with such a different revenue, chose the wrong paths, let exports and investment slow down.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u191	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u192	But what was also lacking in order for this 2016 budget to have to inject, as plan b, more than EUR 500 million into tax forgiveness and a brutal cut of EUR 1000 million into public investment? Yes, these are plans b that are worth almost 1% of GDP, Mr. João Galamba! Finally, Mr President, and I will conclude by asking what went wrong so that public debt, contrary to what they said — gross public debt, which is the one that pays interest, is increasing, increased after it has fallen and the interest that the Portuguese pay is increasingly expensive and in values that we have not seen for many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u193	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u194	What went wrong for you gentlemen to fail in your predictions and do worse than in the previous year? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u195	To reply, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u196	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Bruno Dias and Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro. Mr Bruno Dias, this result is from all of us: it is from the Government of the Socialist Party, it is from the bench of the Socialist Party, it is from the PCP, it is from the bench of the Green Party, and it is from the bench of the Left Block. It is from all the parties who believed that it was possible to make different, that the Portuguese were entitled to more than to impoverishment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the result of those who believed and who fought for another solution, who over the years believed that this was the best way. This course, of course, is not finished, Mr President, it is a path that must be deepened, and that is why we believe that this legislation must be completed, because we have a Programme to execute and the Portuguese still have a long way ahead of their recovery of income and the recovery of dignity that the previous government has stolen from them. Mr. António Leitão Amaro, does not take credit for Dr. Paulo Portas, who has been the great arauto of the precautionary program. Then I send you the video in which Dr. Paulo Portas, together with Dr. Maria Luís Albuquerque and Dr. Carlos Moedas, explains in detail to the Members the merits of the precautionary program. I am sending you, sir, don't worry. As for the recessive spiral, I am always available to debate the positions I take, but I reaffirm what I said: the Portuguese economy was on a recessive spiral in 2012 and this recessive spiral was only blocked because the Constitutional Court obliged the Members. Members returning to the additional austerity they wanted to make, more than EUR 3000 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You may not agree with this position, but this is the same position that I have and I have been repeating for more than two years. And you do not pretend that I have never explained this matter. The honourable Member may disagree, but this is my explanation, and I will repeat it as often as you need, since it seems that you have not understood so far. The honourable Member asks what happened. You want me to tell you what happened? It is very easy: the alleged economic recovery that you said was under way was a fraud. Mr. Deputies, it was fraud! [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] Just look at the INE data: an economy that grows 1, 7 % in the first quarter and then slows down over all the following quarters is not an accelerated economy, it is a slowdown economy. And an economy and a Budget that starts in 2016 with the absence of the recovery that you claimed existed, was able to start from a GDP growth of 0, 9 %, increase to 1, 6 % and then accelerate again to 1, 9 %, Member of Parliament! It seems to me — and especially if you look at the graphic example of these numbers I have just mentioned — that will be very clear what is a slowdown, what is an acceleration, what was the one that existed in 2015 and what was the one that existed in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr, we promised to grow 1, 8 % in 2016 and, curiously, we ended the year growing 1, 9 % and to accelerate. Therefore, Mr President, do not worry that economic growth, employment growth and investment growth are there. I understand that you don't like it, but I have worse news for you: it's going to improve even more. Therefore, we will repeat this discussion here and the honourable Member will try to give new reels and will invent new breaches. But, Mr President, reality is stronger than your wishes and it is there every day to show you something very simple: you spent the whole year saying that what actually happened could not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u197	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u198	Therefore, Mr. Deputy, on credibility and failed forecasts, is there, splendidly, the year 2016 in view of everyone, and even Mr. Deputy, for whoever you want to see. Mr President, at the moment he has no credibility in any of the matters on which he has agreed this year, and he should indeed have some humility and acknowledge the results of this Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u199	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this political statement, I would like to mention something which, from our point of view, is essential and still lacks compliance. The fact is that since 2009 our country has not had a clear, concrete public intervention in the provision of the right to housing. The truth is that since 2009 there has been a significant disinvestment in respect of the pursuit of the constitutional objective of the right to housing and the social consequences are serious, I would say, very serious. We are aware that, since 1993, when the Special Plan of Realisation ( PER) was approved and that it actually led thousands of families to leave the barracks and degraded houses in which they were located and could be re-hosted with dignity, since 1993, almost 24 years ago, that there is no more public action, the action of the State, in order to provide the right to housing. And what is real is that, despite this Special Plan of Realisation having almost a quarter of a century in force, there are still many municipalities, many municipalities, in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, in which this Plan has not yet been closed, nor implemented. We have municipalities where hundreds of family aggregates have not yet been relocated within the framework of the PER, although they have been registered since the 1993 process. In some cases these situations are serious, such as in Amadora, where there are more than 1 thousand family aggregates, but also in Almada, Loures, Maia and in several municipalities of these large urban concentrations in our country continue to exist family aggregates waiting to be relocated. Mrs. Members, this happens only because there has been a great disinvestment in public housing, especially since 2009, which is responsible for the former government, but which has not yet been recovered in this legislature. It is essential that this should be overcome because, in reality, the waiting time for the most deprived families to be able to access social housing continues to increase. It is also true that there are still families, even if they are not from the poorest strata of our society, who are increasingly having difficulties in access to housing, in access to a decent housing, to a housing close to the place where they develop their work, which does not require pendulum movements, where they spend time and money fundamental to their family. But this is the situation that continues to exist in our country and that has a reality behind it: disinvestment in the offer of public housing. The de-investment in a sector, in a market, which, as we know, is marked by inequalities, which have been aggravated by the legislation adopted in the previous government on the urban lease regime, which has placed all the powers on one side and has cast to insecurity the tenants, especially the elderly and those with lower incomes, but also the younger ones have been shot for suburbanization, precariousness and insecurity. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this situation we are living in must have a solution, because what exists at the moment is a complete hole, a very deep hole, in the area of the offer of social housing in our country. A hole that needs to be solved must be overcome, if we fail to comply with Article 65. that of our Constitution, which is related to the fundamental right to housing. in this sense, we would like to welcome the work that has been carried out and completed today in the Working Group — Housing, Urban Rehabilitation and Cities Policy, of the Assembly of the Republic, with a text, common to all parliamentary groups, which recommends to the Government that once and for all overcome this situation that is created in our country, which promotes public investment, which increases the supply of public housing, which regulates the housing market, which solves the most pressing problems of the population sectors with lower incomes, that work in cooperation with municipalities so that there are no more waste and more demolitions without alternative housing for these residents, and many of them continue to live in degraded neighborhoods and are not identified in the 1993 PER, but have, indeed, housing deficiencies that need to be addressed. from this point of view, the Left Block considers that the progress that has been made today with the approval of this common text in the parliamentary committee must be followed by the Government, and this recommendation is being made, i.e. that the Government take action to ensure that the PER is revived, that there is a national survey of housing deficiencies and that there is an investment in increasing public housing supply for the less-income population sectors, but also for those who are increasingly experiencing difficulties in access to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u201	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u202	I conclude now, Mr President. Thus, in this perspective, we believe that the next State budget should have already included funds for what has not been included in this budget, namely the PROHABITA (Individual Access Financing Programme), which, despite having increased funding, is directed at two very concrete issues and does not, in fact, address the problem at national level, which is the problem of housing shortage. We hope that the common text, which has now been approved by all parliamentary groups, will be a clear indication...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u203	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u204	... so that the Government can deal with this issue and do not stop fighting for Article 65. that of our Constitution is realized. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u205	Mr President, you have three entries for requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u206	Together, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u207	That being the case, Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u208	Mr President, I should like to begin by welcoming Mr Soares' speech, but also, above all, to welcome all the benches, because in fact it was possible here in the House — and we know that there are moments of great clairvoyance, great tension and we have our differences, they are never hidden — all Members understand that above and in this particular case, which has to do with housing shortages, is the national interest, and we have identified it immediately: at this time and for many years, there is a gap in our country in relation to housing response to families who do not have a home. This gap has been identified by all, it will be necessary to make a national programme, it will need to make a national survey of all shortcomings, that is what we propose in the common text which was approved in committee and which will come to plenary next Friday for the final vote. Mr Soares, as you know, we indeed have a lot of housing shortage for poor families, but unfortunately we have 700 000 empty houses in Portugal. Mr Soares does not think that, apart from this national programme, we need to work so that the lease market can work and that these empty houses, which are not on the market, can be placed on the market, in order to have more answers for families, not only for the poorest of the poorest but also for those who are even willing to pay something, but not the speculative price of the income they practice? This issue is essential and we must see the whole problem. We have homeless families in Portugal, we're going to make the survey to know how many are, we've got a lot of poor families, but we have 700,000 empty houses. We need to get to work and this is work for everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u209	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u210	Mr President, Mr Pedro Soares, I welcome him on the subject of the political declaration which he brought today to the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, the issues relating to the right to housing, in our view, are central, are still to be resolved. In fact, housing shortages are enormous and, precisely so, yesterday, the CFP has carried out a public initiative with its Secretary-General on "Constitutional Right to Housing—The Role of the State", where these matters have been deepened, with regard to the right to housing, but it has been further in the range of determinants that also have to be examined when we talk about housing, such as economic, financial, urban, fiscal and also transport policy. With regard to the joint text, which was adopted today in the respective committee, we also value the result achieved and the fact that the Assembly of the Republic has reached a joint text, where the survey and identification of housing deficiencies, the creation of a programme that responds to them, the need for the inclusion of a financial package in order to give realisation to this same programme, are also aspects that we, PCP, also had in the draft resolution that we brought to the Assembly of the Republic. We believe, however, that the resolution could, and should, have gone further in the effective guarantee that any demolition or eviction should only occur when there is indeed a definitive solution, in order to ensure the right to housing to the families in this situation. We will, of course, continue to intervene in the sense that there is no one left without a home and to ensure that everyone is entitled to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u211	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u212	I will finish, Mr. President. The specific question I want to leave is this: how is this joint text expected to be adopted on Friday, whether or not it is necessary for the Government to start working within the framework of its powers to implement this resolution, which will, as expected, be adopted unanimously? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u213	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block, for bringing these housing issues here, and these are issues that concern the PSD, and I would also like to congratulate him on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, for today we have reached a consensus on the subject which is so strategic and important for our country. I would like to say that we are a constructive opposition, so we have, of course, presented a draft resolution, and that of the various draft resolutions presented came out, in committee, this joint text where these concerns are reflected. I want to say that our draft resolution was comprehensive, it was not about a single situation. All this began by a project that spoke only in the 6th of May, but our draft resolution wanted to be comprehensive, wanted to advocate a national census of all situations of housing shortage in the country that aimed at a response, a new program, a new PER, if we so want, that would include all, and not only the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto, and above all, that it did not confine itself to degraded neighborhoods but to all the people who are, for reasons of economic insufficiency, in situations of housing shortage. I want to ask the Left Block if it has already been forgotten that it does have serious responsibilities in this government. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what I do not think is that one day the Left Block is on the side of the protest on the ground, alongside the residents, and on the other day it is here, in the Assembly of the Republic, to approve budgets as if there were nothing else. I ask you, Mr Soares, if you think this government has done everything and has demonstrated all its efforts to resolve this situation. It is that in the previous legislation we were under the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, but now these constraints no longer exist. So you are in government, you support this government, and what is required is that you influence the government in order to create a programme and a response to this situation, which is indeed a national problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u215	To reply, Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u216	Mr President, I begin by thanking Members Helena Roseta, Paula Santos and Sandra Pereira for the questions they asked me. In fact, we are very proud to be on the street next to the residents, from those who need it. We do not hide, on the contrary, we are proud because we think they are the part of society that needs more support. In the face of so much difficulty and dramatic situations, we would not be able to even conceive that the Left Block and the Assembly of the Republic, purely and simply, if they were to escape these situations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u217	And, therefore, when in our draft resolution—and Mrs Sandra Pereira put the question referring to the initiative of the Left Block—we speak of the 6th of May in Amadora, because it is only the most dramatic expression of the situation we live in at the housing level. They are residents who are in an absolutely precarious situation, who are not covered by any social housing support programme, which were not covered by PER, although they have lived in that neighborhood for several years, but which, despite this, are cleared, their dwellings are demolished and they are not given any alternative of social housing or social support. This is, in fact, a situation in which we cannot reconcile ourselves. We do not reconcile with this position, with this situation, we cannot in any way hide that, on the contrary, we have to present and we have to say with all clarity that this problem has to be solved. When we talk about the project that has been approved today in the committee unanimously, we are precisely contributing to telling the Government that it is essential that measures be taken to address this problem. As Mrs Helena Roseta has said, it is a nonsense to live in a country with so many housing shortages and where the private sector has 750 000 homes returned without being inhabited. As a slogan says that we use a lot, « So many houses without people and so many people without homes». It is, in fact, a huge misunderstanding. Why does this happen? Because the housing market is one of the most unequal markets that causes more injustice in the various types of market in our country. It is therefore necessary to intervene and regulate the market. And public intervention, in the sense of providing public housing, is one of the ways to regulate the housing market, and that is fundamental. It is essential to dynamize the housing lease market so that there is not so much imbalance between tenants and gentlemen, which is what happens today with the review by the previous government concerning the Urban Rent Scheme (RAU). But it is also necessary to provide housing for the social sectors, which cannot even access this commercial housing market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u218	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u219	I will now finish, Mr President. There is a vast area of State intervention in collaboration with the authorities and autonomous regions in order to address this problem of housing shortage in our country. And it is necessary, as has been said here, and well, by Mrs Paula Santos, to begin to contribute from now on so that there is no more waste and more demolition without the people, victims of these evictions and such demolitions, having a housing alternative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u220	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u221	It is important to establish common sense and social dignity that this problem can be tackled and that what has happened in particular in the 6th of May will not happen again. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u222	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The latest events in the Committee of Inquiry on the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box are serious and deserve to be brought to this House. To make it clear from the outset, the fact that these events are serious and deserve to be brought here has absolutely nothing to do with what the stability of the General Deposit Box should be, with what should be the recognition of the role of the General Deposit Box in the Portuguese financial system and, from the point of view of the CDS, today and always, with what should be its public nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u225	The CDS, since the beginning of this process, has never promoted any diligence, never made any statement that it is against what is the financial and commercial stability of the General Deposit Box. The Box is a very important asset, it is essential for the Portuguese State, it is essential for our economy and it has nothing to do with the contamination that the misexercising of the political responsibilities of some may provoke. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That's not our way. We did not contaminate the General Deposit Box when we ruled and did not contaminate when we were in opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u226	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u227	This does not prevent us from doing the political scrutiny of the responsibilities that each one has, and these are the responsibilities of governance and parliamentary representation. That's what's at stake here. That is why we talked about the parliamentary investigation regime. It is not worth reducing this to tricks or only to the General Deposit Box. What is at stake is not the General Deposit Box, nor the scams, what is at stake is whether Parliament respects respect and implements the laws which it has adopted itself. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u228	What is at stake is whether the democracy we have in Portugal is equal when they govern one another or when they rule another, whether the democracy we have in Portugal works in a way when some are in government and it works differently when others are in government. [[CDS-PP applause.]] What is at stake is whether the rights are authoritative depending on who invokes them, or whether the rights are authoritative according to their nature. What is at stake is whether the Socialist Party, the PCP and the Left Block, when they are in opposition, have rights and whether the PSD and the CDS, when they are also in the opposition, have the same rights or not. What is at stake here is whether the investigation committees, when the PS, the Left Block and the PCP are in opposition, serve to inquire and whether, when the PSD and the CDS are in opposition, there are only to pretend that they do these investigations. Indeed, if the PSD and CDS are inconvenient, the compressor roll of a majority immediately requires that rights cease to be authoritative and questions no longer possible. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]] The committee continues to exist, it is still called 'investigation', but everything becomes a farce, and democracy, when transformed into a farce, transforms what is democratic into totalitarian. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u229	We are not surprised that some of the parties in this Parliament have this temptation. We knew from time to time that one day they could be relatively close to power would do that. They've always supported who through this world has done it! They've always covered the ghost democracies! They have always supported totalitarian regimes! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Why is it that, being so close to power in Portugal, they would not have to do exactly the same thing they always proclaimed? What has really changed? Oh, my God! It is that, to a large extent, anyone who has always prevented this from happening in Portugal was the Socialist Party. This central role in Portuguese democracy must be recognised by the Socialist Party. If it was not possible for the PCP and the Left Block to do what they are saying in Portugal and what they approve in other countries in a lot it was because the Socialist Party did not leave. We record the change. With regard to parliamentary investigations, I would just like to remind you of the debate on its legal regime: « The Assembly of the Republic now has a law which gives the most guarantees and rights to minorities ». Did the PSD say that? Did the CDS say it? It was not, it was Ricardo Rodrigues, Member of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u230	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u231	« The system of parliamentary investigations to be voted upon by the Assembly of the Republic is an important step in revitalizing and giving authority to one of the fundamental instruments for the prestige and performance of this Parliament in the exercise of its powers ». by the moral authority of the declaration, it is easy to know who made it: Francisco Louçã, Block of Left. "We see ourselves in the final result and we consider that the law approved here today is a good law. It is also true that our country has very good laws and that then, in its application, the result is not exactly that. But this only the future will say...". for the fine irony, it is also not difficult to recognise here Mr António Filipe, who made these statements. Mr António Filipe, it is true that the future is saying very well what is the application of the parliamentary investigation regime and the perversion that the majority, which have this objective, can have in relation to the principle of respect for minority rights, which at the time was consecrated and Mr praised. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, it is very clear that it is possible to discuss what is at stake without attacking the General Deposit Box. It is possible to discuss what is at issue without talking about more or less private communications. It is possible to discuss what is at stake without talking about the objective content of the questions, because unfortunately what is at stake is the attempt of a majority to impose a "law of the roll" on a minority, who has rights but is currently being prevented from exercising it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u232	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u233	We want to ask, but most PS, PCP and Left Block says: « They can't! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We insist, we want to ask and, when the majority is distracted, we ask, but as soon as it wakes up it says: « You caught us distracted and asked, but we do not let the answer be known! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is a perversion with details of evil, with details of evil, with details of totalitarian intent that we in all excuse ourselves to accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u234	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u235	We will continue where we belong: here in Parliament, in the Committee of Inquiry, in each of the places to which representative democracy gives us access, not to restrict rights, but to exercise power rights, because the law enshrines them as such. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u236	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, the Bureau only registered Mr. Emídio Guerreiro to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u237	It is the so-called roll law!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u238	You have the floor, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u239	Mr President, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement and tell you that I fully review what you have said. I have followed up with the work of the Committee of Inquiry, such as Mr and others. Members of the different parties, and only the fact that there are no registrations for requests for clarification, I think it is already quite enlightening.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u241	There's no doubt about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u242	There is no doubt that this Parliament is living in different and difficult days. It seems that we are all subject to a "roller law" that some want to impose on everyone, and we cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u243	It is to compensate for your "incontinence"!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u244	in the past, when the majority were others, everyone had the opportunity to ask the questions that they understood very well, to hear who very well understood and without any obstacle on the part of the previous majority. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u245	He's having memory problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u246	Even during the absolute majority of the Socialist Party, it was possible, with respect to minorities, to ask the questions and call who really wanted to. Not now, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida. [[PS protests.]] The first question I put to you is this: does it seem normal that at the beginning of 2017 more than 40 years after we are in democracy, a significant part of the Portuguese Parliament, where the elected representatives of the Portuguese people are all, is subject to this « roll law », which reminds us of regimes that are not democratic? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u247	Mr President, I would like to ask you another question. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u248	Mr. Carlos César, in the Azores we are not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u249	It's in Madeira!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u250	in the Azores is that it is for the family, for the friends... it serves for everyone! It's different here, Mr. Carlos César! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, I would like to ask you a question, although we have already seen that the answer, unfortunately for everyone, is obvious, but I have to put it in the same way: with all this debate, with all that has been known since this debate began so far and with what has already been going on for social communication, would it not be good for some to reconsider what they said yesterday and this morning and today, at 6 p.m., we had a different behaviour in the name of safeguarding Portuguese democracy? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u251	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u252	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, no doubt what is at stake is exactly that, i.e. whether the parties that are represented today in these benches and who support the government consider or not that there are two types of democracy, that of them and that of others, that of the days when they are in power and that of the days when they are in opposition, that of the days when they speak, because they have something to say, and that of the days in which they are silent, because they know that each word can commit them even more. We are free to interpret these attitudes. We are free to draw our conclusions, but the greatest respect we can have for democracy is, in addition to those conclusions that we have drawn, in addition to this interpretation that we do, to honour, even more than the parliamentary debate, which is a duty of all, the representation that each one of us has been entrusted with. We are not here by lot, we are not here by contest, we are not here because we are left, we are here because we have been elected,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u253	... we are here because we represent someone and, in the name of this election and this representation, we have the duty and we have the power, because the power derives from this duty and this representation, of, in the name of the Portuguese who do not accept this silence, of the Portuguese who do not accept this pretending, of the Portuguese who do not accept this lack of transparency, we will fight to the end for clarification. It's not against the Box, it's not against anyone, it's about the Portuguese who voted in us to do this. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u254	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of today's political statements...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u255	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u256	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u257	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u258	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u259	Mr President, recently the Left Block Parliamentary Group made an appeal to the Bureau in the same way as I intend to do, which is to ask Mr President to give time to the Left Block so that a member of the House might sign up to ask a question. That is exactly what Mr Pedro Filipe Soares did recently. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u260	Mr. Deputies will see my smile... I suggest we move on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u261	They're big hands, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u262	Mrs. Members, after concluding the political statements, we turn to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 151 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — They request that the Assembly of the Republic approve the holding of a referendum and promote public discussion on the pregnancy of substitution ( Afonso da Gama and Castro Espregueira et al.). For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the more than 4000 citizens who, through our petition today, have requested that the Assembly of the Republic approve the holding of a referendum and promote a public discussion on the pregnancy of replacement. Among the reasons put forward by the petitioners for the presentation of their proposal for a referendum, I would like to highlight the following: first, Mr. President of the Veteran Republic the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 27 / XIII, a diploma which, as we know, would lead to the approval of Law No. 25 / 2016, which regulates access to the pregnancy of replacement; second, that Decree did not accept the recommendations of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, in its 2012 and 2016 opinions ; third, the pregnancy of substitution ignores the affective and psychological ties established between the fetus and the pregnant woman; and finally, the legislative amendments concerned would constitute a very significant change in the regime of Assisted Medicinal Treatment. At the time when this petition was brought into Parliament, the legislative procedure concerning the already-mentioned Decree of the Assembly of the Republic of 27 / XIII was still under way. In this respect it is worth making it clear that the PSD Parliamentary Group at that time expressed reservations about the unweighted and reflected way in which the legislative process took place. In fact, there is no good parliamentary practice to discuss and vote diplomas two days after they have been presented or to approve, in general, in the specialty and in the overall final vote, on one day a diploma whose replacement text had been presented, see, on that same date. Moreover, the PSD considered, from the outset, that petition No 151 / XIII ( 1. (a) it could not and should not be ignored, which is why we proposed its assessment before the completion of the legislative process. And we have therefore requested, through a request, the postponement of the vote on the motions for amendments to the Decree under consideration. However, and as is public, the left-wing parliamentary parties rejected this proposal from the PSD and rushed to take a legislative decision that needed to be well thought out.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u264	They took 13 - 0 at the Constitutional Court! There wasn't a judge who gave you that reason!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are not mistaken: Law No 25 / 2016 was approved after the entry of the petition that respected it, and not on the contrary. The petition we discussed could never claim to repeal Law No. 25 / 2016, because of the mere fact that it is not yet approved, so little would the Assembly's decree give rise to it. It is therefore not true that, as some would like, the petition proposed a revoking referendum. In fact, the Organic Law of the Referendum Regime itself determines in its Article 4. o, as referred to in the final opinion, approved by 1. the Commission, on the petition in question, that : « The questions raised by legislative acts in the process of assessment but not yet definitively approved may be the subject of a referendum. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u266	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u267	in the same way, Professors Gomes Canotilho and Vital Moreira teach about article 115. that of the Constitution, which the referendum is always before the legislative decision, which is clearly configured by the proposal of the petition under consideration. As I have already said, this was not the will of the current parliamentary majority, which led to the adoption of the legislative process on the pregnancy of substitution. The fact is that the law is passed, it has been promulgated by Mr President of the Republic and is in force and, in our view, in constitutional terms, at this time, the question of the referendum is not raised. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u268	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor. Ms. Isabel Alves Moreira ( PS ). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners and by saying that what is required by the petitioners — a referendum and the promotion of a public discussion on the pregnancy of replacement — is an unconstitutional claim and, from our point of view, based on considerations which we reject. I'm starting with the recitals. A political veto does not remove any legislative legitimacy from Parliament. Not accepting all the recommendations of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences is a right of this House. That seems, contrary to what is suggested in the petition, requires nothing, only makes recommendations and falls to the sovereignty of this House the last word. [[Congrats from PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] The hypothetical links between the pregnant woman and the fetus were evaluated over the months of parliamentary work in the specialty, when drafting the law. Immorally, politically, it would be to prevent personal projects of happiness to women who, due to the absence of uterus or cancer, do not cease to be women. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u269	We do not align ourselves with the devaluation of representative democracy underlying this petition. Parliament is sovereign to legislate in all areas of its competence. Fundamental rights are counter-majority, so the allusion to a majority moral and social conception in Portugal refers us to the domain of the dictatorship of the majority, unacceptable in the rule of law which has long ceased to be paternalist. The debate on this issue has been going on for many years. The assessment of the various bills concerned originated in a legislative process since 2005. The debate of the various bills took place on November 26, 2015, and the hearings were extensive, covering all fields of knowledge relevant to the matter. on May 13, 2016 it was then adopted, cross-sectionally, the decree that regulates access to the replacement pregnancy. The decree was enacted on 29 June and gave rise to Law No. 25 / 2016, of 22 August. I now move on to the referendum. at this time, of course, we do not refer to fundamental rights, such as the right to maternity or the right to become a family. In any event, and this is the case at present, the Constitution excludes the so-called'revocative referendum'. It is concluded that the legislative process in question and being in force by Law No 25 / 2016 of 22 August cannot be proposed any referendum which affects it. But we insist on one point: we must resist the temptation, which assists certain people, to replace representative democracy, which has been costed, by semi-direct democracy in the field of fundamental rights. It does not count on the Socialist Party's parliamentary group for these drifts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u270	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the petitioners and the use they have made of their rights as democratic citizens, but, despite this greeting, I want to make it clear that the Left Block disagrees with the content of the petition and does not follow the proposal left here, namely the holding of a referendum on the pregnancy of replacement. The pregnancy of substitution and the bill, which even resulted from an initiative of the Block of Left, were widely discussed, not only in this legislature, because already in the previous legislature there was a process of specialty that lasted years, and not only in this House, since it also occurred outside the Assembly of the Republic, giving rise to much public discussion, and therefore the discussion was made. The Left Block is very proud to have raised the discussion, to have presented the bill, to have participated in the discussion and to have encouraged this same discussion. We always said that the pregnancy of substitution should be legalized in Portugal, because it corresponded to several objectives. There are, for example, many women in this country who, for reasons of illness, cannot generate a child, or cannot have a pregnancy, or can not take it to the end. Now, the State and society should not deny these women the right, which they have, to a motherhood and the right to the realization of life projects and family projects. by not allowing access to a replacement pregnant woman society and the state would be telling these women that they could not realize a dream, that is, they could not carry out a project, and this denial is cruel. And it was to end this denial, replacing it with solidarity, that the Left Block was beaten by the legalization of the replacement pregnancy. The amendments that we made during the discussion in the field of specialty, the amendments that we then made from the presidential veto reinforced aspects of the bill, namely that of deep respect for the dignity of the pregnant woman, the beneficiaries and the child to be born. Therefore, we consider that, from the whole discussion in the field of specialty, of the whole discussion in society, a stronger and more capable law resulted and that today society in Portugal replaced the cruelty of denial by solidarity, which allows several women to carry out life projects. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u272	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have stated in the various moments when we had the opportunity to express ourselves on the pregnancy of substitution, this is a sensitive, complex matter that requires weighting of all the physical and psychic implications that arise there, particularly in the light of the direct intervention of a third person. We are of the view that the proposed amendments, proposed as a presidential veto, did not resolve a set of concerns that we, nor did the recommendations of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, of which we highlight: the criterion of accessibility to pregnancy of substitution is not objective; the safeguarding of well-being, physical integrity and the rights of women who bear pregnancy are not properly protected and guarded during and after pregnancy; the absence of any prediction on situations of health complications during pregnancy, malformations or foetal diseases or/ and the possible interruption of pregnancy; the conditions for the revocation of consent and, therefore, of the contract and its consequences, especially during pregnancy or after the birth of the child; and effective supervision, ensuring that there is no economic relationship. The petition proposes, in particular, the holding of a referendum, on the proposal of the Assembly of the Republic, on the pregnancy of replacement. In fact, our Constitution enables referendums to be held on matters of national interest, which must be decided by the Assembly of the Republic through legislative act. However, the legislative process relating to the pregnancy of substitution is not to be decided so as to allow this matter to be referred to. This process is no longer at this stage of discussion. The Assembly of the Republic has already decided and the legislative process has been completed, with the law regulating the pregnancy of substitution entered into force. According to the legal framework, it is not possible to make a referendum on a question on which the Assembly of the Republic has already legislated and which is already in force, unless it introduces any legislative initiative to amend the current law, which may be the subject of a referendum if this claim is proposed in accordance with the constitutional and legislative framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u274	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u275	This is the reflection contained in the report on the petition, which was unanimously approved in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which, of course, we are accompanying. Therefore, we did not follow the legislation that regulates the pregnancy of substitution. However, the holding of a referendum on this or other matter of great importance must respect the legal framework in force and clearly the object of this petition has no legal framework. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u276	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to leave a special compliment to the petitioners and start by saying that the CDS is sensitive to the background arguments left by them. Moreover, in time we defend a public debate, wide and clear that the compressor roll of this majority did not let it go again — fast, very fast, not to give time to properly clarify anyone and approve everything even to a considerable part of the Portuguese awakening.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u278	Do you know how this has been voted on?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u279	Even after Mr. President of the Republic's alerts, the majority withdrew the path and even insisted against several recommendations of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u280	We voted against, it's a fact. You're forgetting that. Most were done with the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u281	We already know that the PCP has nothing to do with it. So what? Don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u282	We voted against and you are forgetting that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u283	We refuse the light and light form as the majority faces the question, reducing it — it goes away! — the autonomy of women and the right of women to have children, not thinking a second that is, in the other right, the right that is on the other side and that for us, for the CDS, it is most important, the best interest of the child. For this reason, we ask the Constitutional Court to monitor the constitutionality of the law which enshrines the procreation and assisted medicine and the pregnancy of substitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u285	Not because we are against assisted drug procreation, not because we are against the right to have children, not because we are against women and their autonomy. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] We are as much in favour as we can! The problem is that we are not — we will never be and will never be able to expect from us — those who simply ignore the rights of children,... [[All right!]] [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u286	... as the right to know their parents, who is denied them, completely denied them, not knowing, nor being able to know, in normal circumstances, who their parents are, on the contrary, for example, what happens to those adopted — moreover, to the framework of Community recommendations. The right of the child to be protected is another right which is completely ignored here, the right not to be treated as a product of a contract that everyone can wish or that everyone can ultimately reject. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u287	There are a number of unanswered questions that will remain unanswered because it is simply not possible to answer them. What happens if there is a breach of the contract? What happens in decisions on terms of pregnancy? What happens in the child's refusal to surrender? What happens in the refusal of acceptance of the child after birth? Nothing! We don't know! Pure and simply, nothing is said and it is not possible that it is. There are too many "if" questions, too many questions, too many absences of answer that directly clash with a higher value, which, for us, is the greatest of all, the best interest of the child.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u288	The child's interest is always desired!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u289	And, in doubt, we will defend-CL - it. It's not more than this, but that's all for us, and that's why...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u290	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u291	I am really finishing, thank you, Mr President. So I was saying, we will wait for the court's decision, which, of course, we will accept, but we will never cease to defend the best interests of children. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u292	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would also like to welcome the petitioners who have delivered this petition to the Assembly of the Republic and who, today, are raising the debate that is taking place at this very moment. I would like to clarify the Greens' position on what this petition provides, saying that we are not going to see ourselves in its objective, which is obviously not new to anyone. We also do not understand that this is the time to repeat the debate on the legislative process that has taken place. at the time, the position and arguments of The Greens were invoked and the legislative process came to an end. I would also like to say that we believe that our position was of great respect for women who, because of physical impossibility, cannot become pregnant but cannot be denied the right to maternity, and also, Mrs and Mrs. Members, whom the Greens have invoked, for countless times, because that is what guides us too, the best interests of the child. Now, the best interest of the child is cautioned when we notice that a child is born or is created in a family that wants it and that loves it. That, yes, is to ensure the best interests of the child and their rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one argument in the petition that we cannot accept. First, I would like to say that the Assembly of the Republic is sovereign to legislate on this matter, as on many others, and then that the fact that, for example, the Greens' manifesto does not, in the last elections, specifically, contemplate the word guarantee of the pregnancy of substitution does not mean that the position of the Greens is unknown. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, and, in this case, Mr. Petitioners, in particular, the issue was often discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, in several debates that took place about the production of assisted medicine and the position of The Greens in defense of the pregnancy of substitution was affirmed and reaffirmed here, in Parliament and outside it, many times. Therefore, we cannot invoke the lack of knowledge of the position of the different parliamentary groups and of their parties on this matter. in this sense and with the consistency that is known to The Greens on this matter, and many others, of course, conclude by saying that the Greens which do not actually appear in the objective of this petition. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u294	Mrs. Members, having concluded that this item on the agenda is concluded, we turn to the joint discussion of petition No 154 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Saving the Vizela River ( League of Friends of the Vizela Termas ) and draft resolutions 652 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent and integrated measures to decontaminate the Vizela River ( PCP ), 653 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in consultation with the competent authorities, undertake a set of actions aimed at depolating the Vizela River ( PSD ), 661 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an urgent investigation of pollution incidents in the Vizela River by identifying the causes and those responsible for the clearance of counter-ordinary and criminal responsibilities and by developing, in conjunction with the municipalities and entities involved, a plan to monitor, prevent, control and mitigate, ultimately, the depollution of the Vizela River and recovery of the entire surrounding area ( CDS-PP ), 662 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Depollution of the river Vizela with the involvement of the municipalities ( The Greens) and 663 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures for depollution of the river Vizela ( BE ). For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin the intervention of the PCP with a very special compliment to Mr. President of the Municipal Chamber of Vizela, to all the associations that have stimulated this petition, to the League of Friends of the Terms of Vizela, to the Association of Diving and Underwater Activities of Vizela, to the Tourist and Sports Club of Vizela, to the Association of Friends of the Environment of Cepanes / Farja de Fafe, and also, of course, to the more than 4000 citizens who have subscribed to this petition. For several years now, the population and associations, both from Vizela and Fafe, have been drawing attention to the problems of pollution, to the recurrent discharges into the Vizela River, caused by industry, agriculture and also to the lack of sanitation infrastructure. Since 2006 the CFP has brought these questions to the Assembly of the Republic, through questions and requests to successive governments, and it has been following the last questions that we sent to the Government that the Ministry of the Environment itself confirms that public entities have found in particular the APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) in the lower Vizela, and I quote, «the higher pressures of industry, ETAR (residual water treatment station) and population aggregates, having obtained a final classification of mediocre water quality». These are the situations that should indeed deserve our attention. We believe that it is necessary and urgent to defend the river, which defends the people, which defends the economic activities linked to the river, including tourism. in this sense, we propose three very concrete measures: urgent measures are taken to identify the sources of pollution of the river Vizela and...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u296	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u297	... applied corrective measures to pollutant entities, which are carried out environmental monitoring actions throughout the area surrounding the Vizela River and which are made the urgent timing of the measures necessary for the depollution and recovery of the entire Ave basin. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u298	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also begin by welcoming the petitioners, the authorates and, above all, the leaders of the four institutions already referred to by the Member of the Communist Party here. And I would like not only to welcome them but above all to congratulate them for their exemplary exercise of citizenship in this region, fighting clearly and unequivocally for what environmental interests, landscape interests and also for the quality of life of their fellow citizens. In addition, the PSD members elected by the Braga district had the opportunity to accompany these leaders on a visit to the ETAR in Sarzedo where it was possible, on the site, to understand the capabilities of the station, what is done and also what could possibly be done. The fact is that we are not satisfied with the answers that the government has been giving because something needs to be done. We therefore presented a draft resolution, which is also the result of the commitment made by the PSD Members elected by the Braga district to the representatives of these institutions and the Vizelens, in order to, as the other parties here also propose, strengthen surveillance, also strengthen the ability of the authorities to monitor and not only act before the offenders. But our draft resolution goes further than the others, because, in fact, we reinforce the question of the government having to assess with the ETAR what may be necessary to strengthen the technological components and to do better a work that is already excellent but which must be even more valued, and on the other hand, we should move forward once and for all for monitoring, which is not done but that it should be, with the effluents downloaded by the industrial units, so that, whenever there is anything coming out of the parameters, it is immediately detected, thus ending with something that is not only this ETAR and this river, in particular, but it is from so many others in the country outside. It is that, after the discharge made, you never know exactly where it comes from and therefore it is important, taking advantage of the technological capacity, increasingly, we will also monitor what the privates are going to download in the river Vizela. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u300	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, firstly, we welcome the petitioners present here, representing four Vizela institutions, the populations and also the autoarchs who wanted to be here today, moving on their own to follow this debate. Mr. President and Mr. Members, this river Vizela, which concerns the population of Vizela, crosses municipalities such as Fafe, Felgueiras, Guimarães and Santo Tirso, and for a few years is already referred to this part as a chronic environmental problem and a chronic case of pollution. Just have memory, family memory, even, or more than 40 or 50 years old, to remember a completely different Vizela river, as a laser space, a pleasant space with its river beach. So this has not always been so, and it is an issue that, obviously, can and should be resolved. The enormous potential that the river Vizela and this area — in particular, knowing well the surrounding area of the thermal baths itself — can have as a tourist area cannot be wasted. It is a huge tourist asset, and in this case we are also wasting the quality of life of the population. When we were in Vizela, when we met with many of these entities, on the visit which was mentioned here by Mr Emídio Guerreiro and that the CDS also accompanied, an issue that is worrying, which is a kind of "pump game" about who has the responsibility for this pollution. In some cases, we have heard that it is the intense industrial or agricultural activity, in other cases, we have heard references to the ETAR itself and therefore there is here a « push» to one side, a « push» to the other side, but it is clear that in this case too, « guilt cannot die single». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u302	That is why we demand an immediate investigation by the Ministry of the Environment to determine where these polluting discharges come from. Secondly, we demand that the government, involving the authorities, ensure supervision and prevention, because, without supervision and prevention, the law will obviously not be more than mere rhetoric, and this is not acceptable. I am glad that there is consensus among all, but we will also be required to check whether this consensus is met and put into practice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u303	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of The Greens, to greet all the subscribers of this petition, especially those who today accompany the parliamentary work, and also to welcome the various organizations that have promoted this petition: the League of Friends of the Terms of Watch ; the Association of Diving and Underwater Activities of Vizela ; the Tourist and Sports Club of Vizela and, moreover, the Association of Friends of the Environment of Cepães / Fareja-Fafe. As we know, the pollution of our rivers is a serious environmental problem which has unfortunately not merited due attention by successive governments. And, with regard to the Vale do Ave, there are several examples of inaction by the competent authorities, despite the constant complaints and warnings of the populations. The river Vizela, despite several interventions or attempts to depolitate over the years, continues with serious pollution problems. And this despite the people having been showing over time a legitimate concern about the cleaning of their river, a situation which, in fact, always deserved the attention and follow-up by The Greens, who, in the context of the discussion of the State budget, presented proposals for a strengthening of funds for the depollution of the Vizela River. But it was the awareness for the ecological value of the landscape and for the protection of the environment that certainly contributed to the population to denounce the frequent discharges to the river Vizela. It happens that, despite the constant warning initiatives that have been made to the responsible entities, the populations feel that they have not been heard and continue to see the Vizela river "painted" red and black. Now, tired of the inoperability of those responsible and the promises that have not been fulfilled, the people resolved, then, to promote this petition that we are discussing today and that aims to save the river Vizela. This petition is another effort on the part of the population, so that, finally, a work of depollution, surveillance and awareness-raising is initiated to protect a natural resource that is of all. In conclusion, I just want to say that the Greens not only accompany the concerns of the petitioners but also present a legislative initiative which, in our view, meets the objectives and purposes of the petitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u305	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners and all the people who are here and usually reside in the territories crossed the Vizela River and direct a very special greeting to all those who have engaged in the environmental defense of the Vizela River. I know that some have been threatened by this commitment, but I want you to know that we, here, are supportive of your struggle, are supportive of the commitment they have had in depolating the river Vizela. The river Vizela integrates the river basin of the Ave, where hundreds of millions of euros have been spent in recent years on their depollution. however, what we witnessed, and the river Vizela is a concrete example, is that the river continues to change color and smell bad and the typical forms of life of the river continue to be affected and disappear. The only new forms of life that start to emerge are the dangerous multi-resistant bacteria. This is an unacceptable situation that has to be faced and that has happened for many years, particularly in the last legislation. And so I'm surprised to hear some of you. Members who had government responsibilities, because it seems they never had any responsibility in monitoring and monitoring the Vizela River and in the situation in the Ave River basin. Someone must be responsible and responsible for this situation, for having invested public resources in the depollution of the river basin, and also in the river Vizela, which does not result because there is still no negligence, still looking to the side, not wanting to solve the fundamental problems, not detecting the outbreaks of pollution, not having control attitudes about these outbreaks and not punishing those who are responsible for this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u307	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u308	I will now finish, Mr President. I must say that no one can claim the right to improperly appropriate a common good, such as the river Vizela, polluting it, using it for its activities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u309	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u310	...to the detriment of the population, the environment and the economy of the whole region. The Left Block presents a draft resolution, precisely in order to deal with this problem and to resolve it definitively. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u311	Mr Luís Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, like my colleagues who spoke earlier, I would like to greet the petitioners here, but they are the main ones responsible for triggering this set of legislative initiatives which the parties have brought here today. A greeting to Mr. President of the Municipal Chamber of Vizela, present here, and to all the mayors of the municipality of Vizela. during this last year, Parliament discussed this petition, which focuses specifically on the Vizela problem. But we also discussed the phenomenon of pollution throughout the watershed of the Ave and in the river Ave, that the river Vizela is affluent. If there is a matter, as we have seen today, in this Parliament, where there is a very broad commitment and consensus from all parties, it is certainly the urgent need to save the Vizela River and the Ave River, to save this environmental heritage. Personally, I have accompanied the work and commitment of the citizens, today present, and of the local authorities — I have been in Vizela and Guimarães, where there is already an action plan — and I find that this commitment has indeed been absolutely decisive. There is also investment by governments, successive governments over the past 30 years, with results, certainly, but with insufficient results. And it is on behalf of this investment of the Portuguese taxpayers, of the work already done and of the aspirations of the citizens present here that we must continue to defend and rehabilitate these water resources. It is necessary to strengthen basic sanitation networks, to strengthen the capacity of waste water treatment stations, to review the parameters of the effluents that are launched in the rivers, to strengthen the counter-ordinary and punitive capacity of the State. The Socialist Party defends more control, defends more speed in the processes and, above all, defends less impunity for the predecessors. We must prevent it — it is true! — but it is also necessary to restore, it is necessary to rehabilitate. I shall conclude by saying that one of the greatest challenges is the rehabilitation of river beaches, the return of the river to its populations. The Socialist Party is committed, with the autarchs, with the citizens, to pursue this plan, so that the salvation of the Vizela River and the Ave River are not a chimera but a reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-15.u313	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, we are finishing our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. and its agenda will have five points. First of all, we will have a thematic debate required by the CFP on the precariousness of work in the Public Administration. Secondly, we will generally consider the proposals of lein. 45 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves measures for uniform application and practical enforcement of the right to free movement of workers by transposing Directive 2014 / 54 / EU, 54 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Facilitates recognition of professional qualifications and reduces constraints on the free movement of persons and transposes Directive 2013 / 55 / EU, and 55 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — transposes Directive 2014 / 67 / EU on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services. We shall then proceed to the joint assessment, also in general, of Bill No 52 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between women and men in the administrative and supervisory bodies of companies in the public business sector and listed companies in the stock market and draft law No 406 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Promotes gender equality in the composition of State administration bodies ( BE ). Fourthly, we will appreciate draft resolution No 409 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define a State Responsibility Strategy in Portuguese Sport Heritage Management ( PSD ). Finally, fifthly, we will proceed to the evaluation of draft resolution No 624 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reduction of judicial costs ( BE) together with generally the projects of lein.o 399 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the mission unit for the review of the judicial costs regime ( CFP ), 408 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure access to the law and courts by making the benefit of the exemption of more comprehensive judicial costs ( PAN) and 409 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure access to the law and courts by introducing amendments to the Rules of Procedure ( PAN) and draft resolutions 659 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment and revision of the Rules of Procedure ( PSD ), 660 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the study, evaluation and implementation of new measures that improve the conditions of access to law and justice ( PS ) and 666 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the system of access to law and courts and the Rules of Procedure ( CDS-PP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 47 minutes.]]
