ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries. I begin by wishing everyone a good year, with a lot of work, health and good disposition. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin today's work, whose first point is political statements, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 365 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 30 / 2015 of 22 April 2015, which establishes legislative measures aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of the fight against sport corruption ( CDS-PP ) and 366 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 68 / 2014 of 29 August which approved the legal regime applicable to swimmers throughout the national territory with regard to the supervision of activities in public-use pools ( PS ), which falls to 3. the Commission. They also entered, and were also admitted, draft resolutions Nos 593 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include sea cucumber, arguinensis hollothury species, in the list of species referred to in the Marine Animal Catch Regulation ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 594 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by defending and valuing the São Bento Station ( Porto ) ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 595 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to solve the problems facing emergency services ( CFP ), which fall to 9. the Commission, 596 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with Law No 65 / 2015 of 3 July and establish the year 2017 / 18 as a date to extend the universality of pre-school education for children 3 years of age ( PSD ), 597 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an evaluation of the special resettlement programme ( PER ) and consider the introduction of amendments to the scheme in order to update it in order to adapt it to the needs of the current family aggregates by promoting the rehabilitation of buildings ( CDS-PP ), 598 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government bet on an active, effective and comprehensive policy for the defence and projection of the Portuguese language ( CDS-PP ), 599 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the national census of all situations in Portugal which are in need of reallocation, in conjunction with local authorities, and develop a new resettlement programme ( PSD ) and 600 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures for the suspension of demolition and disposals without alternative, updating housing needs and ensuring the right to adequate housing and social protection ( PCP ). In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I recall that at the end of this session we will have the traditional Chantre das Janeiras in the Assembly of the Republic and also that all diplomats who were present at the Diplomatic Seminar this year principle will come to the House and will certainly like to see the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. So let's start with the political statements. To that end, Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to wish all Members and all Members. Members present in this Chamber an excellent year of 2017 and who meet the best expectations of each, also making vows that, in 2017, Portugal continues in the right direction, as it was in 2016, that for the Portuguese was in fact a year different from the previous. in 2016 it was proven that, contrary to what was stated by the previous government and by the majority who supported it, it was possible to do different and that it was possible to do better. We should therefore recognise that it is not easy to oppose this government, especially when the Portuguese perceive and recognize the good work that has been done throughout this year. in 2016 everything went wrong to the right, which is still visibly nuisanced today. And it is discouraged because, in fact, it did not expect an approved State budget to exist today, which, like the previous one, helps to improve the lives of Portuguese, especially those most affected by its governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The opposition is disgruntled because, after four years in front of Europe, they have realized, as all Portuguese have also realized, that this is not only the best way to defend the interests of our country, as were these same European bodies, to whom the previous government blindly obeyed, who quickly imposed on Portugal a process of sanctions due to excessive deficit, which ended up setting bare the real failure that was the PSD and CDS governance. in the same way, perhaps inspired by the government that supported, which was a true champion of the failed forecasts, the opposition went all year 2016 to predict the failure of the budget forecasts made by this government. But the truth is that this will be the first government in the history of Portuguese democracy, which will achieve a deficit below 3% and meet the budgetary targets with which it has committed itself, at the same time that it has returned income, which are Portuguese by law, which has returned social rights and has returned dignity to our country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even when they found this government solution of "management" to be well called, trying to give it a depreciative sense, until then things went wrong to the opposition, because today, for most Portuguese, management means hope in the state and in our collective future, it means the restoration of social peace, stability and tranquility in the lives of the Portuguese and a new hope for the young in our country,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... means the end of the guilt speech, as if each Portuguese had to be penitentiated for supposedly having lived above their possibilities. In 2016, in our country, the logic of dividing Portuguese, placing private sector workers against public sector workers or young people against less young people was also ended. A decent society must count on all and only cohesive can be able to face the challenges of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2016, Portugal also saw reducing its numbers of unemployment, a genuine social chaga that condemns thousands of Portuguese to exclusion and despair. And this decrease is also reflected in young unemployment, which in November had a 17% decrease compared to the same month of 2015, the month in which the current government took possession. But 2016 was also a different year for young Portuguese. Finally, Portugal came to have a government that bets on younger generations, which, instead of telling them to emigrate if they are not well, tells young Portuguese people to stay, because Portugal wants to count on them and the state will be on their side and can help overcome the difficulties of those who are at the beginning of life. in 2016, Portuguese youth also felt as a priority the government's wager in public school, universal, free and quality, which resulted in a strengthening of the budget allocation for all levels of education, but also for science, technology and culture. The year 2016 was the year in which some association contracts were reverted which clearly meant public resources that were being misused, channeling them to where they are really useful, allowing, for example, that all students of 1. the basic education cycle can take advantage of free school textbooks. Portugal today has a government that promotes the strengthening of skills and a knowledge-based economy, which contrasts with an obscurantist and gray vision of the previous government, which reflected, for example, its action in higher education. Contrary to what was always the trend of democratic Portugal, the number of students who attended higher education in Portugal fell between 2011 and 2015, consistently, year after year, until reaching the lowest levels of the last 20 years. But this trend was reversed and 2016 was the first year, since 2011, in which the number of students enrolled in higher education increased compared to the previous year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the year that now ended, Portuguese students and their families also saw the value of the maximum tip n° 1 frozen. the cycle of higher education and they have learned that the Socialist Party and its parliamentary group are committed to policies that make higher education more accessible to all, notably through: the creation of a phased universal system of payment of propines in seven benefits; the creation of a regulation of fees and emoluments, common to all higher education institutions; or the replacement of discounts on public transport passes to all students under 23 years of age who attend higher education. All of these are initiatives that benefit, in the first place, the students who need it most. There is still work to be done and this is a path that must be further developed. In 2017, and in the coming years, young Portuguese people hope that the government will continue with those who are the real reason for being the education system, our students, not allowing anyone to stay behind because of lack of economic conditions to attend it. But the young Portuguese also expect, for the year now beginning, that the government will continue to fight seriously the inequalities that have been accentuated in our country, especially after the crisis and the adjustment. It did not have to be that way, but this was an option of the previous government and it was an option motivated by an ideological line that the Socialist Party and its parliamentary group do not follow. This government has met this challenge and this is evident, for example, with recent increases in the minimum wage, the indexer of social support, social income for insertion or family allowance, as part of an integrated strategy to combat child poverty. There's still a lot to do! We do not ignore it and we know that the government does not ignore it. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with all the uncertainties that exist at the international level for the year that now begins, there is one thing with which Portuguese people know that they count for 2017 and for the next years: they count on the Government, the Socialist Party and its parliamentary group committed to building a more dignified, inclusive society with fewer inequalities, which allows the construction of lives achieved, because the obligation of a decent State is not to give up its people in particular their younger generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivan Gonçalves, and my congratulations on being elected leader of Socialist Youth. To ask for clarification, the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy entered in writing. Deputies Luís Monteiro, of BE, and Simon Ribeiro, of the PSD. Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I take advantage of Mr Ivan Gonçalves' recent election to the Secretary-General of Socialist Youth, and thank you for the topic that brings us here today, on the political situation in general, but also on the situation of young people and higher education. Now, it is exactly about higher education that I take this time to ask you two very specific questions, first having to do with the right to public education and free of charge. It is true that, in 2016, we have already taken important steps to make higher education more open to all and more public, a logic of universality, but much still needs to be done and, for us, the fight against aggressive policy of propinas that have each year taken thousands of students away from higher education is a fundamental matter. Obviously, we voted in favour of the phased payment of the tips, but it seems to us that — and we follow the vision of Mr Ivan Gonçalves — it is necessary to deepen the path that has been made in higher education. It is precisely in the logic of deepening the path that was made in higher education last year that we want—and therefore we present here, in the Assembly of the Republic, a bill—the end of the tips in three years. We also had the opportunity, already last year, to see several times writings and to hear statements by representatives of the Socialist Youth, who have been open to discuss this matter in this Parliament. The Associative Movement itself, in December last year, launched a manifesto at the end of the propines, even during this Legislation. My question is very simple, Mr. Member : will the Socialist Party, particularly the Socialist Youth Members, follow the bill of the Left Block and be consistent with what it was saying in 2116, or will it disillusion the academic community and the association movement, who look to the political moment with hope, not approving the bill of the Left Block? Secondly, Mr President, another question also of the greatest importance on higher education...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u7	Mr President, I ask you to finish, because your time is already exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, I ask you another question, also of the greatest importance, which has to do with the foundational model and precariousness. We also had the opportunity to discuss another model of autonomy for universities other than the functional model, which flooded the universities of precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u9	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u10	I will finish, Mr. President. Are you available or not to fight the foundational model and think about another future for higher education? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u11	Mr Ivan Gonçalves, however, informed the Bureau that he wishes to reply together, but not to two requests for clarification, as I have just announced, but to three, since the Bureau has still registered Mrs Rita Rato's request for word. Mr Simão Ribeiro has the floor, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u12	Mr President, in your own words, I repeat the vows of good year to all of you. Members of this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, I would like to begin with a special greeting to the honourable Member for the recent election to the Secretary-General for Socialist Youth and also with a word of thanks to the former Secretary-General for Socialist Youth for the work he has done in front of this youth structure of his party. Mr President, allow me to tell you that during your political statement and because of what you have been saying, I can no longer agree that you have tried to exercise, to give good service to your party and, in particular, to your Government. It was with some pleasure that I found that he talked about issues such as deficit, public school, emigration, labor relations and higher education. These are truly themes that say a lot to the lives of Portuguese and, in particular, to the lives of young Portuguese people. But, Mr, it is with great disappointment that the hearing consecutively speaks, with an exaggerated tone, in the past. And why? Why do I not hear you speak on more current issues, such as those of schools that are closed for lack of employees? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u13	Why do I not hear of the increase in the social support indexer, which allowed more than 5000 or 6000 young people in the previous legislation to be included in the school social action network? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u14	Why does it not speak of the 25 000 young people who, after more than one year, spent Christmas waiting to know whether or not they will be entitled to the school social action grant in higher education? Why does it not speak of the fact that 2016 was the first year without the award of any research scholarship by the Science and Technology Foundation ( FCT )? And now I ask you: since you talked about precariousness, why don't you talk about teachers who have been hired by universities without taking any income at the end of the month? And it continues: why does it not speak in the brutal decrease in the number of internships that have been approved, or not, for young Portuguese people by IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Formation Professional)? And why does it not speak of the proposal of the Social Democratic Party for the inclusion of young people in social dialogue? Moreover: why does it not speak of the reduction, by half, that your Government has carried out in the form of incentives for young recruitment? And why does it not speak of what has been the successive reduction from 2002 to 2015, particularly in the context of permanent young emigration?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u15	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time by more than 50 %. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u16	Mr President, I conclude by saying the following: perhaps it is to agree with your predecessor who said in an interview that the Socialist Youth should not disagree with the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, it should always be consistent with the word of its party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u17	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u18	Mr President — and now, to conclude, Mr President — why does he insist on talking about the past when it is precisely his obligation to work and build the future? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u19	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, first of all on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, would like to welcome your election to the JS Secretary-General. In his political statement, he brought the problems of youth. The problems of youth are the problems of the country, because the problems of the country are the problems of youth and it is important and determined to respond to these problems. Problems that did not begin in 2015 or in 2011 are the result of political options of successive governments that resulted in the waste of the most qualified generation ever and that would be decisive for the development of the country. Therefore, on the part of the CFP, what I would like to tell you is that you can count on the CFP for all those measures that mean the appreciation of the contribution of young Portuguese people to the development of the country. However, it is not possible to talk about the situation of young people passing by the situation of unemployment and precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u22	... because, despite all improvements, it remains a dramatic problem because young people are still affected by precariousness and unemployment, because they are two sides of the same coin. It is not possible to combat unemployment without combating precariousness and it is not possible to combat precariousness because that means more unemployment. Therefore, we understand that a permanent job must correspond to an effective bond. Mr Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro, it does not have to correspond to a stage, it does not have to correspond to a contract for recruitment, it does not have to correspond to an employment-inclusion contract, it does not have to correspond to an internship grant or an investigation grant, it has to correspond to a contract with rights, and in the fight against precariousness it counts with the CFP. With regard to education, it is true that there were positive measures which, with the contribution of the CFP, were possible to achieve, but it is urgent and necessary to go further. We still have thousands of young people in our country who do not apply for higher education because they do not have money to pay their bills and because they are outside the support of school social action. It is necessary to put an end to the principles and to hold the State accountable for an obligation which is its own, that of financing, that of changing the law of social action at school, ensuring support for more students.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u23	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u24	Finally, Mr President, thanking you for your tolerance and saying that on the side of the CFP we will continue here so that the rights of young people are not words to fill but are reality every day. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u25	In reply, Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Members not only for the questions that have been asked to me, but also for the kind words that have led me to my election to the Secretary-General of Socialist Youth. Replying to Mr Simão Ribeiro, I would like to say that, coming from the PSD bench, it is at least strange that someone who has defended the last government, which was the government that most mortgaged the future of Portuguese youth,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... today, come to talk about the future and accuse us, the Socialist Party, who is today trying to make the future of young Portuguese more worthy, of not having a word about the future of these same young people. As regards social action at school, this government increased the allocation, within the State budget, by 5 %. As regards precariousness and internships, this government does not share the view shared by the Government that your bench would bear, that is to say, that having a stage, after a stage, succeeds from a term contract, eventually succeeds from another term contract is a solution for that young person to have a more successful life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The view of our Government is that the stages are important in the initial phase of a professional journey, but these stages must be progressively replaced by termless contracts that can allow younger people to have the conditions for emancipation and a more dignified life. It is therefore natural that today there is a different policy, and that is also our function. As regards the allocation of the FCT grants, the Minister has already replied that the deadlines are being met,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u27	They're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u28	...the applications are within the deadline and the answers will be given in the coming weeks. I would also like to tell you that this week the government has paid EUR 1, EUR 9 million of late scholarships in higher education, which your Government has not paid. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, to accuse this government of delays in the payment of scholarships is, at least, charged. Mr Luís Monteiro and Mrs Rita Rato, the precariousness of scientific employment is a concern of the Socialist Party and, in fact, there are professionals hired without receiving wages, in the wake of what is the system of invited teachers, it is a situation that should only concern us but for which the Minister has already given the right answer. On the issue of propines, the PS is truly a plural party that closes in itself various views on how higher education funding should be done. Our priority is to extend the social base of students who attend higher education today. It must also be borne in mind that the institutions today depend on the financing of the tips, because the tips today are not being used for what was their initial objective, which was that of improving the quality of education, and that is a problem for which we should discuss.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u29	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u30	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, although it is not a matter that is present in the memorandums of understanding that have originated and that they support this government, this is an issue that must, on our part, deserve the best discussion, because it is important that we discuss the various forms of higher education funding so that we have an ever-increasing higher education of better quality, universal and free of charge, as we stand for it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u31	You have the floor for a political statement on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot accept that there are people in this country waiting hours to be treated in the urgency of a hospital, that there are people with respiratory problems and other complications associated with influenza, patients chosen as urgent cases waiting 7, 8, 9, 10 or more hours for a consultation. [[PSD protests.]] Yesterday, the Amadora-Sintra hospital recorded a 13-hour wait for users chosen with yellow bracelet. Waiting at Hospital São João, Porto, or Portimão hospital exceeded 10 hours and at the PPP (public-private partnership) of Vila Franca de Xira could only respond to urgent cases 7 hours after patients arrived in the emergency. at the end of the year, the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) stopped sending patients to the PPP Cascais hospital because the emergency service of this hospital could not provide an adequate response. We cannot accept these situations. We cannot accept as a society and the Left Block does not accept that this is the present, much less the future, of the National Health Service ( SNS ). [[Congratulations from BE.]] In Famalicão, the influx to the hospital overcrowded the hospitalization and knew of cases of waiting users days in order to be able to be hospitalized. In Keys or Santarém, monkeys were held at ambulances. There are hospitals to demarcate their regular activity, including surgery, in order to respond to users. Again, lack of beds in the boarding room. We do not accept this situation. We know that the situation has causes, it eradicates the chronic underfinancing of the National Health Service, eradicates the options that have been made in recent years, especially by the troika government, the austerity government, the PSD government and the CDS-PP. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u33	Mr President, I ask you to take a short break, because there are many ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen standing. I think that there is a lot of time to be able to sit down, to calm down, and you start your speech again with conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u35	Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u36	I understand that PSD and CDS-PP don't want to understand the causes of what's happening today... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... but no matter how much noise they can make, they will hear that between 2010 and 2015 it was by your hand that 4400 professionals of the National Health Service were eliminated and hundreds of beds were closed in the hospitals of the National Health Service. The measures they carried out made the National Health Service at the limit. We also know that the situation would get worse if they continued in the government because, if this were to happen today, it would be a door that would eliminate the valences in most hospitals. Today there would be a closure of more emergency services according to the previous government's order. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We remind ourselves of all this, we know of all this, but we know of something greater than that: the people of this country do not want a discussion of pass-backs, they even want solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u37	Ah! It's just theater, after all! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u38	That is why we are here and that is what we have seen here present: solutions! It's just that the National Health Service can't be this, it has to be more than this! Let's go to the solutions. Hospitals need more professionals. Despite the increase in contracts that occurred during 2016, the needs of hospitals demand much more. Investment in buildings is needed, increasing its comfort and functionality, investing in nurses, to ensure greater comfort to users, investing in more beds of internment to respond to search peaks. Investment in equipment and technology is needed. Primary health care needs to be strengthened: more specialties, more professionals, longer hours. What is intended is to approach the health care of users. For this it takes investment, for investment it takes money and that is why the Left Block has said that the health budget cannot be used for private financing. We cannot disburse such necessary public resources, we cannot continue to channel hundreds of millions of euros to private people, when this money is needed by the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We cannot spend EUR 450 million on public-private partnerships ( PPP ) in health, when the National Health Service needs this money. The health budget cannot be an income for the private. That is why, because we defend the National Health Service, because we defend the reinforcement of the SNS, because we defend better conditions for the population, that the Left Block will present a legislative initiative so that hospitals currently under PPP regime pass into the public sphere, move on to public management, become managed by the public. Defending the National Health Service is releasing it from the private business. SNS cannot be a market for Group Mello or transnational companies, such as Brazilian Amil or Chinese Fosun, SNS is for users and for users. Commitments and solutions—this is what the Left Block here brings, to ensure better health care for all users. Investing in SNS and saving in private rents...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u39	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u40	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, investing in SNS and saving in private income is so simple! ... enough courage! Let's do it! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u41	Mr Moisés Ferreira, the Bureau records the registration of five Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification, so you want to know how you will respond, if three and then to the other two or two and then to the three...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u42	Two and then three others, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u43	Of course, Mr. Deputies. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Miguel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, who saw him and who saw him! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u45	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u46	There was a lot of noise in this House, because most of the Members are not used to hearing him speak in the Health Committee. You have done here an exercise that is a horrendous political hypocrisy and cynicism, and I will explain why.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u47	It's from the Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u48	Of two, one : or the honourable Member came to complain of ill-treatment on the part of the Socialist Party and the Government — politically ill-treatment, of course — because he supported a government, made a government viable, approved a budget and then complained about the policy that this government is promoting and is implementing,... [[PSD applause.]] ... or support this government, adopts the Budget, supports the policy that this government is implementing, but before the public, before the country, does a cryinguice exercise,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u49	... an exercise in which you complain about what is happening because of this government, this policy and the budget that you have approved. The gentlemen. Members have put Kalashnikov in the penitentiary house and have now come to complain about the agreement they have made with this government. [[BE's protests.]] You don't see, you don't talk, you don't listen, you don't smell, you feel! You have a very delicate feeling about the problems that have come to pass. Mr President, the Minister for Health has now said that this year things are going well within normal conditions, and he says otherwise. So I ask you: and, then, now, what is going to happen? What are you guys gonna do? Do you continue to support this policy that is being developed? How is it that you come here to complain about the results of this policy, when there is more debt in the health sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u50	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u51	...more payment delays in the health sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u52	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u53	I will finish, Mr. President. As you were saying, how do you come here to complain about the results of this policy, when there is more debt in the health sector, more late payments in the health sector, more imbalances, less resources, less money, less autonomy of the units? Oh, my God! The result of all this is that which you have mentioned! You're absolutely right! But, then, what will the Left Block do? That's the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u54	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u55	What an initiative are you going to take,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u56	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u57	Why don't you just wash your hands and make sure it's nothing with you? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u58	You shouldn't have heard!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u59	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moisés Ferreira, we welcome the fact that the Left Block brings the issue of health to the plenary, deeply regrets, firstly, how it did so, but laments above all, because it is thousands of Portuguese that we are talking about, under the conditions in which we know that they are living, and it is deeply demagogic, to say no more, how the Left Block today referred to these situations. Much less — indeed, the CDS has been alerting to this situation since January 2016 — you have cried out in this Chamber for dismantling and destruction of the SNS. You really want to be taken seriously? Oh, my God! You really want to be taken seriously, in front of what they said? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Do you want to be taken seriously or do you want us to look at your speech today as a commissioned number, in which they deny everything they said to defend? Oh, my God! It assumes the responsibilities of your Government, of the Government that you support, because, as we have seen yesterday and we have warned, no measures have been taken for the correct replacement of 35 hours, this government has not been hired by this Government, I repeat, by this Government, by health professionals to guard the times of crisis. You will not have the CDS to make a political chicana about the health of Portuguese, especially in the case of influenza. He won't count on it! He will tell you, yes, to tell you that we need to take consequences from this situation. And that is what I wanted to ask, Mr President: will the Block of the Left, by any chance, present a motion of censure to the Government that you say supports, after what you have said? Oh, my God! Are you? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, it is urgent to take action and solve this problem, it is urgent...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u61	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u62	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, it is urgent to take measures and solve this problem, it is urgent to address the problem of the thousands of extraordinary hours that are owed to nurses and those who have not been hired,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u63	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u64	... it is urgent to reverse a reality that worries everyone. May the Left Block be consistent and stop doing ordered numbers! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u65	To reply, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I am grateful for the questions that Mr Miguel Santos and Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto have put, but I do not fail to point out that they were a tremendous disappointment, since we, the Left Block, felt that they could take this opportunity to apologize to people for what they did for four years at the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u67	Exactly! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u68	They did not take advantage of the opportunity, but we will certainly have others. To talk about hypocrisy, when during the previous government they were simply destroying the National Health Service, Mr. Deputies, about this I certainly have much to learn from you. But it was also a great disappointment, because the Left Block went to the rostrum to recognize that more is needed and presented solutions, presented proposals. [[Zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u69	We went to the forum to say that we need to establish commitments and find solutions for the National Health Service. Have we heard anything from the PSD and CDS-PP? None!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u70	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u71	Political Chicana, yes, several! Solutions... none! Have they been available to discuss the proposal that the Left Block has made, of the rostrum, about the need for the strengthening of professionals in the National Health Service? Oh, my God! Don't! They said nothing! Were they available to discuss the proposal made by the Left Block, of the rostrum, about the need to invest in the infrastructure of the National Health Service? Oh, my God! Don't! They said nothing about it! Have you been available to discuss the proposal that the Left Block has made, of the rostrum, on the need to strengthen the number of beds? Oh, my God! Don't! They said nothing about it! Were they available to discuss the Left Block proposal to end PPPs in health and private health income and invest in the National Health Service? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u72	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u73	Don't! They said nothing about it! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Against health business, private health business is always quiet, as they have been for the past four years. They talk about health chaos, but we talk about health chaos with solutions, with the same ones we presented in the past. Who destroyed 4400 jobs, who eliminated hundreds of beds in the National Health Service, certainly has no solutions to present and discuss. [[PSD protests.]] That is why you realize your silence, that of the honourable Members. Members and Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP, on commitments and solutions for the National Health Service. It is only the most basic war of party politics that they want to do here, but we said, of the rostrum, that people demand more, not just pass-backs,... [[PSD protests.]] ... they want solutions to the problems. We brought these solutions, we came to the debate, we recorded the absence of the PSD and CDS-PP in this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u74	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u75	Mr President, Mr Moses Ferreira, health is always a relevant subject and in situations like this, in which difficulties are more evident, we consider it to be an even more relevant topic. from there today's political declaration of the CFP is also about health, because in it we will have the opportunity to deepen our analysis and our proposal on health matters. But, in an approach to health and the National Health Service, we understand that it is important to highlight the following: firstly, the difficulties that the National Health Service is experiencing today are not the result of chance, are the result of chronic underfinancing of the National Health Service, are the result of the closure and concentration of services, are the result of the devaluation and precariousization of health professionals, are the result of the lack of professionals, are the result of the transformation of hospitals into companies, are the result of a path of transformation of health into profit business, as is the case of PPPs, whose reversal the PCP proposed, at the last Budget of the State. All of this arises from political options of successive governments, with particular evidence for the former Government of the PSD and the CDS. The second question that we understand is that the National Health Service is equipped with many committed professionals, who, despite being exhausted and devalued, are able to ensure that the National Health Service continues to provide satisfactory responses, in most cases. Changing the situation and attacking the difficulties of the National Health Service and the health sector implies a break with the policies and measures that created the current situation and created these difficulties,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u76	... implies adequate funding and fair appreciation of health professionals. from the PCP, we believe that the PS government has to go further in this breach with many of the policies that have led to health having the results that are in sight today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u77	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u78	I shall conclude by saying that the Government must implement the measures that respond to the difficulties that the SNS is experiencing. The State budget already has some instruments that allow and point ways in this direction, namely professional valorisation and the possibility of hiring professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u79	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u80	Finally, Mr President, I ask the honourable Member to agree with this view that in order to solve the problems, the PS Government must go deeper into breaking with the policies of previous governments. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u81	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u82	Mr President, Mr. Moisés Ferreira said, from the rostrum, that in order to defend the National Health Service (SNS) it takes will and courage. We agree, Mr President, and we add that there is also a need for implementing capacity to solve the problems of the Portuguese people. That is why we have found that in the last year, in less than one year, this government has, contrary to the strong trend of the previous government, managed to admit 4000 new professionals to the National Health Service. It is the largest increase of professionals in such a short period, throughout the history of the SNS, since it was created. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in a year we only opened 30 family health units ( USF ) of model Ae 25 family health units of model B, which we all know are priorities to alleviate emergencies. And unlike the previous government, this government, when it found that in the three days when there was a greater influx of emergencies due to the influenza virus, which this year is more aggressive, did not visit the emergencies saying that I saw very well and comfortably accommodated patients. Remember, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what did a gentleman, a member of the government, say this? Oh, my God! But the current government felt that it was necessary to extend the hours of operation in primary health care and therefore we have 201 health centres that currently work daily until 24 hours, including on weekends! This, yes, is knowing how to have responsiveness and sensitivity to solve the Portuguese problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issue of PPPs, we would like to tell Mr. Moisés Ferreira that we already know the position of the Left Block. The Government has decided to open a public invitation to tender to negotiate the conditions for the possible renewal of the concession. however, it is also the option of the current government, as it is publicly known, that, if the conditions do not occur, the government allows to include again the Hospital de Cascais in the National Health Service. Therefore, having no decision, I think it is not worth it right now we are creating here some kind of alarm about the provision of services, which does not exist,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u83	... as, in fact, the Technical Unit for Project Monitoring ( UTAP ) well demonstrated in its report. Therefore, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group continues to support the Government, which has taken essential steps towards the enhancement of the National Health Service, from the level of strengthening of professionals, but also improving the quality of care services. And that has given clear evidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u84	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u85	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mr João Ramos and Mrs Luísa Salgueiro on the questions they have raised and for answering Mrs Luísa Salgueiro. It is true, and indeed, said it from the rostrum, that if we continued with the PSD/CDS-PP government, what we could expect for the National Health Service was much worse, it was the continued degradation of the National Health Service. We know what they had: a gate that eliminated valences in most hospitals in this country. They have published, at the top of the table, an order to eliminate 11 emergencies — I repeat, 11 emergencies — of this country, but today there are even some that are being reopened, with the new political condition that exists in Portugal. It is true that we know that there are more contracts in the National Health Service, but it is also true that we all realize that the National Health Service needs much more. It needs many more professionals, much more investment in technology, much more investment in materials, much more investment in infrastructure and that is why we need to combat the chronic underfinancing of the National Health Service. We need to free money to invest in the National Health Service. And here comes, for example, the issue of PPPs. To be wasting EUR 450 million in public-private partnerships, knowing that a considerable part of this money goes to private pockets, which have nothing to do with health care, is to waste resources that are needed in the National Health Service. That is why we say that the only option that should now be considered was that of the public management of hospitals, which today are under public-private partnership. It's this management that the Left Block defends and that's what the Left Block wants... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... that the government already accepts, and is not listening to markets, because for the Left Block, the market does not take place in the National Health Service. Health benefits take place in the National Health Service ; the market does not take place in the National Health Service! Mr. João Ramos, we agree, of course, with the need to deepen the rupture with what was a policy of cutting, de-investment, troica, PSD and CDS-PP in the National Health Service. We know that dignity needs to be returned to professionals, dignity to users, investing more and better in the National Health Service. I conclude by saying that I agree when it says that it was the professionals who wore the National Health Service shirt that during the years of the greatest distress of the PSD government / CDS-PP, did not allow the rupture, the collapse of the National Health Service. These professionals are those who have really managed to bring quality health care to today. It was not the policies of the previous government, because they were entirely in contravention of the provision of health care that was necessary for populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u86	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u87	I conclude immediately, Mr President. They were the self-denied professionals with a sense of mission of the National Health Service that achieved it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u88	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the first speech of 2017, I would like to wish Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, all parliamentary groups and all of you. Members a good year of 2017. This will certainly be a very demanding year for all, a year with many risks for Portugal and, unfortunately, a year still with many difficulties for the Portuguese. As I said yesterday, well, the president of the CDS, started the year, but it didn't end austerity. And the clearest example of this option, made by the Left Government, is the increase in taxes on fuels. In February 2016, before an oil price, historically and transiently low, the Government decided to increase the tax on petroleum products by 0, 6 €. Instead of compensating the families, instead of compensating the companies for the high prices of the fuels that had occurred in the past, instead of giving a strike to the families and businesses, the government chose to overburden its budgets by reducing the available income and the ability of companies to invest in the economy. That is why the CDS reported this increase and that is why the CDS has always been against this tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u90	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u91	And if, today, the Portuguese are paying more, when they are going to supply a gas pump, this is due to a wrong option by the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, which have plunged our proposals to eliminate this increase in taxes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u92	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u93	This increase in taxes weighs on families, who need the car in their daily lives. This increase in taxes weighs on public transport, which will increase by 1, 5 %, well above inflation last year. This increase in taxes weighs on companies, who need to deliver their goods, who need to receive their raw materials and who need to transport their workers. It happens that today, in 2017, the price of oil is no longer low. Today, compared to January 2016, gasoline costs more 0, 15 € per litre and gas oil costs more 0, 22 €. For a Portuguese who tests the car with 50 liters of diesel, the invoice is 11 € more expensive than a year ago. To this end, it contributes to the rise of the price of oil, but also contributes to the rise of the tax burden on fuels, one of the highest in Europe. In each litre of gas, 56 % are taxed and in each litre of petrol, 63 % of the price goes directly to the state safes. Unfortunately, the prospects for increasing the price of oil do not remain here. The forecast of all analysts is that over 2017 there is a rise in the price of the oil raw material and that will weigh on the Portuguese purse. In February 2016, the Government, when it presented the increase in ISP ( oil products tax ), justified itself by saying that it did so with a fiscal neutrality perspective, i.e. that increased the tax on petroleum products to remove taxpayers what was being lost in revenue of VAT ( value added tax ). Today, with this increase compared to last year's ISP and VAT taxes, the Portuguese, each of us, are paying more 0, 9 € per litre of gasoline and 0, 14 € per litre in gasoline. of the 11 € that are paying more per deposit, 7 € are taxed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fiscal neutrality announced by the Government is no longer the case. in the ISP increasing portfolio, the Government established a reference value on which to charge 0, 88 € per litre in gasoline and 0, 61 € in gas oil. Today, taxation is 0, 92 € in gasoline and 0, 70 € in gasoline, i.e. 0, 4 € in the reference price of gasoline and 0, 9 € in the reference price of gasoline, and the increase in ISP after revisions is 0, 5 € in gasoline and 0, 4 € in gasoline, which means that the government has shifted from fiscal neutrality to tax collection to taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no justification for maintaining this increase in taxes other than the government's tax voracity and the tax voracity of which the Government supports : Socialist Party, Communist Party, Left Block. And that is exactly why the CDS-PP will present here in Parliament an initiative to immediately eliminate this increase in taxes, to eliminate the increase in taxes on petroleum products and thereby protect families and the economy in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u94	Mr President, you have requested clarifications of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u95	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u96	Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u97	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, first of all, for those who have operated the biggest tax increase since 25 April, it takes a huge undoing to come to talk now about tax increases. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Mota Soares, where it was in 2012, what cars is that Mrs. Assumption Cristos was testifying in 2012,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... when the fuel market indicated a historic maximum and the government then satisfied itself with the total tax revenue, not operating any reduction in special taxes or VAT on fuels? This government, it is true, has operated a mechanism that allowed not only fiscal neutrality but also a significant response to consumers, so that this is not reflected in consumption. It is true that this answer has a delay, it has a time gap, but it is possible to achieve and cannot be masked by VV. For example, how other initiatives cannot be masked. What is your position on the incorporation of FAME, biofuels, in oil products? What, after all, is your position on low-cost fuels, the Socialist Party's initiative that you have operated, and well, but what is a PS initiative? What is your response to professional gas oil, which has so often attempted to operate and to which this government has responded? After all, the reformed party became the party of the motorists, or of the reformed motorists, or of the reformed motorists. They don't want VV. You change your speech and you will be reformed by the Portuguese and all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u98	Mr Pedro Mota Soares informed the Bureau that he will answer one by one to the requests for clarification. Please, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u99	Mr President, after this intervention I could not fail to respond in a more direct way. Mr. Luís Testa, I realized that a gift was lost in the Rat Long Christmas tree, which was a rear-viewer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u100	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u101	And I sincerely hope that this rearviewer will be delivered to you. This is because you can only look back, you can't look at the present or the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u103	The honourable Member is talking about the huge increase in taxes. Has the Government that you support already removed this huge increase in taxes? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] You did not withdraw, sir. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u104	Worse, sir! Worse! The Government that you support has in a very direct way increased indirect taxes paid by Portuguese, especially this tax, the tax on petroleum products. Mr President, I would like to remind you here of some figures for the honourable Member to understand, indeed, what his present is, and that is what he will mark in the future. Today, a Portuguese whenever you supply gasoline you pay more 0, 15 € per litre than you paid a year ago and if you supply gasoline you pay more 0, 22 € per litre. That means, sirs. Member, that, for a deposit of 50 litres, if you pay more € 11, it happens that, of these € 11, 7 € are taxed. This is a very strong burden on families and businesses and which, above all, has turned your argument into a lie, because there is no fiscal neutrality today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u105	Today, the Portuguese are paying ISP much more than the revenue that the State has lost from VAT. The honourable Member says that in the future we will see, but the question is that, today, whoever is going to be supplied with a fuel bomb is feeding the Socialist Party's fiscal bias and is feeding on that huge setback that permeates its words. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u106	Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u107	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this matter to plenary, which could not be more timely. I agree with you, when you say that the keyword, the emblematic word of 2016 was « management ». But the key word for 2017 will be "taxes", thanks to these benches on our left side, because, although they systematically announce more wage increases, what we see, at the beginning of this year, is the increase in electricity, the increase in transport, the increase in tolls... do you want more? Oh, my God! We see the increase in a series of essential goods that, thanks to your policy, thanks to what they have proposed to the Portuguese and approved in budget office will be the great novelty for 2017. in fact, as you say, fiscal neutrality has become a huge tax burden, and the issue of fuel is a good example in this matter. It has been announced to us as a measure that would have fiscal neutrality for the Portuguese, but, as we have seen, as Mr Deputies has shown, there is a substantial increase in the Portuguese stock market and, above all, in the stock market, in those which cannot benefit and have not benefited contrary to what you announce and promise, from professional gas oil. in fact, what we will have throughout this year, through this and other taxes, are much more conditional on the growth of the country, which will continue to grow little, thanks to these indirect taxes, which in some way aim to correct and overcome the economic policy errors that you have accumulated throughout 2016 and which will continue to maintain in 2017. These mistakes will compromise the country's economic growth. I ask Mr Pedro Mota Soares whether, with regard to your proposal, he does not understand that they should go any further, to the extent that...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u108	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to synthesize it, so that it will end very quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u109	Mr. President, I'll finish if I leave. As I said, he does not understand that they should go further, in order to transform this elimination of tax into an instrument to support the economy, because what the country needs is to grow and create jobs, in order to continue to feed the social state. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u110	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u111	Mr President, Mr Leite Ramos, I thank you for your question and agree with you. We see today, every day, from the beginning of this year, the prices to be raised. The price of public transport is rising 1, 5 %, far above last year's inflation and, worse than that, with the quality of public transport, unfortunately, it deteriorates until, as we know, public investment, that investment with which the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Socialist Party so much fill their mouths, is falling and falling to historical levels. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u112	But we also remember that the cost of tolls is currently rising, that the price of electricity, in the market that is not free, is rising, that the price of water is rising, that the car tax is rising, that next month the tax on beverages, sugared and not sugared, will rise in a very direct way, and that is how the Socialist Party continues to carry out a tax sack to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u113	But the truth is that the mask has now fallen to the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party, when it announced this increase in taxes, said that it existed, uniquely and exclusively, for there was neutrality, because the state was losing revenue in VAT, since the prices of oil and fuel were very low. It happens that this price is no longer low, during this year 2017 it will not be a low price and today, when any of us go to a gas pump to report the tank of the car, what happens is that it is actually paying much more taxes than it paid a year ago and up to much more than it paid when the prices of gasoline and oil were high. That is exactly why the CDS-PP is advancing with this proposal. In February 2016, as soon as the door office was published, we answered, we presented here, within and outside the Budget, proposals to eliminate it, and we will do it again now. We also want to test the consistency of the leftmost benches that, when they were in opposition, they were often very concerned about the weight that this has for families, and now, what we know, they are quite quiet about it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u114	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u115	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Pedro Mota Soares, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for his good-year votes to the Assembly of the Republic, and to say that every time I hear him speak, I am amazed at his performance ability in the Assembly of the Republic. Frankly, I am surprised, because I thought you would be talking about the introduction of a measure which, in terms of fuel prices, will have a significant impact on the country's economy, which is the introduction of professional gas oil from 1 January, which was confirmed yesterday at a hearing we had with the Secretary of State for Energy, within parliamentary committee. The honourable Member was there, and I did not think he had invoked this talk of an enormous increase in taxes which he invoked in that rostrum, and today he comes here and does not say anything about a measure that is indeed of enormous importance from the point of view of those who carry on transport as the main professional activity. Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, what happens to your memory? Is your memory selective, from those who only see things in 2014 and 2015 and don't remember what happened yesterday or yesterday? This is no longer part of your photographic and parliamentary record, what is the custom of your parliamentary performances? I cannot but ask what your concrete opinion on this measure is. If this measure is indeed relevant to the transport activity, and I am not saying that it is all the transport operators and the representative associations of the sector, which interfere with this measure in the economic activity, I cannot but ask you, Mr President, what you would think if we extended this measure of professional gas oil to all companies, whether they transport goods internationally, or all the others that make transport their essential professional activity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u116	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u117	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Heitor Sousa for his question and even for his compliments. Mr President, our position is very clear: we are against this additional increase in ISP, whether paid by companies or paid by families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u118	And don't forget, Mr, that there are many companies that hire transport, but there are many companies that do their own transport and do not access that gas oil.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u119	Sure! [[Protests by Mr. BE Heitor Sousa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u120	But, Mr President, I am going to give you a number that I think is the most relevant. on 15 June 2015, the price of gas oil before taxes in Portugal was 0, 66 € and the final price for the public in the fuel pump was 1, 23 €. Today, before taxes, the price of gas oil is 0, 55 €, lower than it was in June 2015, but the final price in pump is 1, 25 €, above what it was a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u121	Now! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u122	This, Mr President, has an impact on all matters. The Left Block, which in the past was so vocal to talk about these matters, now only talks about the professional gas oil. Especially gas and gas paid for by families, zero! [[Protests by Mr. BE Heitor Sousa.]] Honestly, I am also surprised to see that the Left Block, which, every year at this point, used to be very concerned about the increase in cost of living, is now silent about the increase of 1, 5 % in the price of public transport, which also has to do with the increase of fuels. I don't see the Left Block talking about it now! [[CDS-PP applause.]] But perhaps, sir, I shouldn't be so shocked. You know why? [[Protests from BE's deputy Joana Mortagua.]] I also remember that over the past year when public investment fell 16 %, having been the lowest public investment rate of the last few years in Portugal, I was expecting to hear the Left Block talk about this. Mr. Deputies, it would have been better if you had been sitting, because it seems that the Left Block, I don't know why it was left out of voice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u123	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u124	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u125	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, in his speech, said that the CDS has always been against the tax burden on fuels, but there is a question that is indisputable and must be put. The former Government of the CDS and the PSD approved a pseudo-green tax, with an increase in the tax burden on fuels and the introduction of new taxes on fuels, as was the case with the carbon rate that imposed gas, gasoline and even natural gas, and this resulted in an increase in the same tax that you now criticize. Question: Does the honourable Member objectively believe that this was a positive or a negative measure? This is because, by two, he has changed his mind and he is making a mistake, or he is still in an attitude of political incoherence and total defeat. The same government that the CDS was part of was the largest responsible for the greatest increase in public transport prices. They've penalized millions of people. The increases you imposed were neither 1 % nor 2 %. [[CDS-PP protests.]] By the way, you will certainly not say that the CFP does not say anything about what is happening, because you certainly know the position of the CFP, or you have an obligation to know, in relation to taxes that are currently being imposed. You know her, certainly. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Now, the increases that you imposed were 20% and more; and in the case of young people, to whom you took steps 4 /NP 18 and sub23, meant double the transport price and the same happened in the case of pensioners, pensioners and the elderly. I would ask whether at the time the honourable Member, where he was in the Council of Ministers, had no news of this. What is under discussion is not a'reviewers' issue, it is a question of political responsibility,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u126	... because the CDS is directly responsible for the political options that give rise to this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u127	I ask you to conclude, Mr President, you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u128	I'm done, yes, Mr. President. The Government that the CDS was part of in the past approved a portal that said that, in particular in fuels, energy price policy should take on an increasingly liberalizing character and, therefore, leadless petrol and road gas should no longer be subject to the maximum price regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u129	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u130	I will finish, Mr. President. And that's why the situation got where it came from and it's how it is. You bring this discussion here, but you bring the proven deposit of political hypocrisy and demagogy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u131	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u132	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I thank you for your question. Let us, then, speak of the past, Mr. Even now, I have stated here that, in the past, even at the highest price of raw materials, the final consumer price was lower than that which is now being paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u133	It's not! [[It is! It is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u134	See the price of diesel in June 2015, see the final price and see the price today, Mr. But if you want to talk about the past, Mr President, we have to start talking about your past.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u135	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u136	The honourable Member is very indignant about the tax burden on fuels. But has the burden of tax decreased with the government that you support? No, it didn't go down! Did you present any measures to eliminate tax burden?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u137	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u138	No, sir! The tax burden has not diminished, sir! It's increased! at present, there are five percentage points above what was in 2015, Mr. That is why I have to ask you: where was the CFP and the CFP rhetoric, when here in this Parliament a proposal was made for the elimination of this additional ISP? [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u139	Where was the PCP? [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] I remember: I was next to the PS and BE voting against this proposal. And he was certainly not on the side of the workers, nor on the side of the Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Mr President, I know your proposals. I heard what the Portuguese Communist Party said, for example, regarding the increase of 50 cents in the tolls of the 25th April Bridge. Mr. Member, using an image that is very close to your parliamentary leader, which is the image of the chickens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u140	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u141	...I heard the PCP crashing. Prava was very small, Mr. Deputy, very small. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u142	For a political statement, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They persist in the National Health Service ( SNS ), although measures have been taken that we consider to be positive, many problems that concern the CFP and need to be resolved. PCP concerns focus on the difficulties experienced daily by users of the National Health Service, those who wait too many hours to be cared for in emergency services, those who remain in monkeys because there are no beds at the hospital to receive them and those who have been waiting for several months for consultation or surgery. Open... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u144	The resolution of these problems requires immediate measures, such as bed opening — it is recalled that in recent years 900 beds have been closed in the SNS — the extension of the functioning of primary health care and the hiring of professionals needed to operate the services. But it will only be effectively resolved with the taking of structural measures, those measures which have to go through the fight against precariousness and recourse to the subcontracting of temporary work enterprises, the recovery of wages, the defrosting of careers and the replacement of the payment of quality hours, and covering the necessary investment—and much claimed—in the renewal and acquisition of new equipment for hospitals. The resolution of the SNS problems does not require new solutions, it is enough that there is political will and that the government begins to implement many measures which are already included in the State budget and which resulted from the intervention of the CFP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The seriousness of the problems facing the National Health Service today stem from the political options taken by successive governments and, in particular, from the seriousness of the policy carried out in the last four years by PSD and CDS, the consequences of which will be felt for many years and in some cases irremediablely, that the emigration of thousands of professionals who could be working at the SNS is only one example. Options that have taken deliberately and with the clear intention of weakening the SNS and favouring large economic groups operating in the health sector, allowing them to expand the business in health, where public-private partnerships (PPI) are included, but not exhausted here. The last few weeks have been successful in studies and opinions on public-private health partnerships. However, everyone is sick and constructed in an economical logic, that is, everything is summed up by the idea that the relevant is whether it goes cheaper or more expensive for the state to make a PPP, or renew it, or the State takes over directly management. For the support of the selected logic, the studies present PPPs such as El Dorado. in those units everything goes well, there are only good results to present, great quality indicators and — stop! — less charges for the State and cheaper compared to public administration. However, studies and their authors have forgotten to look at the provision of health care, for the numerous situations in which patients with severe diseases have been refused or replaced the medication prescribed by their assistant physician, the transfers of patients to be treated in public units, or because the diseases they were suffering were serious or because they did not have the specialty to function despite being contractually assumed that they should have it. They also forgot—they were scared! — the precariousness of the workers or the work overload to which they are subject. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u145	This is the hidden reality of the privatization of health through PPPs. This is the reality that users feel in their lives and in their health and it is in the name of these lives and that health that they should refuse the PPP model and that they should demand their reversal,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u146	... as much as this costs the large economic and financial groups, which accumulate millions of profits at the expense of Portuguese disease. The PCP completely rejects the PPP model, whether the current one, which includes the construction and clinical management, is the construction model only. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP, continuing its commitment to the Portuguese workers and the Portuguese people of intransigent defence of the National Health Service and the need of the Assembly of the Republic to monitor and monitor existing public-private partnerships in health, today delivered two requests to the competent committee. That is, a requirement for a working group to be set up to carry out the political evaluation of PPPs, to assess what goes beyond the golden indicators and to evaluate the reality that is hidden and the damage that has been caused to the patients, professionals and even to the public record; and another requirement to ensure that the Government keeps the Assembly of the Republic informed of all the difficulties it takes and of the data it obtains regarding the management of hospitals managed in PPPs — and, immediately, of the Hospitals of Cascais and Braga, because they are those for which, during the year, decisions need to be made. The defence of the SNS requires clear and unbiased policy options: the intransigent defence of public management, the reversal of PPPs, the strengthening of investment and financing, the hiring of professionals, the respect and enforcement of their rights and the implementation of measures initiated, that the application of 35 hours and its extension to all SNS professionals is just one example. This is the commitment of the CFP. That's why we work every day. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u147	Allow me, this first time that I address to the plenary this new year, which I wish to all of you. Members a good year of 2017. To request clarification from Mrs Carla Cruz, four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Member, how do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u148	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u149	Mr. José Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u150	Mr President, Mrs Carla Cruz, I begin by saying to you: « Well, pray Brother Tomás, do as I say, do not do what I do». And on this point, she said a year ago, under the same circumstances, that the rupture of emergency services is the result of government policies. In fact, the newspaper Avante, in its editorial, at the same time, in January 2015, said that the break-up in emergency services was a de-investment in the National Health Service. [[And now it's what?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u151	I ask you, what has changed, Your Honor? Has it changed the policy of the CFP, in support of this health policy, to the health policy of the responsibility of this government? Does the CFP support this government's health policy, or does it not support this government's health policy? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u152	I would like you to answer this question very clearly. I also want to say that it's easy to talk about PPPs, it's easy to say the same thing "Well preached Friar Thomas...". I ask you: if the government negotiates or renegotiates the PPP of the Cascais Hospital or others, does the PCP get support from this government, or does it not get support from this government? We must answer these and other questions clearly. It is that we are already used to the speech of the « say and do not do». When it was said here that it was necessary for health centres to be open during the night and for more hours to respond to this flu crisis, everyone blamed the previous government. I can tell you that inside, especially in some districts like mine, health centres were closed at night by the Government of the Socialist Party in Eng. José Socrates. Now, as I know, this is still a government of the Socialist Party. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u153	These are the issues that must be raised so that emergencies can have the dignity they deserve. The other essential issue that needs to be mentioned is this: without investment and without knowing what is taking so many people to emergencies, no conclusions should be drawn. I do not see the PCP today, as BE also said recently, with the media, with a group of Members and their leaders visiting the emergencies and health units, speaking on television, saying that health is a failure and that health needs to be changed. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u154	In reply, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u155	Mr President, I thank Mr José Silvano for the questions raised. Mr President, I would like to ask the honourable Member: is the CFP now not putting the problems in place? Now, does the PCP present no solutions? Mr President, what we were saying in the past, we are still saying in the present. Therefore, every day, we denounce the problems and present proposals,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u156	... contrary to the PSD Members, who, during the period when the PSD was in government, were silent and supported the measures being implemented, of destruction, of investment, of attack on the rights of users and professionals. The PCP, worrying and carrying out its commitment to the users, to the workers and in defense of the National Health Service, recently presented proposals in the State Budget to combat precariousness. How did the PSD vote on these proposals? [[PCP applause.]] The PCP, assuming the commitment to the defence of the professionals of the work teams and the quality of health care provision to users in the SNS, presented a proposal for the replacement of the temporary work of temporary work enterprises by professionals with links and rights. How did the PSD vote on this proposal? You voted against this proposal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u157	But it was on the initiative and proposal of the CFP that today there are instruments in the State budget that allow the Government to take measures that mitigate and solve the problems that have not been created, uniquely and exclusively, by the PSD and the CDS-PP, but which have been greatly aggravated by the disastrous and serious policy that PSD and CDS have had in the health sector. They weakened the public response and transferred it to the private sector, not only through PPPs (public-private partnerships),...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u158	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u159	... but also in other ways, especially by the transfer of hospitals from the SNS (National Health Service) to the Mercy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u160	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet Mrs Carla Cruz for the matter she has brought. Indeed, the National Health Service cannot be managed under an economical logic, we fully agree on it. under this economic logic, a good hospital is a hospital that does not provide health care, because it has no expense. And so if you don't have any money, it's a good hospital. This is the logic that we do not want in the National Health Service and this is the logic that privates bring to the National Health Service. That is why we say that private individuals do not take place in the National Health Service and that PPPs do not take place in the National Health Service. See, PPPs are more concerned with making a management turned to their own profitability and the distribution of profits by their shareholders. And if something goes wrong, they cut off the professionals, cut into the workers' rights, impose false green receipts or cut into health care, as often happens. In fact, the Left Block had the opportunity to still recently present a question to the Ministry of Health about the PPP of Cascais. Taking into account complaints from professionals, we were aware that Cascais PPP uses and abuses false green receipts in the case of nurses, doctors and operational assistants. Cascais PPP uses and abuses an indicator manipulation file to then say that it has good health care indicators. But, after all, this is not the case, what it does is to manipulate these own indicators. And, therefore, what I would like to ask Mrs Carla Cruz is whether she has knowledge of these situations and believes, as the Left Block, that the only way to guarantee work rights to SNS professionals is to really revert these hospitals to public management and that the best way to ensure the best health care for users is to effectively revert these hospitals to public management. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u162	In reply, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u163	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I thank you for this question. Indeed, PPPs are a charge that the State, the public record, has. But it is not just the economic issue that should concern us. It is in fact the impact that private management — because it is private management that we are talking about — has on the provision of health care and on the life of professionals who perform their duties there. We know, indeed, that professionals who work in PPPs, in all PPPs, Cascais, Braga, Vila Franca de Xira, Loures, are subject to precariousness. They fatten the precariousness, the false green receipts, the precarious contracts to the part. It also thanks the use of temporary employment companies, tolls. This situation not only harms these professionals, insofar as it violates the rights of these workers, because a permanent need has to correspond to a permanent link of work—that is why we have presented a proposal to combat precariousness—but it also has very serious repercussions on the provision of health care, because it violates a fundamental pillar, which is the provision of teamwork, which has enabled the National Health Service to have health care services and has allowed there to be an evolution of health indicators in Portugal. For all this, in the past we were against PPPs, today we are against the current model of PPPs and we will continue to be against PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u164	They're talking against it, but low!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u165	Therefore, we have presented, within the Budget of the State, a proposal for a reversal of PPPs and we will continue to beat ourselves by the reversal of all PPPs, particularly PPPs in health, because that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u166	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u167	I will finish, Mr. President. We will continue to beat us so that there is a public management of hospitals and the National Health Service and we will not compact with the privatization and private management of the SNS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u168	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the awakening of the PCP of a noisy silence that has kept on health... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u170	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u171	...and we welcome Mrs Carla Cruz's speech. But obviously we do not stop complaining, and we believe it to be even offensive, that the honourable Member spends her speech on PPPs and that not one word has said about the situation of hospital emergencies that have nothing to do with PPPs, I repeat, have nothing to do with PPPs. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u172	You didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u173	Mrs Carla Cruz is unaware of the situation of thousands of Portuguese who are in the urgent hours and hours waiting in hospitals that have nothing to do with PPP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u174	You didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u175	I heard, and I listened carefully! In fact, it is regrettable that Mrs Carla Cruz has also ignored the fact that the Government which supports having made miraculous announcements at the beginning of the year, saying that 'now it is'! You have sold illusions that everything would be better, since you were not in a position to hinder financial assistance, everything would be different in the health situation...! The CDS soon warned that the 35-hour replacement, as it was done, would be a cripple. You have collaborated in bringing teams to the limit, with thousands of extraordinary hours behind schedule, with professionals in a state of exhaustion and with the commitment of assistance in many units in this country. You are complicit in this reality! The question is this, Mrs Carla Cruz: what are the political consequences of this situation? Are you going to announce any demonstrations at the hospital door where the Portuguese are waiting hours? When will he be and where will he be? Or will you announce that the CFP submits a motion of censure to the Government, that it has not taken due action and that it has responsibility for this situation? It's this government, it's not the previous one, Mrs. Member! It is this government that has to hire professionally to deal with this situation. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP and the PSD MP Angel War.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u176	In reply, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u177	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, thank you for the question that has been put to us, because it will also allow us to clarify the memory of the Member of the CDS and of her Parliamentary Group. [[Talk about the present!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u178	Is the honourable Member now presenting himself as the worker's rights defender? Oh, my God! He said the workers today are tired and exhausted. Who cut off the extra hours in the provision of health care? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u179	Did you put them back?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u180	This is your government, it's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u181	Who increased working hours for 40 hours? Who reduced the number of professionals that made up the teams? Who was it? It was PSD and CDS! [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War and CDS-PP Member Isabel Galliça Neto.]] Who has allowed and favored more than 1500 health professionals out of the country for emigration in recent years? These professionals have gone out and are now missing the National Health Service. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War and CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] These professionals could and should be in the National Health Service. But, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, let me also tell you that you were not paying attention to the political statement, because I began exactly by saying that I was worried...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u182	Ah! They're worried...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u183	... and that the problems of users who wait hours to be cared for in an emergency service need to be solved. And, moreover, Mrs Deputy: we said that today there are many patients in monkeys and that they have no beds. And you know why they don't have beds in boarding schools? Because the PSD and CDS-PP have cut 900 beds in recent years! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] However, steps have already been taken with the support and initiative of the CFP to reverse the PSD and CDS-PP policy to attack the rights of workers and users.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u184	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u185	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Isabel Galriça Neto, that's why we work! But what we have found is that when we put forward concrete proposals, as we have presented in the State budget, the CDS continues to vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u186	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u187	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u188	Vote against why it is against public management, because it is against the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u189	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u190	That's exactly why you do it. Do it because it's an ideological question! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u191	To make the last request for clarification, Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Silvano and Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto have just had a deep amnesia attack between 2011 and 2015. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] In fact, Mrs Carla Cruz, we all know that these situations that have to do with peak flu periods, with periods of influx to emergencies and with the resulting constraints are not unpublished. That is how they were, and they will probably continue to be. But there is indeed a great difference between this government and the previous one. It is that this government does not ignore or conceal its responsibilities, on the contrary, it faces them and resolves them! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] And the proof that it has done so is the enormous effort that has been made: we have hired 3800 new professionals, 1600 nurses, have been open new emergencies, has been made an effort in order to invest and convert materials that were depreciated, has been made an effort to open new wings and new beds, as is the case with the Curry Cabral Hospital, the Hospital de Santo António dos Capuchos, the Hospital Distrital de Santarém, the Hospital de Between Douro and Vouga, we have hired more family doctors, we have extended the schedules of health centers. Mrs. Members, this government, in the exercise of responsibility, does not ignore difficulties, faces them and solves them! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Carla Cruz, the Socialist Party has no ideological prejudices about PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u193	Unlike the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u194	We will always privileged, repeat, always privileged, public service, but we have no ideological prejudice regarding PPPs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u195	You're listening, ladies. PCP Members?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u196	... especially when the quality of the service provided is concerned and when it is concerned the focus of the situation and the focus of the system, the patient, and when this solution is more efficient and focused on the one who is the patient's interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u197	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u198	Finally, Mr President, asking Mrs Carla Cruz whether, despite the difficulties we all recognize, we can see and appreciate the progress made in 2016, and in the balance sheet, what evaluation makes of this government procedure in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u199	In reply, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u200	Mr President, Mr António Sales, I am grateful for the question you have put to me and of course I cannot but say, in agreement with the honourable Member, that the problems that you are witnessing today and which persist in the SNS are not of today, they are not of yesterday's political options of successive governments, which have been aggravated by the political and ideological options that the PSD and the CDS-PP have taken during the four years in which they were in the government. This serious situation has made the SNS more vulnerable: we do not forget the promotion of close proximity services, especially in the interior; we do not forget the violation and closed attacks that have caused users with the brutal increase in moderate rates and have hindered access to health care; nor do we forget the change they have made to the non-emergency transport of patients, which has led many patients to be without treatment, without consultation and without examination. Although we appreciate the positive measures that have been taken over the past year — the hiring of professionals, the reduction of moderate rates, the reopening of beds and services that were closed — we continue to say that it is necessary to go further. In fact, there must be a clear desire to begin to implement the legal instruments that are available and are even in force today due to the approval of the State Budget for 2017, in order to strengthen the public response, to return and continue to return and deepen the rights of workers and to strengthen the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u201	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u202	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr António Sales, allow me to tell you that the CFP has rejected PPPs in the past, rejects PPPs in the present and will continue to reject PPPs because the General National Health Service, universal and free will only be fully met with adequate public management with adequate funding, with professionals in appropriate numbers and with a necessary investment. That is why we work and these are the proposals that we put forward every day. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u203	For a political statement, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the Greens come to the rostrum to talk about the nuclear power plant in Almaraz and, unfortunately, like all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for other reasons. We recall that the first nuclear reactor came into operation in 1981 and the second in 1983. It was a nuclear power plant built in the 1970s and is today the oldest nuclear power plant in Spain. Their useful time of life expired in 2010. However, the Spanish Government has extended its period of operation by 2020, but as we know, the prospect is that this period can still be extended by the Spanish Government's will. This nuclear power plant is absolutely obsolete. And, as is public knowledge, there have been various problems and incidents, which have been recorded in recent times but not only in recent times, have also occurred over the years, and it represents a serious risk and therefore must be a deep concern on the part of both the people and the institutions that represent them. It happens, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom the Spanish Government has decided to build a nuclear waste store to serve the Almaraz nuclear power plant. This alone represents or reveals the commitment of the Spanish Government to further prolong the period of operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant for at least 20 years. however, the Spanish Government has decided to build this nuclear waste store completely ignoring the Portuguese Government and the Portuguese population. Now, knowing that the Almaraz nuclear power plant is in operation just 100 km from the Portuguese border and knowing that its cooling system uses waters of the Tejo River — we are talking about an international river with absolute relevance for Portugal, as it completely crosses our country— are evident the risks and the cross-border impacts that a project of that nature has, taking into account its characteristics, as well as those that I have now announced, and which are directly linked to our country in particular. As is known, the rules on the impacts of cross-border projects have not been observed. The Portuguese and the Portuguese Government have not been found in this field. Thus, we do not see how to qualify the attitude of the Spanish Government in any other way than to be as deeply indecent towards our country. We also see the behaviour of the Portuguese governments on this issue: this has been known since 2015, at least, and the previous government has done absolutely nothing about this issue; the current government has agreed late and late on this matter, because the Greens have repeatedly warned here in the Assembly of the Republic, and not only for this claim by the Spanish Government and for the dangers of the German nuclear power plant, and the Portuguese Government has continued to drag a pronouncement on this matter. In view of this so-called decision by the Spanish Government without having listened to the Portuguese in an environmental impact assessment process, the Portuguese Government has now taken the decision to formalize a complaint to Brussels due to the violation of Community legislation on the cross-border impacts of such a project. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Greens here are saying today is that the Portuguese Parliament cannot remain silent on this issue. I am not speaking, of course, of the numerous interventions that have already existed by each parliamentary group and, very often, by the Greens; I am talking about the importance of a united voice by the Portuguese Parliament at this time. For this reason, the Greens have already circulated a proposal for a joint text of a condemnation vote, which, tomorrow, during the voting period, the Assembly of the Republic must vote unanimously, thus condemning this decision by the Spanish Government and defending the rights of Portuguese in relation to the environment and the environmental impact of cross-border projects. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that a joint text will be reached, which is currently receiving the contribution of the other parliamentary groups, so that tomorrow it can be voted unanimously, as I said. In addition, on 24 January, the Minister for the Environment will be, on a proposal from the Greens, in the Committee on the Environment, to provide more information on this matter, because it is important that the Assembly of the Republic accompany, by step and by step, what will happen. In addition, The Greens, on January 19, so before this hearing with the Minister, will make a parliamentary public hearing so that the associations, movements and citizens are heard on a matter that is so relevant to our country. Mr President, in conclusion, we believe that the involvement of the people, the citizens and the government is decisive in a matter as relevant as this, because what the Constitution says is that we all have the right to an absolutely healthy environment and life. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u205	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the Bureau registered, to request clarifications, with five Members. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u206	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u207	Thus, to ask for clarification, first of all, you have the floor of Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u208	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to begin by welcoming the fact that she has brought in — and all the parliamentary groups have done so, both in committee and in plenary — once again, to the debate in Parliament. Indeed, the Almaraz Central is today a serious threat and a great concern for all Portuguese and, in particular, for Portuguese living on the inside and on the border. This power plant, as you have mentioned here, is already in the process of extending its normal life cycle and the Spanish Government is preparing to extend its operation further. The construction of a nuclear waste store is therefore worrying in itself, but it is much more worrying because what it really indicated is the will to prolong the useful life of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. And that's the focus and that's where we have to focus, not on building the warehouse and its environmental impact across borders. That's not what counts; what counts is to close the Almaraz power station. In April last year, Parliament voted resolutions, which were then merged into a joint text, published in June 2016 by Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 107 / 2016, which expressly states that the Portuguese Government should intervene with the Spanish Government and the European institutions in order to close the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. That is why we have to fight in this Parliament. The Social Democratic Party has long been calling for a strong attitude on the part of the Government and the truth is that the Minister of the Environment has always heard about the market and has always said that he was very quiet about this process, and we are talking about April until now. in the budget debate we raised this issue here in plenary, Mr Minister thought that it was not so serious, but, despite everything, it began to have a different attitude. It was late, too late and it is seen that it was extremely late!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u209	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u210	I'm done, Mr. President. In order not to be more thoughtful, I would like to raise a question to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u211	But be quick, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u212	How will the Greens Ecological Party, which supports the Government, require the Government of the Portuguese Republic to comply with the resolution which has been adopted and which requires the Spanish Government to close the power station in Almaraz? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u213	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u214	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, once again comes to this House the question of Almaraz, now brought by the Green Party. As Mrs Berta Cabral has just mentioned, this is a matter which is far from new and which has already been introduced by all political forces, which also means that it is a cross-cutting concern. I cannot agree in any way with the comments that have been made on the indifference of the Government and of course the Minister of the Environment, on the problem here, and I would therefore like to divide the problem into two points. A first point relates to the seven accidents that have occurred and the second point concerns a clear failure to comply with a Community directive on the authorisation given by the Spanish Government without consulting the Portuguese Government and on the observance and conduct of an environmental impact study for the construction authorisation of the warehouse. As has already been mentioned here, this House approved a proposal aimed at the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. We all recognize the latent danger that exists there. in this sense, the Socialist Party does not run away from its discussion, trusts the Government, that it has not been isolated or rested on the subject and, moreover, is also public, informed that it would be available to bring this problem to the European Commission if there was no response from the Spanish Government. In parallel, the Committee on the Environment has successively been addressing this issue and has so recently requested higher authorization for a meeting with the Government of Extremes. It is therefore important that, since this is an international problem, this matter can be seen between the two countries and, in particular, between the Portuguese Parliament and the Parliament of the State. For this reason, the Socialist Party's testimony to our concern and also to our confidence in the government's action on this matter remains here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u215	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u216	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, thank you very much for bringing this subject back to debate in Parliament. This is a matter of greater importance to the security of the country — it is clearly a problem of security of the country, of our peoples and of our territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u218	It must be said that Greenpeace, an entity that is attentive to these matters, has already publicly presented the case of Almaraz as an extreme case of insecurity. In fact, the conditions that led to the serious accident of Fukushima are the same technical conditions that exist in Almaraz. Thus, in view of the seriousness of this situation, we believe that it would be of all benefit to the Minister of the Environment next day 12 that he would move to Madrid and be able to tell the Government of the Spanish State that we want the closure of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. Moreover, we believe that this would be the most useful position to implement the resolution adopted unanimously in the Assembly of the Republic. We think that Almaraz is an extreme case, as Greenpeace says, but it is also a case that poses an unacceptable risk to populations on both sides of the border. Therefore, without calling into question that, in fact, the central issue is the closure of that nuclear power plant, we are concerned about the approval of the construction of the temporary warehouse for nuclear waste, because this clearly indicates the desire of the Spanish Government to prolong the life span of that already obsolete power plant. On the other hand, this issue raises another issue that is related to this risk being unacceptable and being a risk for which the populations of our territory, especially the populations that live throughout the Valley of the Tagus, are not prepared. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Heloísa Apolónia whether or not she considers it essential, as has already been said by the meteorologist Costa Alves a few days ago, that it be planned, that it be drawn up, that an emergency plan be put into practice for any incidents occurring at the nuclear power station in Almaraz in order to protect, safeguard, have a preventive attitude on this issue and thus protect the population of our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u219	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u220	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to begin by saying that we consider the issue brought by the Member on the nuclear power plant in Almaraz to be of greatest relevance. I would therefore like to tell the honourable Member and the whole House that, at the end of the morning, the CDS sent a question to the Minister of the Environment on this matter to find out which efforts are being made by the Minister of the Environment, before this decision by the Spanish Government of the approval of a new nuclear waste store in Central Germany, in order to safeguard the national interest, the Portuguese interest, and that of our people. On the other hand, and since it seems to us that there could be a violation of Community directives by Spain, we would also like to know whether or not a complaint has been made by the Portuguese Government with the European Commission. We consider it essential to be clarified on these issues and, since they are matters of great importance, we consider it essential to be accompanied by this House in step by step. Finally, following the challenge put forward by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to say that the CDS accompanies the condemnation vote, which you mentioned here in your speech, and therefore we agree and will support this condemnation vote, because that is our conviction and that is what we think serves the interests and security of all Portuguese people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u221	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u222	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Heloísa Apolónia on her speech and to bring back to Parliament the concerns relating to this matter. The CFP has been monitoring the concern about the impacts and consequences of prolonging the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant beyond its working life. In fact, over the past few years, as has already been said and as you mentioned in your speech, there have been several incidents in this nuclear power plant. thus, the CFP has always been affirming the need of the Portuguese Government, of course in accordance with the means which it has, monitoring, monitoring, monitoring, monitoring and holding all information on this matter in view of the safeguarding of the public interest and the safety of the Portuguese population, and in this sense we have been placing on the table the possibility of the government setting up a joint committee to monitor the situation. We believe that the relationship between Portugal and Spain on the nuclear power plant must respect the principles of relations between sovereign states and that Spain must respect international treaties on nuclear energy and their security conditions. from that we will consider that the decision taken by the Government of Spain to move forward with the construction of a nuclear waste store in the centre of Almaraz cannot be accompanied by us, and, indeed, we will soon show our support for the proposal of the Parliamentary Group on Greens towards this Assembly of the Republic to take a vote of condemnation on this matter. We have come to disagree with the fact that the Portuguese Government has not been involved in the process leading to this decision and also that the Government of Spain has not carried out the assessment of the cross-border environmental impact. We believe that, with regard to this matter — and we reiterate what we have already said — the Portuguese Government must be intransigent, firm and determined in the defence of national interests, in the defence of the security of the population, and must act and take all the necessary steps to do so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u223	In order to answer the set of questions that have been put, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Deputies Berta Cabral, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Pedro Soares, Álvaro Castello-Branco and Paula Santos, for the considerations they have made and for the issues they have raised, which, I think, have taken into account the generalized feeling in Portugal, because all the benches have spoken fundamentally in the same sense, i.e. against the Almaraz nuclear power plant, in an absolute misunderstanding about the process that led the Spanish Government to decide the construction of a alleged nuclear waste store to serve the Almaraz nuclear power plant. Indeed, who is aware of the risks and impacts that this obsolete nuclear power plant has on our country and who has the desire to guarantee security to the Portuguese population, the Portuguese territory, the ecosystems in our country, even taking into account the cross-border impacts of such a project, can in fact only consciously take an absolute rejection position of what is happening and demand what has been approved by resolution of this Assembly of the Republic, that is, the closure of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. We are aware that one nuclear power plant does not close overnight, we know that the question of which they always speak to praise nuclear energy, that which is very cheap energy, is nothing like this, because they have withdrawn from the numbers which present fundamental issues, such as that of the need at all nuclear power stations to proceed with their dismantling by the end of their lifetime, which is very expensive, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! There is one question that cannot be taken for granted: we are talking about a very dangerous environmental situation, a very serious risk to people's lives, which is also concentrated in our country. I recall that in the 1980s there was a very strong struggle in the country, where the Greens also became deeply involved in Spain's claim to install a landfill for nuclear waste in Aldeadávila and at that time there was a very great movement in the country about this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, Parliament must continue to follow this issue in a proactive way, taking positions and making demands on the Government. But now we are going to tell the truth as it is: the previous government, who knew about this, has done nothing strictly! It was absolutely passive! This Government has agreed late and late on this matter, because it has been long ago that it should have reached the Spanish Government and said what it was necessary to say, on behalf of the Portuguese, on the closure of the nuclear power plant and even on this project of the construction of the nuclear waste store, which was already known. But no! The government has shut down, and when the fact is almost over, it is trying to act. We believe that it will not be too late, and we will help that, in fact — and that is our intention and it must be Parliament's intention — not too late.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u225	We now turn to today's last political statement, giving the floor to Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD has accepted, collaborated and sought constructively to improve the Government's bill that perfects the first amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System, approved by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August. We have done so for two reasons: firstly, to correspond to what we believe to be one of the most pressing national imperatives which is embodied in the improvement of the judicial system, seeking a more agile, effective and better justice for the citizens. Deficiencies in the functioning of justice, although often overcrowded in an unfair way, have long been part of the collective imagination of things that urgently recover in Portugal. in this sense, and in corporating a permanent call for the despartirability of fundamental choices about justice, in order to achieve a union of purposes between politicians and the main actors of the system, has come to pronounce Mr. President of the Republic, as happened in the recent address to the country in the new year. The PSD is an institutionalist party and everything will continue to do to point out and promote the best ways for Portuguese justice. Therefore, in this effort to continue reforming the judicial map, we were at the forefront of defending the national interest. In other words, we will never affect the government of management the massive doses of obstinacy in the aprioristic refusal of any change and the invariable « not because» with which the parties that now make up the Left's alliance were noted in the area of justice when they were opposed. On the other hand, as the law of the current government itself confesses in its explanatory statement, we are faced with an amendment that praises the reform of the previous government and expressly acknowledges what it qualifies — and I quote — from "virtualities to the logic inherent in the new judicial design, in particular in the area of the installation of the specialized supply at the national level". In fact, this law maintains the fundamental logic and pillars of the reform carried out by the PSD Government / CDS. I would like to quote again the law of the current Government: « This legislative intervention essentially retains the design of the judicial division of the territory, the areas of specialization, the management model and its organic structure, thus not altering the defining pillar of the reform operated by Law No 62/2013 and only introducing the strictly indispensable adjustments to ensure the reciprocal proximity of justice and citizens». Thus, it fell on the land of forgetfulness of things that do not deserve memory, the much parliamentary rhetoric on the left and the extreme left, which swore the total and complete abrogation of the reform of the judicial map. Although late, in spite of everything, in good time, the parties on the left and the extreme left saw themselves in the position of having to support what they had rejected and even, let us remember, defamated, regardless of the tones of the political packaging with which they are now trying to envelop their new cause. The PSD, in view of this authentication of the options in the justice of the previous government, did not object to the alleged operationalization of the 20 courts which were degraded after serious studies which supported their inability and which, it is good to remember, came about through the application of public and transparent criteria, given, in fact, that it is a very important area of sovereignty where consensus must prevail. The PSD, repeats itself, did not oppose nor wanted to disrupt this intention. However, because we take Portugal and its justice seriously, we expected this measure to be thought of in a capable and dignified way. Unfortunately, none of that happened. There is no reopening of courts. We are witnessing an impassioned, indisputably hasty stagnation and following a political calendar, intensely electoralist and painfully captivating that makes any effort to read benignly displaced. [[PSD applause.]] What the management government is doing is reducing the creation of mere balconies without minimum conditions to be qualified as courts. And in the rush of attempting to represent what does not exist, it seems they have not resisted some of the most elementary care with the safeguard and integrity of the rule of law. Let us be clear: the PSD completely refuses the hypothesis of administrative officials of the authorities, necessarily hierarchically dependent on camera presidents, to be able to be in the courts to provide a service for which they have no specific preparation nor the conditions required to handle, directly or indirectly, judicial proceedings. It is stressed that the news coming to the public emphasizes that only at the last hour and thanks to a lot of pressure is that the government has abandoned its intention to provide these employees with a password to access the CITIUS computer system. In this way, we associate ourselves with the fears and anxieties expressed by the judicial magistrates, the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Union of Judicial Officials. This union also provided a precautionary measure in order to prevent the specialized functions of its associates from being performed by others without the minimum specific preparation required.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u227	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u228	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake is the integrity of justice. What is happening is that, in an unworthy way, the Government of Management intends to use this area of sovereignty to achieve purely electoralist ends. Courts cannot be transfigured in electoral propaganda outdoors. Justice cannot be disfigured as a slogan to capture the wishes of the most distracted. The reality is one: it is not serious to say that these balconies are courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u229	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u230	Finally, we call on the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice to listen to judicial operators, to listen to judges, judicial officials and, above all, to refrain from advertising tricks that can only abuse this area of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u231	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u232	We call on the Government to stop the unfortunate electoralist pantomime in which they are transforming an evolution of judicial map reform with many positive points and which does not deserve to be broken. [[PSD applause.]] This hygienic inversion of march we request here...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u233	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u234	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this hygienic inversion of movement that we are asking for here may constitute the first step in a union of purposes for justice, corresponding to the appeals of the President of the Republic, the hopes of the Portuguese and for which the PSD is fully available. Because the PSD takes justice seriously! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u235	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. The Bureau is waiting for an indication of how it wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u236	Mr President, I would like to reply first to two honourable Members. Members and then two others. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u237	All right. You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, the studies tell us that memory is always the object of reconstruction and construction... it is always so. There are no chemically pure memories, it is very true, but one thing is that, another thing is the trumping of memory, the manipulating selection of memory. And, in fact, what we have just heard right now is an exercise that has been tarnished by our collective memory in relation to what is the movement and the availability, let us say, of the justice system. Mr President, there is no reopening of the courts. But, sir, I will quote you 20 names. Ei -los: Sever do Vouga, Penela, Portel, Meda, Monchique, Furnaces de Algodres, Cadaval, Bomberral, Castelo de Vide, Mação, Boticas, Ferreira do Zêzere, Tabuaço, Resende, Armamar, Sabrosa, Murça, Paredes de Cora, Sines, Mesão Frio. Twenty names of councils whose courts have been closed by the PSD Government and the CDS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u239	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can clearly be here discussing the intensity of the powers that are, or must be, in all courts. We are fully prepared to do so, because we presented in this House a draft resolution that would lead to the reopening of the courts and to the courts that the PSD and CDS government had disgraded in proximity counters becoming generic. Mr. Deputies, the PSD voted against. Therefore, we may be discussing the intensity of the powers of the courts, but another thing would be what you wanted us to have done, which was to discuss the closure of the courts at last. My question is very simple, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim: when we proposed here that the reopened courts and the courts that had functioned as proximity sections should become generic competence, your vote against, in view of what you said, was a mistake and you would now like to vote differently, or not? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u240	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Vania Dias da Silva from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating the ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, and thank the PSD for bringing this important issue to plenary. We, as the PSD and as Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim said, have agreed in principle to this readjustment of the judicial map. We have done so since the first hour, and we have kept and lifted the adjustments that have been made, and that we, moreover, with greater or less detail, would also do so, stressing that the 20 courts to which Mr José Manuel Pureza referred recently were not actually reopened. They are proximity sections that have more valences, that approach the populations and that are good, but it is not a reopening of qua ta ta t ta, such as they existed before the reform. It's good to mention that and we need to be serious. It is good that it has been done, but it is not a reopening of the courts. Moreover, as early as December, we said that we had no doubt that this law would enter into force in January, but we manifested many doubts and many reservations about the operation and operation of these readjustments, especially because of the lack of judges and officials. And we were right. The news gives us reason and shows that, in addition to the services still being limited in any of these courts that are now partially reopening, we have a bigger and worse problem, which is the lack of employees. In May, and later, when this hypothesis came about, we told and showed the Minister of Justice that we had many reservations about this. In December, we asked a question about the legality of this decision and the Minister remained silent until yesterday, when, after the appearance of some judges and judicial officials, we attended the retreat of the Ministry of Justice saying that local officials will only have administrative functions and will not have access to confidential matters. The question remains, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, and that which this government has not answered - and that is what we would like to see answered and the government has to do with clarity - is to know what these administrative tasks are.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u242	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u243	If only the door is open for the employee to be able to go to the bathroom, as happened in Sines, we find it perfect; now, to enter the court's judicial office is that no, this is not possible, because any trial in the court's judicial office is confidential and they are not obliged to professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u244	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u245	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u246	In conclusion, Mr President — and I would like to thank you for your kindness — I would say that any process that gives access to those courts is confidential to anyone except judges and judicial officials, and that is why you cannot have access. If they tell us that they don't enter the judicial secretaries, we have nothing against it;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u247	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u248	...if they tell us they're entering the judiciary, it's illegal, it's forbidden and it's immoral. In addition — just to finish, Mr President, by apologizing to you — we would also like to know when the promised legal aid will move forward and when the next one will move forward, so that this situation will be resolved at once. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u249	To answer the questions put, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, who has 3 minutes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u250	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mr José Manuel Pureza and Mrs Vania Dias da Silva. I begin by giving reason to Mr José Manuel Pureza. In fact, there are no chemically pure memories and, if you would like me to tell you, Mr, with all sympathy, your intervention even showed that memory is not only chemically pure, as it is sometimes excessively selective. Mr President, I remember what the Members of the Left Bloc, the Members of the Communist Party, and now also some Members of the Socialist Party have said about the reform of the judicial map. They said the defects they put on him. All alleviations, all defects and, necessarily, the harmful consequences for justice, in particular, and for civilization, in general, were placed, were slaughtered in the reform we made of the judicial map. And the memory, in fact, is not chemically pure and is excessively selective because what we see is that the Government's proposal — which the Left Block has supported — supports more than 90 % of the essential options for reform of the former Government, the PSD Government and the CDS. Where was the memory then? Where were the promises of total revocation of the judicial map? Where were all the so-called electoralists at the time—Mrs. Members — what would that reform bring to justice the worst functioning of the last few decades? See the results published on the website of the Directorate-General for the Administration of Justice, see how this reform significantly improved the functioning of the Portuguese courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u251	Have you improved? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u252	That is why the Minister of Justice has been successful in agreeing to this reform. That is why, as you have already told the Minister of Justice, I say to Mr José Manuel Pureza: welcome to the reform of the judicial map! I'm glad the Left Block got off its way, but I'm glad the Left Block resolved to give us reason,... [[PSD applause.]] ...I am glad that the Left Block has now come to recognize, through its merits, all that we have said, and we have long said so. [[Protests by BE José Manuel Pureza.]] But, Mr President, your memory is also too selective, unfortunately, because, as Mrs Vania Dias da Silva said, you think it is worthy, you think it is curious to call, to qualify as 'courts' the balconies which, at the moment,... [[Protests by BE José Manuel Pureza.]] No, no, no! It is of the opinion that the Government which you support, to whom you support, with your vote and with your vehement support, both in 1. the Commission, either here in plenary, calls the “courts” to the counters where no trials are carried out,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u253	So why didn't you vote against it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u254	... where there are no cases, where there are no judicial magistrates, where there are no magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, where, simply and simply, citizens cannot obtain clarification about the situations in question? Oh, my God! [[Protests by BE José Manuel Pureza.]] You find, as Mrs Vania Dias da Silva said, that it is worthy of justice that, in Sines, the employee has put everyone on the street and closed the doors of the said counter...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u255	Twenty courts have been closed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u256	...to be able to go to the bathroom and, when it's over, have you opened the doors again and everybody's back in? Oh, my God! Ó Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u257	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u258	... with all loyalty, I expected more of you, but I only dare tell you: have more memory, please, because in this matter memory is a great helper. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u259	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, once again, lends himself to the role of testamentary to the justice policy of former Minister Paula Teixeira da Cruz. I should like to start by recalling, as I have recently welcomed, and I agree, the consensual and state policy that must be pursued in justice, which has used the term obstinacy and obstinacy is precisely the legacy of the former Minister of Justice. Moreover, I recall that the trade union associations, judges and magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, reported that they had even cut off all relations with the Minister of Justice. He also spoke of memory and I would like to remind him — and his parliamentary leader recalls, because he is here in the applause — that in the discussion of Law No 52/2008, which proposes the aggregation of comarcas and a new judicial map, the PSD said: "We demand guarantees that the courts would not be closed" and "the PSD opposes any closure of courts". This is memory and is exactly the opposite of what PSD has come to do! [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Montenegro.]] Mr President, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, I would like to point out that what we have always said was that it was possible to reform the judicial map, it was possible to proceed to the aggregation of comarcas and specialization, keeping all the courts open. That is exactly what has been done and, indeed, the honourable Member, in some incoherent way, has come to praise the coherence and sense of state of those who, eventually, may make the table of all that has been done in the previous legislation, preferring to proceed with the adjustments that were requested by the judicial operators. But I would point out two questions to you, Mr President, and ask you to make a special difference in the concrete answer to these two questions. The first has to do with the following: it has come to accuse the Government of electoralism, when the criticisms about this reform are that, possibly, should be made not now but in September. Now, in September, as I know, an act of electoral procedure is planned and, therefore, the honourable Member considers that it is electoralism to do so now but not in September. The second question concerns the following: I will not ask you what you think about the PS's autarchs and their pronouncements on the reactivation of courts, but, given that several presidents of the PSD chamber, and I quote that of Ferreira do Zêzere who came to greet this government, since the previous one...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u261	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u262	I shall conclude, Mr. President. As I was saying, given the position of several presidents of the PSD, and I quote that of Ferreira do Zezere, who came to greet this government, since the former would have courts of 1. a is 2. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you think that these chamber presidents are poor in spirit, easily manipulated by the demagogy of the government, or if you are, on the contrary, elected representatives of the people in which you preside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u263	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, go get the PSD position! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u265	It's against!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u266	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim here said: "Ah, this government has joined the reform of the previous government, it has not changed anything." So what are you complaining about? We don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u267	We complain of the gentlemen fooling the people! You're a liar, but you're not fooling us!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u268	Well, you have closed 20 courts, you have degraded 27 others, and you have come to say here: "Oh, no! These gentlemen, after all, what they open are balconies! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, for now, it must be said with all the letters: it is not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u269	It's true, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u270	Balkans was what you turned 27 courts! They have closed 20 courts—and they have even closed,... [[PCP applause.]] ... they didn't leave counters, they left tapumes, they closed — and they turned another 27 into balconies. This was the great criticism that we, the populations and the autoarchs, so many of the PSDs — not so many of the CDS, because they do not have them — did, criticising, with regard to the previous government, the closure and degradation of the courts. That was the great criticism! What's going to happen now is they're gonna reopen courts, because they're making judgments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u271	No, no! That's exceptional!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u272	The counters don't make judgments! You are spreading through the country the lie that there will be no trials, but soon they will be denied, because the people will realize that the courts are reopened, those that you have closed and therefore have no moral or political authority to criticize those who will reopen them, only have to congratulate themselves. That was the great criticism, and that is the big question that will be changed, whether you like it or not, or whether you are going to go through the country to tell the lie that there will be no trial in the courts that will reopen or apologize to the populations and the autarchs for what they did in the previous legislature, by putting the populations further away from justice, beyond the courts. And that is what hurts you, because the reform of the previous century, of the previous government, has been reversed in a positive sense, in a sense that the people and the authorities want.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u273	The honourable Member wanted it to be reversed, but it wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u274	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is going to lie to you! But we want to tell you something here, with all clarity: we also do not agree that the officials of the authorities are called to perform duties in the courts. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u275	Let that be very clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u276	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u277	It is that, unlike the position of the PSD and the CDS, our position is serious and with all seriousness we tell you that we disagree with that solution. We think the Judiciary Union was absolutely right about what you said recently...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u278	After all, the PCP wants balconies, but these aren't, they're others!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u279	...and, therefore, on our part, if this measure is taken, it will naturally count on our opposition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u280	To reply, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if any other merits could not be recognized on the subject which the PSD has decided to bring here, in this political statement, at least this last sentence by Mr António Filipe allows us to conclude that the Communist Party still has some serious resistance in defending what it has always defended,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u282	It's very kind of you! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u283	... because it is against the possibility of autarchical officials, who are hierarchically dependent on camera presidents, may deal directly or indirectly with judicial proceedings. I am very sorry that I have not heard a similar observation from the Left Block and now, above all, from the Socialist Party. We'll know what's going on. What is happening is that the Union of Judicial Officials has brought about a precautionary measure and the Minister and the Secretary of State, while saying that this reality is not going to happen, they present a reasoned public-interest resolution to ensure that the possibility of the precautionary measure has been successful. In other words, they deny reality but at the same time prevent the effect of precautionary providence, which was intended to prevent that reality. It doesn't make any sense, it's not serious! Let us be totally clear: the PSD does not oppose the reopening of the counters, as the government is currently seeking to operate on the ground. Don't object! We abstained when voting on the law, we put forward proposals and we have to be serious: that is not what is happening! They're not opening courts! Mr António Filipe, you are not opening courts! We're in front of an electoralist farce! It is an electoral farce that only plans future elections in December. I do not like to stir up the debate in Parliament, but Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, who is an illustrious jurist, and he proves it every day here, in particular in 1. The Commission — which you are a lawyer with recognized loans, does you really believe, is it convinced that the counters that are being operated are courts? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputies, do you consider them to be courts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u284	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u285	Mr President, do you accept, without delay, as a serious jurist who is calling the courts what the government is currently operating on the ground? Oh, my God! I am convinced, I am sure that you do not believe what you are saying and what your government is saying. And you don't believe it, because it's not true, sir! I should like to say that, rather than the one which you, unfortunately, are obliged to have yourself in the positions that you take here in the plenary. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u286	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with this speech by Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, we have concluded the first item on our agenda on political declarations. We move on to the second point, which is part of the joint debate on petitions Nos 490 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of the installation and operation of Uber in Portugal and review of the legal regime for the transport of non-emergency patients ( ANTRAL ) and 518 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — « We want Uber in Portugal » ( Francisco Maria Teixeira et al.). Mr António Eusebio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the petitioners for the initiatives they have put forward, because we are talking about a problem of public transport. And I want to tell you that we understand who defends petitions and their divergent views. As you know, we have accompanied this process with the greatest responsibility. in fact, the accelerated development of information technologies has made it possible to generate new forms of electronic commerce and dynamic interaction between economic operators and consumers. The sector of individual passenger transport services on an expensive basis did not go beyond this movement, and there was a considerable emergence and expansion of alternative mobility solutions, revealing a special capacity to adapt to the demand for transport services, particularly in urban areas. The reality of the application of new technologies in the context of the individual transport sector does not, however, correspond to the legal framework in force, and there is no particular regulation in Portuguese legislation for this specific type of service, reflecting the development of the passenger transport sector. on 22 December 2016, a bill has already been adopted in the Council of Ministers to regulate the transport of uncharacterized vehicles. So be it, ladies. Members, and given the obvious social relevance of the matter, we cannot defend the regulation of new alternatives without defining a clarifying legislative framework, as well as the definition of a proper and balanced discipline to its nature and to the fulfilment of various requirements. in this sense and in line with the concerns of the Socialist Party, it is not a matter of defending the interests of one or another sector but of ensuring the improvement of the quality of transport service to users. The scheme to be established should be sufficiently robust to protect the rights of users, but also to respect the autonomy of the private sphere of economic operators. Loads and obligations necessary and sufficient for the satisfaction of the collective interest in the safety of traffic and the basic rights of users should be defined. The interests of workers should be guarded, requiring compliance with the requirements which safeguard compliance with the Labour Code. Drivers should hold road training course certificates for drivers. in this activity only light passenger cars with a lot of not more than nine seats, including that of the driver, should be used. The suitability of operators and drivers should be measured, the age of vehicles should be limited to a certain number of years, periodic inspections should be ensured and vehicle identification should also be considered. Finally, the concern of the PS Parliamentary Group is to safeguard a decent transport service, a quality service,... [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u288	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u289	... a service which guarantees the safety of its users and which meets the labour laws of workers. Finally, with the application of these and, where appropriate, other requirements, the scenarios of disruption may be removed, which only benefit those who arrive and harm those who are, jeopardizing the public passenger transport service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u290	Mr Paulo Neves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this speech by complimenting the ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners for the presentation of petitions in plenary and greeting all of you for your civic initiatives, before this Assembly of the Republic, which always deserve the greater attention of the Social Democratic Party. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has a very clear position on this matter, which I will divide into a few — few — points. First, there's room for everyone. Be taxi drivers, be the new urban mobility platforms, there is no incompatibility. Second, the law is to comply, always! Third, the current legislation must indeed be updated. Today there are new mobility platforms and electronic applications that need to be regulated. The PSD is in favour of technological innovation, but it is also in favour of legality, obviously. Fourthly, the PSD advocates strict legislation that protects all those who use urban mobility, but also all those who work in urban mobility, including those who work through mobility platforms. The labour law must apply to all workers, protecting them and also dignifying them. Abuse and illegality involving unfair wages and illegal schedules are not acceptable. This principle applies both to taxi drivers and to drivers of vehicles hired through platforms. Fifthly, we are in favour of dialogue among all those involved in this issue — the associations of taxi drivers, the government, business representatives, consumers, etc. — all those involved should be called upon to pronounce themselves on all the legal matters involving these issues. Sixth, the Social Democratic Party naturally highlights, always, the most important, even social, the work of taxi drivers in Portugal. We defend that they must also take advantage of the immense possibilities that new technologies have and must also improve the quality of their services. The taxi drivers, we must not forget, are not only in places where modern mobility platforms work. The taxi drivers are everywhere, in the big, medium and small places in Portugal, are also in those places where platforms do not want, or are not justified, that they are, but the taxi drivers are there! That is why we should highlight them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u292	This is a gastronomic or musical program, not a political program!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, it is wrong to ideologicalize this issue, we must not do so. We must defend modernity, quality of service and competition, give better supply and access to consumers and dignify all those working in urban mobility. We do not identify exclusion from whoever it is; on the contrary, there is room for everyone and we can all win. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u294	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the two petitions that are now being discussed, in particular those who are here with us to attend the work. The first note that the Greens want to leave in this debate is that taxi transport is an activity which is subject to a rigorous licensing process, a set of legal procedures, which constitute the exercise of taxi transport. From the outset, the law requires a target issued by the Institute for Mobility and Transport (IMT ) and still requires the licensing of vehicles, which is made by the respective municipal chamber where the activity of taxi transport is intended. But it requires more, from the type of car, that it must, in fact, be equipped with a taximeter, to the lot of the car. In addition, the vehicle must be driven by a driver duly qualified with professional capacity certificate. The very characteristics of the car for taxi transport are due and detailedly planned. Even the price charged by the taxi transport service is determined by legal diploma. We thus have a regulated activity up to the details. And, if this activity is regulated, other operators may not carry out the same activity exempt from all of these legal requirements, whether the vehicles, whether the drivers or the price of the service provided. And indeed, what we have today is, on the one hand, a taxi transport activity to which the State imposes — and in our view — an extended set of legal requirements and requirements and, on the other hand, an activity which, while developing a similar service, is literally freed from any licensing process and any other legal requirements. In other words, we have a properly regulated and regulated activity in accordance with the law and another which, although doing a similar service, is beyond the scope of the law. In this regard, I recall the words of the then President of the Institute for Mobility and Transport, when, about two years ago, in a parliamentary committee, he said that the services provided through Uber constituted a violation of specific transport legislation. In addition, last year, this House adopted, without a vote against, a proposal that reinforced measures to combat illegal passenger transport activity. This is, for us, the central point of this debate. It is necessary to comply with the laws, because that is why laws exist and, if they exist, they are for everyone, naturally and democratically. It is therefore important, on the one hand, to respond to the needs of affirming the primacy of the law, to prevent illegalities from continuing and installing themselves as if they were something normal and, on the other, to address a public transport problem which the previous government, the PSD/CDS government, simply ignored. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u296	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners, in the person of Mr President of ANTRAL (National Association of Road Transporters in Light Cars), as well as the representatives of the Portuguese Federation of Taxi ( FPT ) who are present, and by saying that these two petitions which appear or may seem contradictory in reality are not, because they request the same service which is provided in two different ways. Therefore, on this service, I think that it is up to the users to make the choice, it is not up to the politicians, nor the political powers, to make that choice. There are other types of responsibilities to us. It is up to us to ensure a climate of competition, a legal regime compatible with the reality of the two models and, of course, not asking each other for everything, as happens with taxis, and not asking for anything else. This is the responsibility, but it is good to say that this was not the first answer of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u298	The Socialist Party, faced with a new problem, had to find new answers, opted for the usual model, a package of measures ( EUR 17 million, three measures ), and quickly realized that, between trying to win votes and solving a problem, there was no solution. Therefore, we are waiting for the CFP, BE, the Greens Ecological Party and the Socialist Party to assume their responsibility and resolve this problem. That is, there is a new challenge, there is a reality that is important to protect and there is an answer to give. What we cannot have is the best of both worlds: on the one hand, we all praise the Web Summit. Uber was only the star of the Web Summit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u299	Oh, so it's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u300	A country like ours, which has no commodities, which has no raw materials, can only survive if it bets on innovation, imagination and entrepreneurship. It is in the Government's Programme that bet and we agree with it, but it has to be framed, taking into account the disruption that causes in existing business and business models. There is a relevant public service, as has already been said, provided by taxis, whose owners are required a set of conditions that must be respected and, therefore, mechanisms need to be found for this sector to be modernised. The IMT study itself says that 50 % of taxis are not linked to any electronic platform, but those that are significantly increasing their incomes, their savings and the improvement of their service. It is necessary to create conditions to help this sector modernise itself. That is why the CDS says: 'yes' to freedom of installation; 'yes' to entrepreneurship and new business models; 'yes' to private initiative; 'yes' to traditional business protection; 'yes' to the provision of public service, creating conditions for them to be able... And here there are several measures... I do not know the government's proposal, we are waiting for the government to assume its responsibilities and bring here a proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u301	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u302	...to tell the taxi sector that benefits from the public service it provides, which is relevant, what conditions it will have for the training of its drivers, what conditions of mobility it will have, because we are talking about mobility in urban centres, which is also important to protect. Now, it does not seem to me that, in the face of a difficulty, in the face of a new model, which raises a new challenge, the solution is a meaningless ideological discussion or bury the head in the sand.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u303	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u304	The sector — and with this ending — really needs an answer. on our part, if the Government is in the balance between the two sectors, by maintaining freedom of initiative, by maintaining and protecting innovation and, at the same time, maintaining the economic viability of the traditional taxi sector, we are, of course, available to discuss, and here we will be to make our contribution. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u305	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes the representatives of the taxi sector here present and the thousands of citizens who have addressed the Assembly of the Republic through these petitions that are now under discussion, a debate that must be serious, because it is about the laws of this country and how we have complied with them and we have done them. We can even claim that, apparently, the concern and motivation common to all or almost all of these citizens of both petitions is at a better transport service, with more quality, comfort and accessibility, and this is an objective for which we continue to work, but certainly no one will defend that at the level of this objective a statute of impunity and privilege for the economic power of multinationals who act as if they were above the law. Once again we stress that this is not a matter of technology, nor of modernity, it is a matter of legality. The law must be the same for all and no one can be above the law! It is unacceptable for the country to be confronted with the situation that is put in place: the law applies only to some and there are those who do not have to comply or, then, a law is made, as if it were a fact, according to multinationals. But what is happening today in the field is a shocking situation, of total impunity, in the face of the passivity of the competent authorities. The CFP is proud to have actively and constructively contributed to the defence of legality in the sector by proposing measures, which have been adopted in this House — without a vote against — in Law No 35 / 2016, but which are not being complied with. There have already been serious problems, such as what happened last December 23rd, next to the railway station of Campanhã, in Porto. Something's very wrong, sirs. Members, when the authorities witness illegality and monitor those who denounce it. That is why we have just questioned the Government, through the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, about this situation and it is important that the matter be fully clarified. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the law is to comply and no one can be above the law! The CFP cannot accept, this House cannot accept, that the liquidation of a sector such as taxi, which consists mainly of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized domestic industrial and national cooperatives, to impose the hegemonic and monopoly presence of a foreign multinational which, according to the press, paid in Portugal — I repeat, in Portugal — in taxes less than the company of Ginjinha, Rossio! A company that has drivers to earn 1, 41 € an hour before taxes, which imposes the rates you want and puts the cars wherever you want. The taxi sector is framed, regulated and controlled every day, it cannot afford to present global losses of $2200 million in just nine months. The taxi sector does not resort to offshore or tax addresses in the Netherlands. It has been penalised for years and years of special payment on account, that this year will finally be reduced, with a view to its elimination, by proposal from the CFP approved here. We must support the modernisation of the sector, investment, innovation and the development of transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u307	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u308	I'm done now, Mr. President. There are many problems and needs to solve and here we are and we will be going to continue this work, but it is not with unfair and illegal competition or with the privilege of multinationals. For this they don't count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u309	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u310	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, today the Assembly of the Republic is called upon to pronounce on two opposing requests for signal and to address the same question: the activity of Uber in Portugal. This is a normal exercise in democracy and therefore I cannot fail to greet the representatives of each of the petitions and to welcome their initiative, because, regardless of what we may have on each of them, they both have the merit of having a reflection on the subject. Whatever the reasons for one or another there is an unforgettable reality: Uber has been active in the country for almost three years outside any legal framework. This simple, but significant, fact cannot but justify a first question: how was it possible that this illegal activity throughout this time was carried out, violating express decisions of the courts, as was the case with the Lisbon District Court judgment of 24 April 2015? contrary to what some repeat, as if the common sense were indisputable, justice in this case was not slow, yes, dead letter, and who should enforce it — authorities, ACT (Working Conditions Authority), police, government — did not do so. According to Uber, in November 2016 there were about 2500 vehicles to operate in Portugal. All illegal, but there are. It is true that the appearance of Uber cannot be disconnected from the existence of a legal void and also from the fact that the issue of taxi operating licences, especially in Lisbon and Porto, has been blocked for many years. This was the result of the emergence of a parallel market for taxi licences which severely distorted competition, encouraged business concentration and aggravated precarious work for those working in this market. It was in this context that Uber was enrolled, offering light vehicle call services for individual passenger transport, through access to a real-time digital platform, with satisfactory results for the passenger, especially at the level of greater transparency in fares and perception of routes. But staying around here would be just looking at the tree and not seeing the forest. Today it has already been seen that this transport service is not only an economic fraud, failing various legal standards, both at the level of taxation and at the level of labour law, as will never be the announced Elodorate where the myrific values of the order of 1400 € / month would be reached. Even with more than one year's delay, in view of the moment these petitions have entered the Assembly of the Republic, it may be beneficial to return to this debate now. Uber has represented the reality of modern slavery for those working in it, confirmed by the very low incomes of work, that in Portugal, as in several countries of Europe, do not reach the minimum wage, even above the exchange of typical working hours of the pre-industrial era, which reach the 70 hours per week.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u311	It has already exceeded the time you had, Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u312	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that these are examples that you cannot stop questioning us and calling for legislation in favour of an individual passenger public transport service that eliminates abusive practices of abutre companies, such as Uber, and promotes transparency in fares and itineraries, equity in access to professional motorist activity in light cars, respect for the rights of those who work and the modernization of the taxi transport service or equivalent vehicles. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u313	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, completed the examination of petitions Nos 490 and 518 / XII ( 4. ( a ), we turn to the last item on our agenda, which is the assessment of petition No 81 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request the Assembly of the Republic to take legislative measures to ensure the inclusion of vegetarian options in Portuguese schools, universities and hospitals ( Nuno Micael Alvim Coelho da Silva et al.). For an intervention, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today to discuss this petition, which has, in total, 12,467 subscribers, whom I would like to leave, although I have not seen the first subscriber here, my compliments, taking into account the fact that his number is so substantial. With regard to this petition, which wants the Assembly of the Republic to implement vegetarian options in all the canteens and hospitals—and all the canteens'schools' refer to the canteens of basic education, secondary education and university— we welcome some considerations in this regard. We have once again demonstrated the position of the PSD, which has already been manifested on other occasions, including when discussing this topic in plenary, still a short time ago: the PSD is in favour of the freedom of choice of options, and it is important that this remain as an idea-matrix. We are in favour of the freedom of choice of options, but clearly distinguishing these situations: we cannot treat in the same way the canteens of basic and secondary education, where we have children and other minors, or hospitals, where we have patients, and the canteens of universities, where we have adults, from the nutritional choice, because the options have to be conscious, have to take into account a balanced diet, from the health and nutrition point of view. Therefore, when it comes to minors or patients who do not yet have the freedom to choose themselves, this option cannot be given to them without being carefully accompanied, in particular, by nutritionists and even by the family itself, and this option already exists in general in the canteens. According to information that we have been collecting, it is sufficient to request the services of the restaurants to provide a vegetarian meal, through education officers, in the case of minors, of course, to provide this service to them, taking into account always this plurality and this care, which is the well-being, which is what moves us, because above all this is the primary concern of the PSD regarding this theme. Even today, Mrs. Bastonária of the Order of Nutritionists, in statements to a radio, to be possible the implementation of this option, drew attention to the need for nutritional control and to be seen on a case-by-case basis, because, as we all know, in some situations, vegetarian food, if not properly followed and properly maintained nutritionally, can lead to serious imbalances and even problems in the feeding of children, especially because animal protein is also very necessary for a balanced diet. Of course, we are always for a conscious, just and balanced option and above all in thought. As for the rest, we will take our position in due course. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u315	For an intervention, Mrs Palmira Maciel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dear Petitioners: I begin by welcoming the Portuguese Vegetarian Association and all petitioners for the exercise of a fundamental right of participation of civil society, through which everyone can express their concerns and, in this particular case, the inclusion of vegetarian options in Portuguese schools, universities and hospitals. This is a relevant issue that deserves our full attention, based on the quality of food and the opportunity for choices that are accessible to the whole community. It is widely consensual that the quality of food is a decisive factor in modern, equal and just societies, allowing all citizens access to balanced, varied and satisfactory meals, from the point of view of food security and nutrition. It has therefore been one of the political priorities of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party the appreciation, debate and regulation of topics related to healthy food, local supplies and the preservation of quality standards in public canteens. We all know that the growth in the number of Portuguese people currently adopting the vegetarian regime, in a permanent, temporary or sporadic way, has grown exponentially, which is why it is our obligation to follow this evolution and its trends in order to find viable and adequate responses to the new needs of citizens. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group reinforces the position taken during the joint discussion of the projects of lein.o 111 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 268 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 265 / XIII ( 1. ( a). Being a reality, the growth of food intake predominantly based on vegetables, which we cannot ignore, and considering that Portugal has good conditions for promoting vegetarian diets, it should be emphasized that the new food dynamics maintain our gastronomic tradition, which includes in the various meals the use of products of plant origin. It should be noted that the inclusion of the plant option in all public canteens, as intended to be implemented, has organizational implications, in particular in meeting the quality criteria required based on scientific and nutritional knowledge, and requires adequate training of professionals in the sector. We must also combine these legislative responses to the issue of combating food waste, which is transversal throughout the food chain, involving, of course, the public canteen sector. in this particular, schools and universities are a means of excellence in the awareness and promotion of good food practices and in the fight against waste. Finally, it should be noted that there are several bills in the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea with objects similar to those of the petition under consideration. This will therefore be a good opportunity to debate and improve the proposals presented, taking into account the quality of life, sustainability and healthy eating habits. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u317	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners for bringing us the debate, once again, the theme of vegetarian diet and also by saying that the CDS accompanies the concerns with the need for a greater variety of options in public canteens, of which the vegetarian element can and should be an option. We also agree that this is a freedom of choice for each individual and that it must be within the reach of all, as mentioned in the petition. Freedom of choice is, in fact, a fundamental right which the CDS argues must exist not only in food but also in health and education, for example. But in order for this freedom to be effectively exercised with all security, all necessary human and structural means, which have already been mentioned here and which have also been considered in the alert that the Order of Nutritionists issued in an opinion to the Assembly of the Republic concerning the bills already discussed in plenary last June on this subject. We therefore note that in the hearing the petitioners considered that this path should be gradual and based on a case-by-case assessment of the needs of each canteen. I don't want to end up without leaving three notes, which I think are relevant, of the opinion that the Nutritionist Order has issued. First note, a healthy diet should be complete and varied, non-restrictive and should include the various food wheel groups. According to note, the Mediterranean diet, which was recognized in 2013 by UNESCO as an immaterial heritage of humanity, has scientifically recognized benefits, is an inheritance that must be preserved and promoted and is the best option for the overwhelming majority of Portuguese—I am not the one who says it, it is the Directorate-General of Health, it is UNESCO and it is reflected in the opinion of the Order of Nutritionists. Third note, the Order is perennial in stating that it is wrong to try to confuse vegetarian-based food, such as the Mediterranean diet, with an exclusively vegetarian diet. in this sense, this difference is substantial. Vegetarian food is today a voluntary option for many Portuguese and therefore the Directorate-General of Health has produced a guide for healthy vegetarian food. We have already had the opportunity to refer to our position on this matter in June, during the discussion here of the bills concerning it. This guide was issued not by the Directorate-General of Health to understand that vegetarian diet is the most healthy option but to ensure that those who take this option make it the most healthy way, which is a substantial difference. This is also the opinion conveyed by the Order of Nutritionists.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u319	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u320	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we are only following the possibility, the need and the right of the Portuguese to make an option, a free choice, but there is a huge set of needs that must be guarded. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u321	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the more than 12,000 petitioners and valuing the use of this important instrument of political participation at the disposal of citizens. The subject which is now being discussed by this petition is already being addressed by Parliament, and a legislative process on the subject is under way. On this subject, the CFP highlights what it has already highlighted during the discussion of the proposed laws. Public canteens, especially schoolchildren, have been an important element in enabling many children to make at least one decent meal a day. However, due to the amendments that prevent many institutions from managing their own canteens, many of them are now delivered to large companies, chosen by national competitions. All this framework and the need for companies to compete with each other in order to win the competitions take room for decisions on the ingredients, quality of the products and even the possibility of buying products of proximity. There are many cases, particularly in schools, where a breakdown in the quality and quantity of meals was noted, with the passage of the canteens to companies. These mechanisms also prevent canteens from consuming local production products, whose quality is closely linked to family farming, capable of producing quality and diversity. Food habits and food quality have a close relationship with human health. Increasingly aware of this relationship, many Portuguese choose diets with which they seek to improve their health and quality of life. We do not perform this or that diet apology, until some diets, by restricting the use of some foods, seek variety and nutritional balance through the introduction of exotic products. Concerns about the sustainability of human food should be taken into account in this reality. There are many arguments against or in favour of this or that diet. In food matters, as in many others, more than the consumption of certain foods, are the quantities consumed that are truly harmful. Diversity and choice are the answer to concerns with a healthy diet. The canteens, because of their importance in providing meals, should provide an irreprehensible quality of food, but given that they usually operate for a generalised universe of citizens, should also offer a variety of food that meets the wishes and food options of their users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u323	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party is from greeting thousands of petitioners who have delivered a collective petition in the Assembly of the Republic, launched by the Portuguese Vegetarian Association, which calls for the inclusion of vegetarian options in schools, universities and Portuguese hospitals. On this point, the Greens have already taken the initiative, as is known by the honourable Members and by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. however, I would like to take a first consideration to say that our priority of priorities has been to guarantee the right to food — and this should be even the high priority of the Assembly of the Republic. We cannot neglect the fact that poverty is related to the right to food and food quality of Portuguese families, particularly children and young people. It is that the few possibilities of buying food lead to certain families being forced to buy the cheapest food without nutritional qualities. In fact, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take this matter into great consideration and not run away from it as if it did not exist. Attacking poverty is therefore a priority at the highest levels. It is clear that the Greens also have a great deal of concern about people's right to food, especially the choice of food diet, which they want to make. in this sense, The Greens already presented in this legislature the bill no. 268 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), which provides for the integration of the option of the vegetarian plant in the public canteens. Moreover, this bill is being discussed with others from other parliamentary groups, in the field of expertise, in the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, where several entities have already been heard and there are several opinions on the subject. I believe that this petition may be a reason or an engine for this legislative process to be accelerated and it can be concluded. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that the Greens proposed, in the State Budget for 2016, the integration of lactose-free milk into the School Milk Programme. As I have mentioned several times here, in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, several parents and education officers, after the adoption of this rule, addressed the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party (and I presume also to other parliamentary groups) asking that we also make a proposal next time for the option of integrating vegetable milk or vegetable beverages into the School Milk Programme. However, we have considered this proposal perfectly legitimate, and we have done it now in the budget of the State, but unfortunately it has not obtained the agreement of the majority of the parliamentary groups and has therefore not been approved. This does not, of course, mean that the Greens give up their proposal, because we will certainly return to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u325	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the petitioners, today present here, and to stress, after the interventions already made, a strong consensus so that the requirement that this petition today presents to us may have correspondence and that the legislative process already begun, today are under discussion, in the field of specialty, the bills presented by the Left Block by the Greens and the PAN, which aim to achieve, in practice, this availability of the vegetarian diet in the public school canteens—and the bills under discussion finish their legislative course, return to the Plenary for a comprehensive final vote and may be approved. That is our expectation, and it is for a short time. The social role of public canteens has already been emphasized, the place where so many children in this country make their only full meal. And what we are dealing with today is not whether the best option, from a dietary point of view, will be the vegetarian element or the traditional element. As the Directorate-General of Health points out, in its national strategy for a healthy diet, any of these options can be healthy and none is because they are vegetarian. They are whether or not they are whether or not they have the presence of the various nutritional components that are supposed to be present at a healthy meal, whether it is vegetarian or not. Therefore, we believe that this scenario put in place by Mrs Emília's PSD Member should be avoided so that students who want access to a vegetarian facility "give a little way there" in the canteen, please ask someone to adapt to the diet. It's just that a steak with fried potatoes, if we take the steak, it doesn't turn out to be a vegetarian dish. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the plants are made in accordance with the best nutritional principles, so that they are as healthy as the other options that should be present in the canteens. So, what we will have, if these projects under discussion in the field of specialty could have their route completed here, in the plenary, are more inclusive canteens, more respectful of the right of choice and more healthy, are better canteens in public schools. We hope, then, that this petition may be the impulse that leads this process to reach its borders and that this will soon be a reality in the Portuguese school canteens. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-05.u327	Mrs. Members, we conclude the assessment of petition No 81 / XIII ( 1. (a) and, with this, our work today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on a number of agenda items. First, we will generally discuss Bill No 41 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to create the public service for electronic notifications associated with the single digital address. The general debate of Bill No 42 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Change the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques. Thirdly, we will jointly, in general, appreciate the projects of lein.o 355 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Criminal liability regime for behaviors likely to affect the truth, loyalty and correctness of the competition and its result in sporting activity ( PSD ), 348 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August by strengthening the legal framework for the handling of sports competitions ( PS ) and 365 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 30 / 2015 of 22 April 2015, which establishes legislative measures aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of the fight against sport corruption ( CDS-PP ). Fourthly, draft resolutions 546 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Promotes improved access to Portuguese teaching courses abroad and promotes its pedagogical quality ( PS ), 388 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Reduce the number of students per class in the teaching courses of Portuguese abroad ( EPE ) ( BE ), 587 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Development of the Portuguese teaching network abroad ( PSD ) and 598 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government bet on an active, effective and comprehensive policy for the defence and projection of the Portuguese language ( CDS-PP ) together, and generally with the projects of lein. 267 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revokes the teaching tip of Portuguese abroad ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August ) ( PCP ) and 271 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Revokes the teaching tip of Portuguese abroad and establishes the free education manuals in the EPE courses ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August) ( BE). Fifthly, draft resolutions 427 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to update the special resettlement programme ( PER ) ( BE ), 597 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an evaluation of the special resettlement programme ( PER ) and consider the introduction of amendments to the scheme in order to update it in order to adapt it to the needs of the current family aggregates by promoting the rehabilitation of buildings ( CDS-PP ), 599 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the national census of all situations in Portugal which are in need of reallocation, in conjunction with local authorities, and develop a new resettlement programme ( PSD ) and 600 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures for the suspension of demolition and disposals without alternative, updating housing needs and ensuring the right to adequate housing and social protection ( PCP ). Finally, the motions for resolutions 26 / XIII ( 2 ) are scheduled without time for discussion. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the British Virgin Islands on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 5 October 2010, 27 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Turkish and Caicos Islands on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 21 December 2010, 28 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Republic Portuguese and Guernsey States on Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 9 July 2010, 30 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the amendment to Article 8. the and other amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Crime of Aggression adopted at the Review Conference in Kampala on 31 May 2010, 31 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the amendment to Article 124. the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal, adopted in The Hague, on 26 November 2015, 33 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and Belize on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 22 October 2010, and 34 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Federation of St.Cristovão and Neves on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in Bassetere, on 29 July 2010. There will also be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. I'm still informing you. Members who will then join the Cavaquinhos Group of the Cultural and Recreational Association Passilgueirense will sing the Janeiras to the ladies and gentlemen. Members and the Bureau, after what we will have a Port of Honor, which I offer to the Heads of Diplomatic Mission in the framework of the 2017 Diplomatic Seminar, where the Heads of Mission will be present, Mr. Ambassadors of Portugal in the various countries and international organizations. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 34 minutes.]]
