ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so we're going to start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Today, on the agenda, we have two points of debate, the first of which, and fundamental, is that of Question No 10 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On general policy, focusing on the conditions for the development of national production ( CFP ) ; the second point, without time for discussion, concerns resolution No 46 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the EFTA States SADC, of the other part, signed in Kasane on 16 June 2016. at the end of the work, there will be regular votes. Before we begin the first point, I ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to give us an account of the file, which is vast. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the proposals of lein. 83 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the status of the company recovery mediator, which falls to 6. the Commission, 84 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the extrajudicial scheme for the recovery of undertakings, which also falls to 6. the Commission, 85 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime for the conversion of credits to capital, which also falls to 6. the Commission, 86 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal from national territory, and transposes Directives 2014 / 36 / EU, 2014 / 66 / EU and 2016 / 801, of 11 May, which falls to 1. the Commission, 87 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the tax procedure and procedure, which falls to 5. the Commission, 88 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Partially transposes Directive 2014 / 91 / EU as regards the functions of depositaries, remuneration policies and sanctions, which falls to 5. the Commission, and 89 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to regulate the access and exercise of the activity of credit intermediary and the provision of consulting services in respect of credit contracts by transposing Directive 2014/17 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit contracts to consumers for housing buildings, which also falls to 5. the Commission ; and motion for a resolution No 52 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Terrorism, which opened its signature in Riga on 22 October 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u3	Let us, then, initiate interpellation No 10/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — On general policy, focusing on the conditions for the development of national production ( CFP ). For an intervention to open the debate, Mr Francisco Lopes has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: A country that does not produce is subject to dependence, depreciation and definition. The response to national needs must be assured by the country itself, not isolated, relating to others, but having a strong capacity for production and support. That is what has been deeply affected. Decades of right-wing policy, the PECs and the troika attack pact, signed by PS, PSD and CDS, and implemented by the PSD/CDS government, with the enthusiasm and all the brutality that is known, led Portugal to dependence, injustice and delay. The problems have already existed but have become clearly greater. With the struggle of workers, it was possible to end the PSD/CDS government, which day by day made cuts in wages and pensions, the destruction of social and labor rights, the attack on public services, the concentration of wealth and social injustice to its practice. It was possible, at this new stage of national political life, to advance measures to defend, replace and conquer rights, which, contrary to what was proclaimed by the PSD and the CDS, contributed and contributed to growth and economic development. It is thus proven that strengthening rights and improving living conditions are the structural element of development. A path which also includes many other aspects, of course the important role of exports. We value the steps given but, as always, we analyze reality with objectivity. What's the situation? How far did the advances go? What is the dimension of the problems that need to be solved? The liquidation of the productive sectors and national production was profound. Between 2002 and 2015, the average GDP rate shows a clear stagnation. In 2016, the country was still below what it produced in 2005 — more than a decade lost. With the privatisations, national decision-making centres were transferred abroad and essential instruments for development were settled. Cimpor and Portugal Telecom are a visible example of this. Qualified structures and teams were disarticulated and destroyed and their workers led to unemployment or emigration. The devaluation of public investment and the degradation of state equipment, infrastructure, services and social functions have reached worrying levels, with consequences that persist and may even worsen over time. Unemployment has reached record values and remains structurally very high, general precariousness has increased the demographic backwardness, aggravated by the emigration of hundreds of thousands of workers. The wages have been reduced, the rights reduced, as well as pensions and social support and 2, 6 million Portuguese are below the poverty threshold. Social injustice is horrifying, digging the gap between the poorest and the richest, reducing the weight of wages in favour of capital in the wealth produced. These are just a few elements of the many that we could anticipate and which characterize some of the main problems Portugal is facing. It is true that, in recent developments, there are positive elements in terms of rights, wages, pensions and social support, but they are insufficient. It is necessary to go further, for reasons of social justice and for the contribution of these measures to economic development. And if, in this recent evolution, the improvement of living conditions and the strengthening of the internal market are structural factors, already elements such as the cost of credit, the prices of oil and the economic evolution of some countries with which Portugal relates are conjunctural factors. The same can be said of the growth of tourism, which has a solid basis on the natural and cultural conditions of our country, but whose flows are also influenced by the environment. In the meantime, there is a consistent option to meet national needs, replacing imports by national production. There are still constraints that remove the development of the country, such as submission to the euro, the public debt that annually consumes about EUR 8 billion in interest only, the monopolistic domain of the bank and other strategic sectors, the high dividends coming out of the country and the flight of the large capital to the payment of taxes by using tax havens. As important as economic growth is in this or that quarter, in this or that period, and it is, this cannot be used to conceal the need for measures that ensure solid and consistent development. There may be periods of economic growth, as in the past, but only with the release of the country of existing constraints can it be possible to ensure the development and improvement of living conditions to which the Portuguese people are entitled.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u6	That is the meaning we give to this discussion, that is the sense of patriotic and left-wing politics that the CFP defends and underlines. We believe that it is necessary to free the country from submission to the euro — a limiting mechanism for production and development, with its over-value and blackmail instruments associated with it — as well as the European Union's taxes and policies. We believe that it is necessary to renegotiate the debt, within its time limits, interest and amounts, freeing the necessary resources, in particular, for public investment. The guarantee of the public control of the bank and the basic strategic sectors of the economy is another need, which we associate, as indispensable, a strong State intervention against abuses of dominant position and economic dependence by monopolistic groups on small and medium-sized enterprises. It is necessary to defend and promote national production and productive sectors as a priority to public investment, with a policy of substitution of imports by national production, linked to the promotion of exports. The proper use of existing resources in the present and future is a necessity: from mineral resources to the potential of the sea, advancing without the temptation of the devalued sale but in a conception of productive row and with the necessary environmental protection. It is necessary to adopt a programme aimed at food sovereignty in order to respond to essential aspects of national needs. And the consideration of agriculture, livestock, forest and fisheries as strategic production is also a necessity. The reindustrialization of the country, with the development of traditional sectors and new sectors, in a framework of accelerated change of needs and productive processes, is placed there urgently. The development of a strategy by pursuing the objective of energy sovereignty is essential, in particular with the use of potentials in renewable energy, public control and the enhancement of energy intensity reduction solutions. The consideration and use of services sectors cannot be excluded, on the contrary, it must be valued, including tourism, in a determined but independent manner. The appreciation of education, culture, science and technology is a necessity, with scientific and technological development, with the elevation of the productive profile and, all this, not as a pretext for new attacks on labour rights and social security, but as a vision of development, a vision of the future. The value of labour and workers as an object and condition of development is to stress, with the enlargement of the internal market, full employment, the increase in wages, starting with the establishment of the national minimum wage in 600 €, the respect for working hours and their reduction for 35 hours, the fight against precariousness, respect for labour rights, including collective bargaining, the valorisation of pension pensions and social support, and all this associated with the diversification of sources of social security financing, in particular by adding the contribution of enterprises to the basis of net added value. This is because economics and economic development are stimulated by rights and social conditions and should aim at this satisfaction. [[PCP applause.]] But in this strategy we have included and stressed the need to combat corruption, defend the democratic regime and comply with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. And, as for the public accounts, we demand its rigour, which goes through an effective policy of economic development, producing more to generate more wealth, producing more to owe less, assuming effective taxation of the great capital and the reversal of so-called public-private partnerships and other support to monopoly groups. This is how we advocate a sovereign development strategy for the present and the future, which means the use and protection of resources, initiative, planning and disposal of waste and not an erratic route between avulsive programs, false expectations, frustrations and setbacks. We defend production, full employment, rights, development, sovereignty, political, economic, social and cultural democracy, a more just society. These are the requirements that arise in the days in which we live, in Europe we have, in today's world. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u7	For the opening of the debate too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal has a good time. National production is growing 2, 8 % — the largest growth since 2007. Exports have increased by 15 % — the largest growth since 2011. There are more than 150 000 people employed in Portugal than a year ago, which is also the biggest job growth since the beginning of the century. These results were achieved by Portuguese companies and workers, who believed and invested, who showed confidence in the direction that the Portuguese economy was following and created new jobs and new businesses. These results were achieved by a responsible policy that, while promoting better conditions for investment, with measures such as PLAN 100, which we took at the beginning of the government, or as the investment accelerator PT2020 or the financing of the Capitalisation Programme, replenished incomes and increased workers'wages, contributing to enhancing the confidence not only of consumers but also of businesses. while promoting better conditions for investment and return, this policy has achieved what many have said here is impossible, i.e. reducing the public deficit to the lowest level of the last 43 years and improving the external balance by 900 million, achieving the best balance of the last 22 years in Portuguese external accounts. The acceleration of growth in the last three quarters has placed quarterly growth at the highest level since 2007. This acceleration of growth does not result from the maintenance of a trajectory from the past, it is first that Portuguese companies have been able to reverse the slowdown path that occurred during 2015, once again accelerating the growth of investment, employment and exports. One year ago the Portuguese economy was growing 0, 9 %, today it is growing three times more, i.e. 2, 8 %. We caught a deceleration train; today the train is accelerating and growing 2, 8 %. This acceleration cannot be explained either by improving the European environment for a simple reason: there has been no change in the European economy. The euro area economy has grown 1, 7% a year ago, and today it grows exactly the same 1, 7% a year ago. The Portuguese economy grew 0, 9 %, today grows three times more, is growing 2, 8 %. There was an acceleration of the Portuguese economy which did not follow an acceleration of the European economy; the European economy maintained the same growth. It was not the average European growth that changed, it was Portugal that went from clearly below the average to clearly above the average of our European partners. Today's growth is sustainable and solidly based. It is sustainable because it happened in parallel with the strengthening and balance of public accounts and the external balance, it is solid because it is based both on domestic demand — on the reactivation of consumption and investment — and on the growth of exports in a diversified set of sectors. I highlight the growth of exports of metallic products, which, one year ago, were falling 12 % and are now growing 22 %; I stress the exports of the chemical sector, which grew in the first quarter of this year 16 %, when one year grew 6 %; I stress the exports of food, agricultural and agro-industry products, which were falling 2, 9 % once a year and are now growing 18 %. The growth of the Portuguese economy, the growth of Portuguese exports is happening in a diverse set of sectors and is happening because it changed the reality of these sectors, from a reality in which exports were falling to a reality in which they are growing at a very fast pace. Tourism, which was already growing, increased from 9, 7 % to a growth of 12, 4 %. Exports from the tourism sector are growing slightly below average today, but they continue to have good growth, the average is that it has risen a lot and rose because exports from sectors such as automobiles, food products, chemicals or metallic products are now growing at two digits. The Portuguese economy is growing in exports, investment and employment in a diversified set of sectors, which is important to note. [[P.S.'s applause.]] this year and a half, the government worked to relaunch growth, with the replacement of income, with the mobilization of structural funds, with the mobilization of financial instruments and the strengthening of capitalisation and investment incentives. The Government has also placed a strong emphasis on promoting future growth. We looked at the structural problems of the Portuguese economy and worked together to find solutions to problems such as delays in qualifications, the need for administrative simplification or excessive indebtedness of companies. The Capitalisation Programme presents a set of important reforms to enable companies to restructure faster and more flexibly, thereby saving jobs, saving value and allowing creditors to recover more of their credits. It is a structural reform, and it is an extremely important structural reform. The indebtedness of private companies today has an effect of delaying investment. The Capitalisation Programme also allows to align tax incentives in order to encourage more investment financed by own funds, without tax benefit to those who finance themselves solely by other capitals. It also allows funding to be extended to businesses that want to grow. Together with this programme, which is very important for the issue of indebtedness of private companies, we also launched the Qualification Programme, which is important for responding to the problem of Portuguese qualifications ; the Simple Programme, to reduce context costs, forest policy reforms and several other programmes, including at the level of the Blue Growth Strategy, which are important programmes, with reforms, for the growth of the Portuguese economy. We are also looking at areas where Portugal has important opportunities, such as tourism, in which we launched a 10-year strategy, the 2027 strategy; renewable energies, in which we relaunched investment, but without subsidization, or transversal areas, such as energy efficiency, the circular economy, the digitization of the economy or entrepreneurship. Programmes such as Startup Portugal and Industry 4.0 are focused on future growth, are focused on ensuring that the good growth we are having today can be extended to the future. These programmes support small companies, but with strong growth potential and promote the acceleration of the adoption of decisive technologies to improve the integration of Portuguese companies into the international value chain. The Interface Programme, which bridges the knowledge that exists in our higher education, the technical capacity that exists in our technological centres and companies, is also a long-range programme. These programmes, as a whole, aim to make a structural reform of our innovation system. Portugal, today, has a strong scientific capacity, has many examples of technology transfer and companies out of universities with enormous success, but it still has a lot of potential to take advantage of. This potential to take advantage is a growth potential for the country and is a potential that we want to mobilize. We want a more competitive Portugal, where exports continue to grow, but that grow in value, which grows by valuing what is Portuguese, by valuing our products and by valuing our main asset, the Portuguese workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The growth of the Portuguese economy has accelerated and reached the maximum values of the last nine years. The acceleration happened only after the current government is in office, it does not come from the past. The acceleration occurred at the same time as growth continued in Europe. It was not the European situation that changed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The acceleration is now supported by strong export growth in a diversified set of sectors. If it is right to congratulate entrepreneurs, workers, fishermen and Portuguese farmers and celebrate this success with them, this is also the time to work to ensure that investment, employment and export growth will continue. This is what we are doing, solving structural problems for Portuguese companies, such as excessive indebtedness, and helping finance companies with the Capitalisation Programme. This is what we are doing, ensuring the rigor and sustainability of public accounts. This is also what we are doing by launching well-designed strategies for the future in tourism, the sea and the forests.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u9	Mr. Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u10	I conclude, Mr. President. This is not the time to look at the past, it is the time to celebrate with the Portuguese the success of the present, it is the time to prepare the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u11	We shall begin the second phase of this appeal to the Government, with the debate. You have the floor to ask Mr Francisco, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u12	Mr President, Mr Francisco Lopes, first of all, I should like to thank you for bringing to the House such important debate as this on national production. I would like to ask you a question, replying to the dissatisfaction shown in your speech that the results are not sufficient. Yeah, that's not enough. We also think that they are not enough and we want more results than we have. But, honourable Member, is it not true that the PSD and the CDS have sought to impoverish the country with the idea that by impoverishing the country they have been able to increase exports and thus increase economic growth? [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] It was a wrong idea because in the years when the contribution of exports was positive for economic growth in 2012 and 2013 economic growth was negative. And only when the Socialist Party reversed or reversed this history of the country's impoverishment is that it was possible for the country to have positive results such as those presented today by the Minister of Economics, with 2, 8 % in the last quarter of 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u13	You now have the floor to answer, Mr Francisco Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u14	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I am grateful for the question put. I believe that the recent evolution, that the CFP values and that I have valued in my intervention, has a great meaning: it demonstrates the falsity of all the argumentation of the PSD and the CDS, which identified economic recovery, job creation and development with cuts in wages, cuts in pensions, attacks on public services and impoverishment. What you've seen is that this meant the country's sinking. The great significance of this evolution is this: a strategy of development and economic growth that...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u15	He's been missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u16	... has as a fundamental element the improvement of living conditions, wages, pensions, public services, investment and progress. [[PCP applause.]] This is a very important element. If PSD and CDS were denied by reality in their overwhelming strategy of impoverishment and worsening exploitation, then it is also necessary, today, to remove this illusion, which means that it has to go further in wages, pensions, in the recovery of rights, because it is not only a question of social justice, it is a fundamental and structural contribution to the development of the country. But for the PCP, this element must be found looking into the future, in a perception of what has happened in our country, regardless of a year or a quarter. Therefore, we put here as a fundamental question to knowing what are the structural causes that have conditioned the development of the country. Without attacking these causes it is not possible to have the necessary development. For example, we could refer to the question of accession to the euro in 1999. The reality is this: from 1999 to 2016 there was no growth in industrial production. We are in the same way, as we were in 1999. From 1999 until today there has been no growth in agriculture and fisheries, we are exactly on the same plane. From 1999 to today the construction has fallen 50 %, unemployment has increased by the elimination of half a million jobs. This is not evolution of the last year, which is positive, with the investment that has been made, but it is important to have this broader vision for, in addition to what is conjuncural, to look forward to development for the future. That is why we place as essential issues the growth of income and, at the same time, national production, the substitution of imports by national production along with the dynamisation of exports. That is why we are discussing this central theme today with this vision of a more developed Portugal, a more just Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u17	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the stage of requests for clarification to the Government. The Bureau recorded the registration of 23 Mr. Members and the indication we have received is that the requests for clarification, with the understanding of the honourable Members. Members of the various parliamentary groups are aggregated in thematic terms, and there will be a set of nine requests for clarification for Mr Economics, then another set of nine requests for clarification for Mr Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development, and also a group of five requests for clarification for Mrs Mar. That is how we will proceed. I remember that the understanding of the time devoted to questions, since there have been global times allocated to parliamentary groups, is that, in any case, within the limit, this will be twice as much time as planned. As you know, the regimental time for asking questions is 2 minutes, at the limit, each question will have the maximum time of 4 minutes. in the aggregate replies, the government will have the time of 6 minutes for each group of responses to be given. I believe that we are therefore understood about the procedures we are going to implement. You have the floor to ask Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr. Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u18	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, the central issue of this debate is the need for a policy to increase production and economic activity, which is an ongoing and undisturbed urgency. A policy aimed at defending, modernising and developing the country's productive apparatus is essential to support and defend micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPMEs). We have always stressed the need for this support as an essential element in responding to serious national economic problems and we have presented concrete solutions to these problems. Portugal needs investment to strengthen innovation, research and development in production; it needs to take advantage of public projects to dynamize productive sectors and support MPMEs to reduce energy revenue, increase value chain and improve its overall performance. But there is the monopoly over strategic sectors — energy, communications, etc. — and the tax burden on MPMEs which is unequal in relation to economic groups. There the bank is demanding commissions, maintenance costs and other administrative costs without any reasonable reason. Here are the criteria for access to Community funds with regulations, approved by the former PSD/CDS Government, complex, bureaucratic, inaccessible to the vast majority of MPMEs. There are 96 % of Portuguese companies outside the Portugal 2020 programme. Portugal needs to promote production and productivity, growth, employment; and it needs to affirm its sovereign development project, which requires the release of external constraints, particularly the euro. The basic framework of this currency to which the country is submitted is a framework that facilitates imports and makes it difficult to replace imports by national production. Does the Minister not agree that it is essential to move forward in this way to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with concrete measures that respond to the problems of sense and identified by entrepreneurs, from the outset, in the elimination of unnecessary bureaucracy, in facilitating access to finance and investment support, but also in the fundamental question of the release of external constraints? The fact is that the euro continues to be a genuine'made to measure' of great powers such as Germany and an 'eleven-story shirt' for Portugal and its productive sectors. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u19	Mr Fernando Virgílio, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u20	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, I welcome first of all the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing to debate policies on the development of national production. The defense of national production, the defense of consumption of what is Portuguese must be a design of all of us, regardless of parties, ideologies and governments. All of us today are aware that the appreciation of our production, of the production of what is Portuguese, of the substitution of imports by Portuguese production and of the increase in export is the path that makes our economy grow. Mr Minister, I regret that your government practice is not compatible with your rhetoric. Ex.A., speaking, speaking, and the ladies. Members of the Portuguese Communist Party also speak, but indeed we see very little about policies that promote economic growth in Portugal. Mr Minister, we are going to tell the truth: it was the Portuguese entrepreneurs as ambitious as this government, not if it was at the beginning of a new Community support framework and we did not have an extremely favourable international environment, certainly, growth in Portugal would not be what is today. I will give two examples of how government practice is not compatible, it is not consistent with its rhetoric. First of all, the reform of the IRC (tax on income of collectives) : when this government took possession, there was an agreement to lower the IRC rate for companies. Mrs. Members, when we talk about lowering the IRC rate, we are not talking about lowering corporate taxation for them to increase dividends to their shareholders. That's not what we're talking about! When we talk about the reduction in corporate taxation, we talk about the release of funds so that they can invest more, create more jobs and also better pay their workers, as it is fair. Mr Minister, do you think that the way to defend Portuguese production is the one that is being defended by some leaders of the left-wing parties who say that taxation on Portuguese companies should be increased? Is that the way? Finally, only one more question: this government, since it took possession, had as tax policy the increase of silent taxes, indirect taxes, those we all pay but which, psychologically, we do not feel as much as direct taxes. Minister, are indirect taxes harmless to the economy? Are they not harmful to the economy too? Had there not been those increases in the ISP (oil product tax) companies today had no more money to invest?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u21	Sir, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u22	Finally, Mr Minister, I just want this government to be consistent, which truly protects national production, which implements policies that will make our economy grow, not only by rhetoric! It is very beautiful this parliamentary rhetoric, but in terms of efficiency and effectiveness, for the growth of our economy, for our businesses and for its workers, is worth zero. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u23	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Heitor Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u24	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, first of all, we should begin by welcoming the CFP for bringing this debate to the plenary, which has an indisputable strategic relevance, because it happens at a time when the national economy seems to have entered a new productive cycle. It is precisely at this time that it is necessary to wager in the productive reconstruction of the country, promoting several sectors of activity and always taking into account the preservation of the planet, that is, an industry that promotes the decarbonization of the economy and here the State has a fundamental role. The four years of the right-wing Government have accelerated the process of destroying the national production system. The austerity policies and the sharp fall in investment, 55 % in the case of public investment, aggravated by the closure of credit to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), produced a record of bankruptcies and closures of companies. Portugal, which had already given up agriculture and accepted the destruction of fisheries, although having the largest exclusive economic area of the European Union, saw its dramatically reduced productive economy. Instead of a productive reconstruction of the country, the right-wing government has put on the attraction of foreign investment based on a clear agenda for the appropriation of national resources. If this government has a sustainable and socially just growth agenda, it must make a radical cut with the previous reforms and, once and for all, as the Left Block has been repeating, make investments for the creation of sustainable production and decent work, promoting lower external dependence, reducing CO2 emissions (carbon dioxide) and ensuring more employment and more quality. Public investment has not recovered from these last two budgets. last year, in fact, gross fixed capital formation by the public sector reached historical minimums. Properly managing the investment variable, either in its private dimension or in its public dimension, appears to be the most relevant strategic option for our common future. It is necessary to place a strategic focus on the economy based on the maintenance of full value chains in the country, on the various economic activities related to the production cycle of a product, on the promotion and technological adaptation through research and development that responds to environmental challenges, on a plan to reduce energy costs and promote renewable energy and energy efficiency and, finally, on the development of transport infrastructures that promote the transport of goods, in particular their articulation with ports, and that also promote the most sustainable options for the transport of products. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you, on these four dimensions, what are the policies that the Government can now announce so that these challenges can be fully met. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u25	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin by congratulating the Portuguese Communist Party on this subject, even because it allows it to register a change in the Minister. The Minister of Economic Affairs, once described by the Prime Minister as discreet, bold, is today a confident minister. It's developed. It is still far from the ferocious animal we already had in a Prime Minister who attended that bench, but still record that faith. But, Minister, I could have said — because I know you some intellectual honesty — that, in fact, this economic growth that is being recorded today, that we point out and whose merit we give to Portuguese workers and companies, to the country as a whole and obviously to this government too, was very much due to the action of the previous government. Mr. Minister could have said that anyone who wants to lose weight has to start early, sometimes even willing to give up sometimes seems impossible, but the results appear later. Therefore, the first question I have to ask Mr Minister is whether in this euphoria all goes or will not review the growth goals of the Portuguese economy, very close to those that had the Socialist Party's group of wise men, and whether or not they will continue the path started by the previous government and that so good results have now. This is because you, in fact, have not changed anything or anything. The PCP, the Bloc and the Greens claim that they have changed austerity, but, in fact, they have not changed. She's, in fact, where is she? It's in state services. What's going on? The Portuguese citizen has a few more tenths in his pocket, but he has worse health. The Portuguese citizen has a few more tenths in his pocket, but he has worse education. There is a climate relief and greater confidence in Portuguese companies, but they still have problems with financing and access to credit. So today, we can have a little more income, but just look at the business sector of the state, in the area of transport, to see that the degradation of services is greater than it was in the past. [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] Austerity has changed side by side and has not changed so much, as you want to believe. The questions therefore arise, Minister. Since we are talking about national production, a fact that is based on small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the national territory, including low-density territories, I ask you: what are the measures to finance, to capitalise SMEs? What percentage of the Portugal 2020 programme is affecting low-density territories? I wonder why this is exactly where we can measure whether there is any intention of this government to protect, exploit and enhance the growth that we have had so far, something that the previous government was doing, but which does not seem to be visible nor was it visible to you? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u27	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u28	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, in this request to the Government, which is focused on the conditions for the development of national production, which, in our view, is absolutely fundamental and urgent, especially when we know that the performance of our economy still depends on factors which our country does not dominate and which, therefore, justify or reinforce the need to bet on national production as a way to defend ourselves, we must speak of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We need to talk not only about the decisive role these companies play in our economy, representing about 60 % of the total turnover of non-financial corporations, but also about 80 % of the total employment in our country by SMEs. Despite the importance they assume, on all points of view, when we talk about economics, the truth is that, in general, these companies continue to have excessive levels of indebtedness. This scenario is even more worrisome if we take into account that SMEs are very dependent on banking credit, especially short-term credit, and that they have been forgotten and ignored during the painful mandate of the PSD/CDS Government. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are largely dependent on banking credit, which alone is not a good sign. In our view, the situation that these companies are experiencing is a major obstacle to the resumption of business investment, which, by contrast, makes it difficult or even compromises the revival of the Portuguese economy and economic growth. Therefore, if we take into account all the difficulties and the importance that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises represent for our economy, it is clear that this situation is hampering the economic recovery of the country. This is because micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have in our economy, there will be no economic recovery unless efforts and measures to support these companies are channelled. in this context, Minister, having the government set up the Business Capitalisation Mission Structure, it was interested to know what capitalisation measures the government proposes to move forward, especially with regard to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Minister, The Greens would also like to know what the situation is about measures aimed at increasing the energy efficiency of companies. This is an important issue not only because of the economic relevance of this matter but also because of the important role it represents from the environmental point of view and its potential contribution to combating climate change associated with it. We are talking about a matter which is crucial, with regard to the need for Portugal to comply with international commitments, particularly the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Therefore, because of the relevance of this matter, the Greens believe it would be important for the Government to be able to tell us something about the measures it is implementing or which it is considering to be implementing in the short term, with regard to increasing the energy efficiency of companies. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u29	Mrs. Members of the Government, I will have to appeal to your spirit of synthesis in the answers, since, as I have already announced, there are 23 requests for clarification, distributed by four blocks, the Government, if it takes, within four minutes to respond to each block, it will use almost all the time it has available. However, all of you. Members who have signed up to request clarifications are entitled to obtain an answer from the Government. Thus, for this balance to be achieved, the Government's response to each question box should not exceed 4 minutes. I therefore ask for this understanding, and I now give the floor to reply to Mr Caldeira Cabral, Minister of Economics.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by replying to Mr Bruno Dias of the Portuguese Communist Party, saying that in fact we share many of the concerns he has brought here. We also think that the defence of companies is done with measures such as administrative simplification, which is especially important for micro and small enterprises, because these charges affect all companies equally, with equal cost, but impact with a higher cost on micro and small enterprises. We also understand that our strategy for strengthening innovation, by focusing very much on interface centres, will have a very positive and very marked effect on micro and small businesses, which cannot have all these development, technology and innovation tools, but by working on the network and with these interface centres, they can achieve better results. Mr PSD, given the time constraints, I am being very brief. The honourable Member again reinforced the idea that it was the international environment that improved. One year ago, the euro area was growing 1, 7 % and 1. this year's quarter grew 1,7 %. Therefore, for two years the euro area has grown 1, 7%. What happened was that while the euro zone maintained the same growth throughout 2015 Portugal was slowing growth, while the euro zone maintained the same growth, throughout 2016 Portugal was accelerating growth. I think there must be some conjunctural factors that do not affect the European environment... it must be a new economic theory! I invite you to look at the data and tell us why, if the situation has improved so much, Europe is no longer growing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If the situation is the same for Portugal and Europe, then why is Europe not growing again and Portugal is accelerating its growth? It's important to look at this. If you look at the PT2020, you will see that the execution, in view of comparable periods of the QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework), is now double, and was not when we entered. The execution was stopped and that's important and it's serious. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As to the issues you raised about international companies, I invite you to see this report by EY Attractiveness Survey, by Ernst & Young, which says that Portugal is on Europe's radar. What this Report shows is that the investment intentions of multinational companies have in fact increased by 13 % in 2015 to 32 % and that 62 % of companies believe that Portugal is becoming more attractive. The Member of the Left Block asked about decarbonisation and energy efficiency. We have today been talking about this precisely, presenting measures, presenting a line of EUR 100 million, which, with the implementation of EUR 47 million of investments in public administration, investments in energy efficiency, will save money to the state, will improve energy efficiency and also the environment. Mr Hélder Amaral once again said that this is the result of the previous government, but in fact, when we entered, the economy was slowing down and is now accelerating. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I don't like looking at the past, I'm much more turned to look at the future. But the truth is, in the first months of 2016, at a time when the government had still taken possession of only one, two or three months ago, Mr. Members of the CDS and PSD had already said that the bad economic results of that time were the result of the policy of the current government, when the government had not even approved the State Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u31	Attention to time, Minister. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u32	Now, a year and a half later, they say that the results are no longer a merit of this government, they are the merit of the opposition. I am glad they went to the opposition, because they actually went to the opposition greatly improved the results! I'll stay here so I won't waste my time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u33	Turning to the second block of requests for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u34	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, we have already said this and we reiterate that the biggest deficit in our country is the deficit in production. in recent decades, the weight of industry in the economy has substantially reduced the result of right-wing policies, privatisations and integration of Portugal in the European Union, leading to the definition of industrial activity. Due to the conditionalities imposed by the European Union, in order to benefit the production of other countries with more powerful economies such as Germany, the steel industry today has a tiny expression and the traditional textile industry in our country has not been adequately protected with trade agreements between the European Union and third countries. Mr Minister, the increase in industrial activity goes through the disruptions imposed by the European Union, so that the country takes decisions sovereignly in accordance with national interests. The promotion and dynamisation of industrial activity should constitute a State policy. We have numerous strategic mineral resources — iron, copper, zinc, tin, lead — which enable the extraction industry to be dynamized. We have the conditions to support the traditional industry, such as textile and clothing, footwear, rowing of wood and furniture, rowing of cork, ceramic and glass. We have experience, knowledge and capacity to develop the manufacturing industry, strategic for the economy, which is an example of the shipbuilding industry, metallurgical industry, metalmechanics, electromechanics and electronics, the heavy chemical industry and the automotive industry. We have potential for the growth of new industries, with greater technological incorporation, such as biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, information and communication technologies, the area of energy production and new materials, aeronautics and aerospace and also in the area of the environment. In view of all this, the question I would like to leave to you, Minister, is: what is the Government's perspective on planning and adopting a policy for the development of modern industry, with innovation and high technology and with greater added value, which enables us to reverse external dependence and mitigate and overcome structural weaknesses, creating wealth and employment with rights? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u35	To request clarification, Mr. Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out the importance of the debate on national production, because it is always important to value what is ours. I begin by welcoming and valuing the effort and resilience of all our companies and of all the workers, not always valued by the parties on the left, and their capacity for innovation, development and design. in a difficult context, the effort of all obtained exceptional results. I refer to the year 2015 as the one that got the largest volume of exports, the highest ever, the one that presented the positive commercial balance and the one in which there is the affirmation of the brand made in Portugal, as credible and competitive in the international panorama. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u37	We must also mention the clear bet in technological centres, science, research and development parks promoted and supported by the previous government, as well as the importance of linking universities to companies, so that research and innovation meet the real needs. It should also be noted that the year 2015 was the year in which more than 35 000 startups were created and Portugal was the country of Europe which most had a stake in SMEs, in micro and small enterprises, was a clear bet on our businesses and their capabilities. by the government's speech, these funds will be restructured, they will move to other sectors, which will be a retrofit to our economy. After all, what do you want? Will they stop supporting micro and small businesses? in the framework of the Working Group — Industry, within the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have received a number of representatives from the sectors, who transmit to us that they need labour, fiscal and policy stability in order to develop their work more successfully. They do not want the constant discontinuity of policies and also refer to the lack of strategy for the country and future commitments. They don't want abrupt changes like those that happened. The lack of stability in these areas makes it difficult to negotiate and adjust prices in the international context. Tax and labour policies must be stable, predictable and reliable, which has not happened to this government. We also see that many of these companies are subject to strong seasonality and therefore the creation of the hour bank is an extremely important instrument. What do the Government, the CFP and the Left Block think about this? There is a need for more support for vocational training centres, so that significant job creation is evidence. They do not need any effective reductions in their financing or captivating. The diversion of support to the Ministry of Education has not always made it the most desirable and necessary costs for businesses and young people. So I ask: what will the government do to solve this problem? We only have more and better national production if we let our entrepreneurs do their job without disturbance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u38	To request clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u39	Mr President, Minister, I have to make a record: I asked two questions and I did not get any answers. I remember that one has to do with energy efficiency... [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u40	Maybe they heard the answer and I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u41	Mrs. Members, indeed, it is entirely true what Mr José Luís Ferreira has just said.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u42	Mr Minister, I would like to remind you of the questions, in the hope of having an answer in this second round: one, has to do with energy efficiency in businesses and the other, with measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Minister, as you know, the European Commission is seeking to bring into force a substantial part of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Treaty with Canada before the Member States can decide on the ratification process, which, in our view, is absolutely unacceptable, especially in a Europe that is so democratic. But now, it is not important to talk about the transparency of the negotiating process — which has been done behind the backs of the Europeans — or about its undemocratic nature, which is reinforced by the European Commission's intention to bring into force the ECTA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement) before the Member States can pronounce themselves. The point for this debate is to say that what CETA wants is to respond to the demands of multinationals. And how is that done? As is provided for in the Treaty, by removing regulatory barriers — whether at the level of environmental requirements or at the level of food safety requirements — there is more penalizing labour legislation for those working, opening up public services to the private sector, making themselves more economic liberalization and less social protection, and allowing multinationals to process States if their policies compromise the expectations of the profit of multinationals. And they can prosecute them, not in the courts of States, but in arbitrary courts, as many multinationals like. This is therefore a great way in which Europe is doing multinationals through CETA. Mr Minister, the European Parliament has produced a report on the effects of the entry into force of a similar treaty, but with the United States of America, called TTIP and Jobs, which points to elements that should make us think twice when we refer to CETA, because according to this report of the European Parliament, if and when the TTIP enters into force in its entirety, 1 million Europeans will lose their employment and the results of that Treaty in economic terms are absolutely residual. What matters is whether the government is in possession of a study that can predict the impact of CETA on our economy and on employment or better unemployment in our country. How can we not see how this Treaty with Canada can contribute to the dynamisation of our national production and our economy, the question I leave, Minister, is the following: does the Government believe that CETA will contribute to strengthening national production and our economy or will represent the final blow in the lives of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in our country? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u43	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Economic Affairs, Electricity and Fuels are decisive in the area of production, whether in the extractive and transforming industries, whether in fisheries, agriculture, forestry or in the various logistics systems associated with these activities. It is therefore evidence that the development of these economic sectors requires energy at appropriate prices. But that is not what happens in our country, Minister. in reality, Portuguese companies are crushed by the energy bill. For example, the case of an industrial company in Coimbra, visited by the PCP on its parliamentary days, in which the costs with electricity and gas are higher than the costs with wages or raw material. I therefore ask Minister : how can one want to boost national production and at the same time allow energy prices to remain at unproductive levels for businesses? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Economic Affairs, energy policy in Portugal is now completely subordinated to the interests of monopoly groups. This is the result of the wrong options in the past, the privatization of large energy companies such as EDP, REN, Galp or Transgas, the liberalisation of energy markets and the dismantling of the national energy system’s planning and public control system. It is in these wrong options of successive governments that is why companies, as well as individuals, bear excessive energy costs today, at the same time as large economic groups in the sector reap exorbitant profits. Some measures proposed by the CFP and already approved, such as support for small crafts and coastal fisheries, reduction in bottle gas prices or continuation of regulated electricity tariff are first steps. These must be followed by others, in order to ensure that the energy sector is put at the service of improving the living conditions of the populations and the full use of national productive capacities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u45	To respond to all requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor again. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs — Mr President, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u46	Better start by responding to the Greens, Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report. Having included the issue of energy efficiency in the previous answer, I ended up not answering your question directly, which was more comprehensive. Energy efficiency is an area to which we are giving great importance and the measures signed today — these protocols with several institutions, which include, for example, hospitals with high energy consumption — are energy efficiency measures that will enable these hospitals to save their energy bills, to do what is their function, which is to spend with the patients, to serve the populations. The same applies to political institutes, universities and several other public institutions. This is a way to improve the efficiency of public accounts, also improving environmental efficiency, etc. in the Interface Programme, we insist on putting, in part with regard to improving innovation, also the issues of circular economy and energy efficiency. These are technological improvements that can greatly contribute to increasing the competitiveness of companies and at the same time reduce the carbon footprint of these same companies. To be brief, and now passing on to Mrs Paula Santos, Member of the CFP, I would say that, in fact, at the beginning of the century, the Portuguese industry had difficult times, especially the traditional sectors, with the end of the Multifibre Agreement, for example, and with the greatest openness to globalisation, but I would say that at this time there are some very positive signs. For example, in these traditional sectors, the textile industry grew not only in exports last year, but in other years as in employment. And that also happened with the footwear industry and with a wide range of sectors. As I have already pointed out, paragraph 1. last year, exports of metallic products were falling 12 % and are now rising 22 %. It's different! In many of these sectors, better conditions are breathing and there is a confidence, a return on investment and a very significant increase in employment. In fact, last year was marked by the increase in employment in industry, something that happened in the last decade and a half in a few years, unfortunately. Mr Joel Sá, from the PSD, spoke about the links between universities and companies. This is something we're doing a lot about, but I don't think it's something that can be said that over the past four years a lot has been done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Not only have universities been weakened and their funding, but also technological centres, and if you visit them, you will find that many of them have in fact not had easy times in recent years. But I don't really like to look at the past, because if you looked at and heard a PSD member talk about stable tax policies, you could remind me of some brutal increase in taxes. when I heard them talking about trust, I remembered that it would be good to see the indicators of the INE (National Institute of Statistics ), which show that the trust of entrepreneurs and consumers is in the maximum of the last 20 years. If so, it's because something has been done, and well! The honourable Member of the Portuguese Communist Party spoke of electricity, which is, in fact, an area which concerns us and which is important for the competitiveness of companies. We have made a huge effort to review the contracts and to comply with them, so that for this year we will not only have a reduction in the tariff deficit but also the lowest price increase in the last decade and, for the first time, an increase in price below inflation. It has been achieved with effort and we must continue to work. We have also reduced costs for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, for example with certification, which are fixed but very serious costs for these companies. in the social tariff, we have reduced the price of electricity by 33 % to more than 800 000 families, which today benefit from a larger price.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u47	Attention to time, Minister. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs — Of course, Mr President. I just wanted to say that what we did was just enforce contracts, which reduced the price of electricity to many people, including smaller resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u48	There is now a set of nine requests for clarification which, as indicated by the Bureau, will be addressed to Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development. Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u49	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, the process of integration into the European Union and the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) have brought profound changes to the national production system and then concentrate it on the hands of some. The country is producing more in some productions, but it is also concentrating more on wealth created and concentrating on land ownership. With the thousands of farms closed, unemployment in agriculture came, which has increased steadily. A clear example of European policy is what happens in the milk sector, with the end of milk quotas, where some countries have prepared to dominate production in Europe and Portugal, which is self-sufficient, will be without a dairy sector if a production regulation system is not rejected. Similar effects may have the already decreed end of the vineyard planting rights. In this regard, the CFP will hold a public hearing on June 5, so that those responsible will not come in the future, as they do now with milk, be surprised with the result. The solution for the country goes through a strong bet on family agriculture, small and medium-sized agriculture, which is called for the occupation of the territory and for the production of proximity and quality, for the creation of jobs. The more farmers there are, the less concentrated will be the wealth produced, the more guarantee there is of a targeted agriculture for the satisfaction of the country's needs. The aim of achieving the balance of the agri-food balance in value is that not a glove in the CAP strategy and in the performance of agricultural programmes, but is contrary to the main objective, to make agriculture an instrument for the food sovereignty of the country, for the occupation of the territory and a contribution to full employment, which is now more difficult thanks to the constraints resulting from the European Union and its rules. That there is no doubt: an agriculture at the service of the country's development implies dealing with the constraints that Europe represents today. The question is whether the government wants to choose this path or whether it is available to deal with them. Don't you agree, Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u50	Mr Nuno Serra, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, this debate is also an excellent opportunity to stress the vital importance of the primary sector in increasing national production, creating internal wealth and, above all, in balancing trade balance. Mrs. Members, for this reason, the PSD completely rejects the national agricultural anti-production policies that this government has carried out. [[PS protests.]] The increase in taxes reflected in the price of the agricultural gas oil cross-sectionally affects the whole sector. It is a clear example of how competitiveness can be withdrawn from a sector that grew in sight.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u53	Mr Minister, it is not advertising or announcements of millions on television and in the newspapers that national production increases. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u54	It is necessary to implement concrete measures that drive our country and our production.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u55	Stop talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u56	Minister, milk is an example. The PSD presented a concrete initiative to enhance milk production: the mandatory labelling of the country of origin, in order to differentiate our product from the others. The PCP, the Left Block, The Greens and the PS — the PS that speaks so much here on the bench — have even refused that proposal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u57	And, therefore, after 14 months, there is still no milk labelling. Mr Minister, we are still waiting for a fair measure that differentiates our producers. The same goes for honey. Mr Minister, when do you work on the honey labelling so that you can differentiate a good product from our country? Another example is wine, a strategic sector for the national economy, where the political options of this government call into question its competitiveness and its national production. The Government has defined a priority grid under the VITIS (Restructuring and Wine Conversion Support Scheme) which is for us the PSD, which is totally inadequate and harmful to national production. It was this government's option to discriminate negatively against producers with less than 3 ha of vines. For the PSD, this situation is incomprehensible, precisely because the growth that we have in Portuguese wines has resulted from these small producers with very small vineyards plots. In addition, Mr Minister, many of these producers had acquired planting rights, which must be used by 2018. Now, being excluded from VITIS, they are damaged in this vineyard plantation. What I am asking, Minister, is whether you are available to extend the time limit for the use of these licences so that Portugal can, yes, grow in national production, and not do what you have done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u58	Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, « The economic dynamics that the agricultural sector has gained in recent years, in particular in the years of crisis, in terms of (...) growth in agri-food exports, is at risk, and is at risk in the face of the current government's unconceivable and preconceived policies. » — this was said by Mr Nuno Serra in a political statement in April 2017. Do you want to correct me, honourable Member? Do you want to correct your speech? It is better to correct, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Nuno Serra.]] Well, sir, I'll give you the numbers. Portuguese exports of foodstuffs and beverages, paragraph 1. the quarter of 2017, amounted to EUR 550 million, a growth of 28, 6 % compared to March of last year, according to the INE. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In other words, the evolution of agricultural products is above the average growth of the country's global exports, which grew 23, 9 % in the same period. [[PSD protests.]] Calm down, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Calm down, because I have more data! In 2016, exports from the agri-food sector amounted to EUR 6300 million, representing 11, 3 % of the total economy and growth rates were higher than the rest of the economy. [[They've always been!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u60	With regard to VITIS, do you also want to deny your statement? The government has already denied it, Mr. You can also lie. As you know, the official data available confirm that the annual average of the support paid to the wine sector, through the National Programme for Support for the Wine Sector, in the years 2012 to 2015, that is, during your governance period, was 62, 8 million euros per year. In 2016, the current government paid €69, €3 million in the same programme, i.e. €6, €5 million more. Would you like more, Mr. Deputies? It is that the PS has a working heritage in agriculture, which has as an anchor the realization of the Alqueva. It is this recognition of the heritage that has led the right, especially the CDS-PP, as a government, to seek to empty this heritage with the alleged great attention to agriculture, farming and agri-food. Mr Nuno Serra, nothing more false! It is that after the former Government has conditioned the availability of resources from the current government to support agriculture, the PS Government has made a great effort to generate conditions for preserving the working heritage for the rural world. Do you know how many markets this government has already opened? It opened 29 markets for 84 national products — 54 of the animal area and 30 of plant origin. The question I want to ask the Minister is this: what are his expectations for the national context? What contribution will it make to increasing national agricultural production? Mr Nuno Serra and Mr. PSD Members, you have either lost your books or are studying by the CDS books. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u61	Let's see if agriculture keeps raising the tone of the debate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u62	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, what is true is that the huge inequalities between large agriculture and small agriculture in access and investment support, as well as in access to income, were emphasized in the current Rural Development Programme ( RDP ), designed by the former PSD/CDS Government. They actually have that responsibility. Nor can we be entirely unjust in relation to the PSD and the CDS and the previous government, because I think they have contributed in recent months to the growth of the row of the melons! ... Indeed, the growth of this row on this side of the bench has been very strong. But what is also true is that, looking at the latest data on Portuguese agriculture, we continue to walk at different speeds and in reverse directions, it is big or small agriculture. And we can't be wrong about this. The decline in small family farms continues to exist and it is this productive fabric that occupies the vast majority of the territory of the central and north of the country. This question may arise: but does this have to be the same? Is there any other chance it's not? It's obvious that it is. It is clear that if we succeed in changing asymmetries in the development of the agricultural sector, which have been driven by this CAP, by this common agricultural policy, which, in fact, imposes the absence of a national policy for the development of Portuguese agriculture, if we succeed in combating this, we would certainly not be wasting the wider part of our productive fabric on agriculture. These enormous inequalities, which I have already mentioned, are based on the RDP, which has reproduced the historical inequalities in relation to access to the Base Payment Scheme (RPB) and has not created any investment support measures in small agriculture. Mr Minister for Agriculture, would you like to give you a concrete and compelling example of this inequality? With the aim of encouraging the organization of producers, a set of increases has been created in several measures for farmers integrated into producer organisations. However, in addition to this, it was absolutely difficult to create producer organisations for small farmers and for the new rows. Even as it is created to finance the functioning of producer organisations it is inaccessible to the vast majority of production organisations in our country. This is an objective reality, Minister, which needs to be resolved. The PDR is inadequate in relation to the development of Portuguese agriculture. And this is a central problem of our agricultural production, Minister. I would like to give you a number of examples about this, but time does not allow it. However, I must say to you, Minister, that it is essential that in a process of revision of the CAP, which is already under way, is already on the European agenda, Portugal has a very firm and very clear position in the defence of Portuguese agriculture, I would say more in the defence of southern Europe's agriculture. This challenge was of interest to join the Ministers of southern Europe, the Ministers of Mediterranean Agriculture, and to demand a CAP for the Mediterranean, a CAP for southern agriculture, which adapts to this reality of small agriculture, which adapts to national production, which develops our national production and does not continue to decimate small agriculture in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u63	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u64	Mr President, Mr President, the Minister for Economic Affairs has come here today to present us with a picture of the country and, by the way, Mr Pedro do Carmo too, because they want to make us believe that the country is reduced to 1. the quarter of 2017. The reality is that the exports of agri-food and forestry have grown in recent years and have made a very positive contribution to reducing the deficit in the commercial balance of goods and services, which, for the first time, I recall, in 2013, had a positive balance. Moreover, this fact — the good contribution of agri-food exports — was mentioned yesterday in the 15-year debate by the Prime Minister. So it's not just me saying it, Mr. Prime Minister himself said it here. The reality is that between 2011 and 2015 during the adjustment period, the exports of the agri-food sector and the forest sector increased by 5 % per year. Now, in 2016, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, only 2 %, i.e. less than half. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u65	Maybe, you read the sheet wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u66	The fact is that exports across the rest of the economy grew by 5, 1 % per year between 2011 and 2015. But in 2016, they grew by 2, 3 %, that's less than half. It's strange, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. These were the words of the Minister. I can no longer agree with the words of the Minister regarding the role that the productive sector, the entrepreneurs, has in economic dynamism and, therefore, in the essential role of companies. But I can no longer disagree with everything else, Minister for Agriculture. And I give you two very concrete examples. For example, exports in the fruit and vegetable sector have always grown above 10 % in recent years between 2011 and 2015. Do you not think the Minister of Agriculture has contributed to the opening up of markets for more than 200 products and more than 80 countries, which the former Government has achieved? [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u67	In fact, taking in the words of Mr. Pedro do Carmo, who said that they opened 28 or 29 markets,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u68	It was 29!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u69	... I say, 29 new markets, I recall that even the Minister for Agriculture himself, at a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, confirmed that the markets take about four years to open. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u70	So these 28 markets that you opened were just the 28 markets that we had left with working, open and ongoing processes. [[PS protests.]] I'm not taking credit for them. You have continued, and for the sector, for the economy, for the farmers, the policies that the previous Government has followed in this regard. in this measure, thanks to God, you were enlightened and did not reverse the policies of the previous government. I give another example, Minister. Exports of live animals increased by 30 % in 2015, another 30 % in 2016, and now yes to 1. the quarter of 2017 — when compared to 1. the quarter of 2016, because I am not comparing quarters with years — they grew again 30 %. Therefore, there has been an increasing increase in exports of live animals. I therefore ask you, Minister for Agriculture: do you not think that it would have contributed to the opening up of the export markets for live animals to the Middle East? It is true that part of these exports was made by this government, but obviously it was not in a month that Mr Minister opened the markets. So this work had been done from the past. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Therefore, the Minister for Agriculture says, well, that an increased effort is needed to replace imports and further boost exports.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u71	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u72	I will finish, Mr. President. What does the government do to support the sector and improve these results further? It duplicates export licences and still creates an export fee per animal that goes up to 12 € in the case of bovine animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u73	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u74	Mr Minister, I wonder if this is your way of supporting national production. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u75	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u76	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, the question I would like to ask you is whether the orientation of the Community funds clearly turned to support agribusiness is the one that best serves the interests of the country and the development of Portuguese agriculture. There were times when our food sovereignty was called into question with support for non-production, paying farmers not to produce, and what we are witnessing today is that the support is channelled to the agribusiness, regardless of the need to produce, clearly promoting the capitalist expansion of agriculture. Mr Minister, does he not consider that the decision of the governments of the European Union to support the large agribusiness, intensive production, large agrarian production, leaving entirely aside production oriented to the satisfaction of the country's needs, production oriented towards regional and national development, geared to the fixing of populations and employability, does he not consider that this decision is questioning what was essential to promote, in a balanced way, national development? All the more so when we know that this great agribusiness has unfortunately been associated with duty-free work, with low wages, sometimes also slave labor, stressing the path to depopulation, the spectrum of over-exploration of land, the massive use of pesticides and other chemicals and the lack of monitoring of environmental values. This is the question I would like to ask you, Minister: do you think that the concentration of the means of production and the concentration of the support of Community funds in agribusiness correspond to the development that our country would need and the development that our agriculture necessarily lacks? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u77	Mr Mauricio Marques of the PSD has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the initiative of the CFP, by interpelting the government and itself as an integral part of the majority that supports it. The PSD has always been a champion of national production, essential for the balance of our current balance of transactions, not only because of the decrease in imports but also because of the increase in exports, which we always defend. Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, the forestry sector, which accounts for around 5 % of GDP (gross domestic product ), 10 % of our exports, a turnover of more than EUR 7 billion and a balance of trade over EUR 2, 6 billion per year, should not be more accurate? A sector which contributes decisively to job creation, which now represents more than 100 000 jobs, which contributes to the creation of wealth in low-density territories, particularly in the interior, should not be further stimulated? Mr Minister, should not the ownership rights of more than 400 000 owners be more respected? Should not producers' claims, industry representative associations, those who work day by day in the forest be dealt with? Mr Minister, you hear only people and too urban agents, who don't know the rural reality and don't value those who care to keep our forest alive. What the current government and the majority that supports it are doing is a real challenge to the forest industry, for the legislative measures that stubbornly insist on promoting and for the disturbance they have brought with investors. So national production is not promoted, so we will increase imports of woody material. The difficulties created by the current government to forest producers will contribute decisively to the lack of raw material, reducing the competitiveness of our line. Persecution to higher-income species will promote de-investment in forest activity and consequently the abandonment of the land. The current government and the majority that supports it are not contributing to the development of national production in a sector where we can be the most competitive in the world. The Government and the majority that supports it are creating difficulties with national production of forest origin and thus disincentive investment in the sector. So we do not promote national production. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u79	Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo from the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: in recent years there has been a significant increase in investment in the agricultural sector. Promoting competitiveness, growth and the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises and ensuring support for young entrepreneurship and sustainable investment projects in the agricultural sector have been key factors in putting Portugal at a level of excellence in the quality of agricultural production. The increase in national production has also generated added value which, in summary, have a reflection and influence on domestic product, exports, imports, trade balance. This trend and willingness to invest in the sector have recently become apparent, in a remarkable way, by the number of applications submitted under the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme ). However, approvals have been delayed, because decisions are not approved, Minister for Agriculture. But it is known that the support appropriations available for each of the tenders will not allow everyone to be covered. Many of those who presented projects and advanced with considerable investments and value-creation enhancers are faced with the probability of seeing their expectations for fat funding, as it became known the difference between the volume of projected private investment and the value of public support available to support it. In response to this fact, the Government has determined the revision of the support allocation rules, reducing support rates and creating ceilings, rather than strengthening the RDP with State budget funds. Since the main merit of public policies is not to tell economic agents what to do but to give them conditions to do so and, at the same time, to provide them with the right incentives and not to disturb them, a question is required. Given the successful patent that has accompanied investment in the agricultural sector, and of course the Government has been defending public investment as a solution to many of the situations affecting the national economy—for example, for the reduction of unemployment and the risk of poverty and social exclusion—will the Minister be available to strengthen the budget allocation of the programme, thus increasing national participation in support measures, which at present is only 15%? The CDS believes that it will be considered that, in every 10 000 € of investment, the State only contributes 600 €, equivalent to 15 % of national participation, i.e. 6 % of total investment. However, this value has a return to the public sector in VAT (value added tax ), IRS (income tax for natural persons ), IRC (income tax for corporate persons) and social contributions, for direct benefits, and for indirect benefits, in activities related to the agricultural sector that I will not list here. These 6 % have a multiplier effect on the economy, which can range from 10 to 20 or up to 30 times more than the 600 € invested by the State. And Mr Minister, the EUR 115 million you announced for strengthening the RDP will only come by 2020, which will be too late for the sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u81	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We all agree, of course, that money used in agriculture is money very well used, because it creates wealth, creates jobs and has added value. But this government, which is known as the government of huge cuts in public investment—in health, education—has also not been well behaved in agriculture. What the books say, Mr Pedro do Carmo, is that the former Government, with a financial assistance programme, reinforced in particular money for the implementation of the PRODER ( Rural Development Programme ), and after the PDR, by EUR 100 million. This government is no more than EUR 65 million. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u83	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u84	Take a good look at the public investment this government makes in agriculture! More: Actually, the fact is that this government does not support and does not strengthen the agriculture sector, a sector that has given evidence, a sector that has corresponded. And what happened, Mr. and Mr. Minister for Agriculture? What farmers are in marriage is that they do not have open applications, because this government has decided to have applications open for only one month. And what happens? In fact, anyone who wants to make an application has to wait for a whole year to submit that same application and then that will delay the analysis of the investments. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Mr Pedro do Carmo and Mr Minister for Agriculture, which had previously taken two months to examine, at the moment, a year ago, and the Minister is well aware of this. It takes a year!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u85	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u86	What farmers objectively have is this difficulty in managing to respond. Then, when he speaks from the point of view of export growth, he speaks in absolute terms, Mr Minister, he speaks in absolute terms. But do you know why exports do not grow as they grew in 2015 and 2014? It is precisely because there is indeed no strengthening of the RDP's funds. There was no such reinforcement, there was no money! Just as there was no money for hospitals, for education, also in agriculture did not follow the wishes of farmers. This is the reality, the books say this. Mr Minister for Agriculture, I would like to ask you a very specific question. The Minister presented, relatively recently, a strategy for organic agriculture with five objectives and 10 measures. Mr Minister, in fact, we must encourage organic farming, not only in production but also in consumption. The consumption of biological products, their inclusion in school meals, is essential, we know that all this is consensual. But, Mr Minister, in addition to what is envisaged in the RDP from the point of view of the financial instruments that have been closed — objectively, those 130 million Mr Minister was talking about — what kind of instruments, particularly financial policy, do we have to increase not only the production but also the consumption of biological products? Mr Minister, indeed we have to give this signal, it is not enough to say that we have to increase both production and consumption of biological products and then we remain for promises, measures, objectives, without having the corresponding policy instruments. Therefore, Mr Minister, I give you an advice: strengthen the funds for agriculture, because farmers are thirsty of them, and, above all, have another capacity to respond to the investment programmes and the candidatures that are presented. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u87	You now have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I only have 6 minutes to answer this extensive question, I will try to be as objective as possible and concentrate some answers to different Members. Mr Ramos, on the issue you put on the milk sector, as you know, we found the sector plunged, more than a year ago, into an unprecedented crisis. With a set of national and other measures adopted in the European Union and with the strengthening of European funding, we were able to reverse the trend and, fortunately, the prices of the milk sector have increased and the most difficult period of the crisis has been overcome. We have presented a special plan for the recovery of the sector, with a vast set of measures that have had an excellent application, and, fortunately, at this time the sector is experiencing moments of relief. The fact is that, for many months, the former Government simply forgot that there was a crisis in this sector in Portugal — in fact, it did the same with regard to the pig sector and, fortunately, we were also able to resolve this situation. As for the right to plant vineyards, Mr President, I believe that there is a misunderstanding in your question. The honourable Member has expressed concern about the liberalisation of the sector, but as you know, the sector is conditioned until 2030. It is not possible to plant any vineyard hectare in Portugal in addition to a maximum of 1 % which the Government may authorise in each year. Therefore, this is the situation that is currently in place and which is guaranteed until 2030 and we will seek to extend this period indefinitely, if possible, within the framework of the next reform. Mr Nuno Serra said a number of things that I find very difficult to understand, because I think that you have lived in this country in the last year and a half, as well as in the last four and a half years. Mr President, there is a set of policies that are anti-production, but it is enough to consult the statistics on the value of production and the value of exports to question whether these policies are anti-production, compared to known numbers. [[Protests by PSD MP Nuno Serra.]] As for the milk sector, I am saying the same thing again: you have ignored, olympically, for more than a year, a sector to sink, without having done anything to reverse the situation. Fortunately, the situation was reversed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He also said on the wine support programme that the Government does not support small farmers. Mr President, this is « crocodile tears », they are « crocodile tears » of a Member who supported a party which negatively discriminated against small agriculture in the Community support framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Nuno Serra.]] After a negotiated framework, we have been trying to reverse precisely the negative discrimination that you have made. The honourable Member will remember that we increased the payment to small farmers by 20 %, allocated an increase of 50 % per hectare on the first five hectares of all farms and spent investment in small agriculture from 25 000 to 40 000 euros. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done all this and you could have done much more in negotiating the framework with the European Union, but you have not. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After all this, the honourable Member has come to shed crocodile tears on small agriculture, but small farmers know you well. Mr Pedro do Carmo, I thank you for the references you have made. Indeed, the government has made a strong commitment to internationalisation, which has allowed us to open up 30 new markets in the last year and a half — it has not been 29, today we can say that it is 30 — and have another 55 in negotiations for about 200 products. The Member of the CDS says that this is due to the merit of the previous Government. Obviously, all policies have continued and I have never merited anyone, Mrs Deputies, but we have already opened up a lot more markets than those you had in negotiation when they left the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Soares, on small farms and their negative discrimination in the current framework, as I have said, I recognize this situation and we are doing everything to reverse it. And more: I would like to announce here, first of all, that the Government will move forward with the preparation of a statute for small family farming, in a horizontal logic, involving several ministries, in order to concentrate the possible aid set, precisely to defend and revitalize this important sector, not only economic but also social. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u89	Attention to time, Minister. I don't know how he'll do it, but it's not easy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u90	Mr President, I'm sorry if I've wasted my time, I'll be very quick. As for the increases that you have mentioned, we have already eliminated them from the RDP. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca spoke of the open markets and also said that we doubled the export rate. I want to tell you, Mrs Deputy, that if you are paying attention to the Journal of the Republic here within two days, you will verify that not only do we not increase it as we have downloaded it: it will go from 30 € to 25 €. Mr António Filipe said that the funds go to the agribusiness. The Community support framework is designed, eligibility is defined in the Community regulation, which is open to all types of agriculture. Of course, we will seek, within the scope of national manoeuvre, to ensure that there is positive discrimination on the part of small farmers. Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo asked whether the government was available to strengthen the RDP and said there are more applications for investment than the money available. Mrs Deputy, I ask you: then, if so, why did you not put any more money in the RDP that was negotiated by the government in which your party held that responsibility? [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we have already done has been added, with national appropriations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u91	Please try to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u92	... plus EUR 155 million to try to cover up the financial hole that Mrs Cristas Mrs Assumption has already publicly recognized that she has left in the Ministry of Agriculture. Mr Mauricio Marques spoke of the forest but did not carry out any special criticisms. We are, of course, implementing a profound reform of the forest that the country needed many years ago and that you were unable to do. Finally, to Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos I would just say that when he talks about the PDR, I admire that he has managed to make his statement without laughing, because he spoke of the poor execution of the PDR by the current government when we found this program with zero projects contracted, with zero projects running in 2014,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u93	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u94	... and with 12 % implementation in 2015. The implementation of the RDP in 2016 was 100 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u95	Mrs. Members, we also have a set of five requests for clarification, this time addressed to the Minister of the Sea, Ana Paula Vitorino. The first Member to request clarification is Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Sea, the deepening of the integration process into the European Union has been dramatic for the fisheries sector. It is easy to remember the PSD/Cavaco Silva governments, with the dismantling of the fishing fleet and the unemployment in fishing. The country has already fished more than 60 % of what it consumes, but today it will not reach 40 %. If Portugal does not catch the fish it consumes, someone does it for you. The European Union has been a strong step back in fisheries policy for our country. The country turned to the sea, the fishing country, the third largest fish consumer in the world, one of the countries with the largest economic area exclusive and in the process of being increased is now little more than insignificant in fisheries. The European Union rule that does not allow the country to increase overall power and archaeology is a constraint to fishing activity and its development. Another example of Europe's embarrassment is in the process of marketing authorization for the first spear in xavega art, already approved in the Assembly of the Republic, unanimously, which has the agreement of the Government and does not advance because Brussels does not allow it. The fact that Europe is managing our resources is an unacceptable loss of sovereignty. Also due to the rules of the European Union is the insufficiency and budgetary restrictions, with their consequences in the difficulties of the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), in the delays in the implementation of the Sea Portugal ship, in the difficulty of achieving the crew of the scientific cruises, in the lack of conditions for the researchers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u98	Portugal has already had a larger fishing sector and a huge canning industry. They continue today, despite the management model, to be available for capture species that may be important for industry and even for consumption in fresh, so be valued. This only shows that what is missing in the country is autonomy on these matters. Do you not agree, Minister, that more autonomy in managing our resources would be a better strategic option for the country? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u99	Mr Cristovão Norte, from the PSD, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, the decisive budget for deepening the conditions for the completion of the sea economy is investment. Therefore, in this debate, what makes sense is to assess how the government is taking the appropriate steps to ensure investment mobilization for an area that still has scarce growth, an embryonic area, but which has a great potential for growth in our economy, especially because it is based on endogenous resources and, in this way, it can project robust, sustainable economic growth and in conditions that configure a window of opportunity for the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u101	In this sense, the Minister, in 2014, with her important and prestigious collaboration, was able to approve in the Assembly of the Republic the Law of Bases of Management and Order of the Maritime Space. We both agree that this is a basic stone of the new impulse of the Portuguese sea. In 2015, as should also be remembered, the decree-law for the development of this regime was passed but the portals were missing. And what did the government do? Let's see. A year and a half ago, a situation plan was set up. The situation plan, for everyone to know, is the portrait of the present and the potential of the maritime space. That is, we need to know what is done and what is not done to mobilize investment. If there is no situation plan, there is no investment. And what happens? We had, in a year and a half, 13 licences, which is very little for the ambition I have, that the Minister has and that everyone has for a matter that is a national design. Therefore, the situation plan has not been made. And why wasn't it done, Minister? Is it because the Communist Party and the Left Block were against legislation and do not want concessions to be made? Or was it because Mr. Minister and your Ministry are not able to respond to this? Another fundamental issue is that of the single electronic counter, Mr. Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u102	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u103	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, the unique electronic counter or the entrepreneur's counter is not made, everything continues to work in paper format, there is no dematerialization and, often, services are not responding. What about the dredgings? It is remarkable how the PS, the Left Block and the PCP omit olympically the issue of dredgings. I remember every year we talked about dredgings and in 2016 no dredgings were made,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u104	It's just demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u105	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u106	...and, in 2017, no one here...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u107	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u108	... to raise the great issue of dredging, which is essential for national production and also essential for the safety of fishermen. It is therefore crucial for the Minister to answer these questions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u109	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u110	Also to ask for clarification, I now give the floor to Mr João Azevedo Castro of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of the Sea, I begin by welcoming the CFP for the initiative, in view of the relevance of the issue of creating conditions for the development of national production, at a time when Portugal prepares the exit of the procedure due to excessive deficit, grows above the forecast, achieves uniquely positive values in the commercial balance, assumes the fight against precariousness, lower unemployment, rises employment, the economy grows above the expected, the confidence rates rise successively, at a time when we will indeed be able to focus on improving competitiveness and the qualification of resources, ensuring economic growth, employment and increased productivity. It is in this context that we share the importance of the proposed topic, of reflection on national production. For obvious reasons, this issue is of particular interest at sea, not only because of the expression for the country, which is already recognised to it, but above all because of the potential it can still develop, based on a management that considers a global approach to the oceans and the challenge of sustainability, both environmental and social, and economic. We believe that the government should start where it should begin: soon in its structure, by regaining the importance of the Ministry in its organic, as well as in its action, operating the Sea 2020, allowing to relaunch investment, having as priorities innovation, energy efficiency and safety at sea. The Government has been strengthening research and data collection on the state of the main target resources of the fishing fleet, reorganizing the aquaculture sector with new legislation, which impedes its development, with an expected investment of more than EUR 40 million, adding the intervention of the different stakeholders and renegotiating fishing quotas in Brussels, increasing the potential catches of species of greater economic value, strengthening the role of producer organisations, in sustainable management and resource recovery. This government is also proceeding to dematerialize and deburocrate processes that are urgently needed to generate new energies in a sector that has been blocked. We are all reminded of the aggregation of the former IPTM ( Harbour and Maritime Transport Institute ) to the Directorate-General for Fisheries and Aquaculture ( DGPA), filling this structure of competences, creating a structure full of competence but empty of means to exercise them. Today, the implementation rates for the Sea 2020 are already in the order of 5, 7 %, worth more than EUR 20 million. in this context, I would like to ask Mr.Minister of the Sea, in this new economic cycle, how she sees the challenge of the Portuguese sea contribution to employment and the re-qualification of national production as required.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u112	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 30 years ago, Portugal had about 40 000 fishermen. Today is less than half. 30 years ago, some 14,000 vessels were sailing in Portugal. Today, we have little more than a third of this number, with a fleet with an average age of 30 years, without any kind of support for its renewal, which the sector has been claiming. Portugal must implement measures that allow us to be sovereign and self-sufficient in the production of the goods we need, and also in the sea. But for that, contrary to what we have been doing, the extractive fishing sector must be seen as a potential and not as something anachronistic. And the fisheries sector, which are the people and small businesses that work in it, has to be strongly supported by material and human means. Even though the sea has more potential, in the words of various governments and rulers, it is true that the number of fishermen and our fishing capacity has fallen. Many are the causes, and one will be the low pay of workers in the face of the risk that this activity offers, causing the forced emigration of many. But there are others, and much more decisive. The most important is the incentive to reduce our productive capacity through the slaughter of vessels promoted by the European Union's common fisheries policy. in the follow-up report on Portugal's participation in the European Union, prepared by the Government and sent to the Assembly of the Republic, a document which was considered today in 7. the Commission, there is no single reference to the necessary renewal of the fishing fleet — I repeat, one single! This policy reduces our productive capacity, benefiting from the strong foreign competition of large shipowners and fish companies, thus saying a downward path of activity as a whole and a greater dependence on imports. What in the speech is called by economy of the sea, and which includes the most varied activities, since fishing—of course! — transport, food, mineral resources, etc. , promises us riches with a view to development. The problem is, it doesn't seem to go through a potential. Currently, for example, shipowners and fishermen are still waiting for an updated RIM ( Maritime Registration Regulation ) adapted to the modern circumstances of the sector. When will the RIM be ready, Minister? Resources are still lacking in DGRM ( Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Safety and Maritime Services ). Is it not time to employ people and provide the services with the resources appropriate to the needs of the sector, which obviously does not have these resources? What about shipbuilding? What has been done about the sector? Will this government follow the recent example of the Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo? What about the problem of adoration that seems to have no permanent solution in view? Forced stops could be avoided with frequent dredgings executed at the right time, particularly in the summer. Where is that investment? A permanent dredging service, or another of equal effect, is a much-needed solution by the sector rather than occasional and occasional competitions. Mr. Cristovão Norte, you have been talking about dredgings since 2015 and what seems to be omissa is the memory of Mr. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Food sovereignty, in which fisheries are a critical factor, has an obvious economic dimension, especially because of the jobs it provides, but it is also essential in the defence plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u114	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u115	I'm done now, Mr. President. in a framework of deep international instability and threats that they look at every day, the State has to guarantee a level of food production, so that, in no case, they lack the table of Portuguese and Portuguese. This is not about isolationism or pure and simple rejection of international trade, it is about 'only', with all the quotes you want to put before you, of responsibility for citizens and citizens, to an absolutely essential dimension of our survival. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u116	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u117	Mr President, Minister of the Sea, fishing ports and commercial port activities are of particular strategic importance for the development of the country and the increase in our national production. As regards fishing ports, it should be noted that the need for investment and the fight against degradation, the problems of landing and the need for structured responses programmed are the most significant problems for fishing communities. Examples such as the fishing port of Póvoa of Varzim or the security problems in the fishing port of Figueira da Foz are some of the many examples that from north to south there are problems that require a planned and structured intervention by the Government. Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to ask you what the Government wants to do about these specific problems. Regarding port activity, more commercially, an integrated view of port development is required for the CFP. We cannot have ports competing against each other, as if it were a competitive market. It is necessary to ensure public management and investment, which takes time. For example, in Viana do Castelo has been announced several times and has not yet been implemented. It is necessary to articulate port management and investments in ports with the needs of our productive sectors, in order to enhance them and not so much to facilitate the lives of importers. This joint is absolutely necessary to defend the national interest. Finally, Madam Minister, it is necessary to combat deregulation and precarious work in the port sector. Our differentiation is due to the quality of the services provided and not to the price, but to the exploitation of those who work. in this sense, Mrs Minister, and taking into account the truly strategic importance that the fisheries sector and the port sector assume in what is the potential for growth in national productive activity and export capacity, the question I want to leave to you is precisely what the government wants to do, given that these are, for us, the priority and strategic lines for the development of these two sectors. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u118	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I thank the questions that have been raised, because I have the opportunity to convey the very good news in our area, as well as to clarify some of the issues that are sometimes poorly transmitted. With regard to what is the good news already in the sector, I would like to start by talking about exports and the greatest balance in the commercial balance. It is not worth saying that we import very much fish, because we well know that the cultural and gastronomic habits of our country oblige that every year we import cod, that, of course, we do not have the ability to fish, because it is a species that we do not have in our waters and therefore we have to use the import. however, the good news is that, in the face of a policy of greater environmental control, a policy of greater sustainability and a scientific policy, which allows us to better know our resources, we are now in fact with more quotas than those we had before, with an increase in the quota of 5 % in 2016 and an increase of 11 % in 2017, which means that catches are growing and allowed us to increase exports by 9 % of the value of fish and by 7 % of the preserved. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is good news, but we have even better news. It is that everything we are doing to, in general, the areas of the economy of the sea, we can have even better results. And what does this accomplish? First of all, with funding. Finally, it is at cruise speed what is the Sea 2020. We have already committed EUR 100 million of investment in the fisheries sector, in the area of culture, in this area, which allows us to say that we have, with the projects that are already approved, a growth of about 250 new jobs, which is significant in an area in which we have actually had a long way, with the loss of jobs and the reduction of the number of workers. however, the good news does not stay here. And they don't stay here because, in fact, we have an investment plan that goes beyond the investment of the Mar 2020 programme, goes beyond those that are investments in fishing and fish rowing. Of course, we have investments in ports. Several questions have been raised on this subject and I must say that over the next 10 years we have an estimate of investment in this area of about 2, 1 billion to 2, 5 billion euros and that they will add, in terms of estimates, more 12 000 jobs as well as we will contribute to the increase of 200 % of the burden on our ports, which, in addition to job creation, will also have an impact on what is national GDP. However, the good news is not left here, because also in the area of offshore renewable energy and in the field of biotechnology we have good news. This week will be posted editorials for applications for the Blue Fund programme, precisely in this area. These are also areas where over the next 10 years an increase of EUR 250 million in gross value added ( VAB ) and the creation of 1500 jobs is expected. But they still don't get the good news around here. With regard to administrative simplification, the new maritime registration regulation, which has been referred to, is currently concluding a legislative package on all these matters relating to recreation nautical, fishing, the maritime registration regulation, the navigation and safety of vessels and the merchant navy. The legislative process on these matters is coming to an end and we will have the opportunity to discuss some of them because some will be proposed by law. I must say that these investments, both in the area of ocean renewable energy, both in the area of ports and in the new economy of the sea, will also result themselves in support of what is the naval industry, which must go beyond the boats and can and should also devote itself to the platforms necessary for these areas, as well as benefit from the increase in the movement of our ports. Mr. Jorge Machado asked when the investments will be realized, particularly those of Viana do Castelo. Mr. Member, when, in December 2016, in Sines, and more recently in Viana do Castelo, I presented the plan to increase the competitiveness of the ports, I presented it with a timetable, which is unpublished in Portugal. I presented the projects, presented the estimates of job creation and costs and also presented the timetables. Therefore, right now, the projects of Viana do Castelo, which pass precisely by deepening the channel that will enhance the naval industry in Viana do Castelo, are fulfilling the deadlines. This is currently being prepared a previous study and an environmental impact study, which will allow us to begin the first work at the beginning of next year. You know, honourable Member, there is one thing this government is asking: it is doing everything according to the law and in accordance with the proper way to do it and, for that, we have to have environmental impact studies, we have to have projects; when we have them we will launch international public competitions and we will fulfill our timetables. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issues that have been raised — and well — about the resources available in public services, particularly in DGRM, I must say, Mr Matias, that the tenders are currently being drawn up. In fact, there was the identification of the people who are needed, the identification of the funds that are necessary, the authorization of the Ministry of Finance and, at the moment, there are indeed competitions for people to enter. however, there is still no possibility to fully meet the needs of frames in the area of the sea. We have therefore made partnerships and established protocols with other areas of the State, in particular with DGAM ( Directorate-General of the Maritime Authority ) and with the National Maritime Authority, which enables us to use the resources of these entities to provide services that are absolutely necessary and irrevocable in this area. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u120	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u121	To that end, we are doing what is necessary, ensuring funding, ensuring public investment, ensuring the sustainability of the system, ensuring that our action with the European Commission is what is needed and has proved to be the right one to achieve more resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u122	For an intervention, Mr Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The strong growth of the economy to which we witness every day, by the disclosure of numerous indicators of suspicious entities, would not be possible without the contribution given by national production, which largely departs the fixed idea that Portugal is only a country of services, without the tangible goods merit the necessary relevance to which they are entitled. in the euro area, GDP recorded a homologous change of 1, 7% in the first quarter of 2017, slowing down, since in the previous quarter the variation had been 1, 8 %. On the other hand, Portugal recorded a growth in GDP of 2, 8 % in the first quarter of 2017, largely exceeding 2 % in the fourth quarter of 2016. The economic activity indicator increased in March as well as the economic climate indicator already available until April. in relation to the gross fixed capital formation indicator, stabilized, after an expressive upward trajectory initiated in June 2016. The growth that has been revealed today allows us to translate into the healthy performance of national production. The components of transport materials and machinery and equipment have now made such a contribution essential for macroeconomic indicators to be as positive as they are. Also in the construction component the data are encouraging and allow us to fully address the good results of the national economy. Exports of goods accelerated in March, with a homologous variation of 17, 1 % growing well above imports. Admitting economic activity in the perspective of production, industry and services turnover indices and the production index of construction and public works accelerated in March, and the stabilization of industrial production was also observed. There is no way to deny it: Portugal has re-economy. But let's talk about people, talk about Portuguese. in the first quarter of 2017, the unemployment rate was 10, 1 % lower than 0, 4 percentage points at the rate recorded in the previous quarter and exceptionally lower than in the same period. Employment has increased significantly from 1, 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2016 to 3, 2 %, which is even more significant considering the increase in the active population. We are far away from other close times, in which as unemployment increased the active population dropped dramatically, pushed out of a country that considered it indispensable. There is no way to deny it: Portugal has again had an economy, with companies producing more, exporting more and creating more jobs. Portugal grew twice the rate of the euro area in the first quarter — the largest growth in the last decade. According to data from Banco de Portugal, economic activity continues to accelerate very rapidly in the second quarter of 2017. As a result of these results, the climate of trust allows the issuance of debt with minimum interest rates and the planned anticipation of debt payments. Also and only with the result of these results has it been possible to exit the excessive deficit procedure, desired the proper functioning of the national economy and the fulfilment of the budgetary targets. What can be said today, given that we have remarkable exports in the metal products sector, in the chemicals sector and in the automotive industry sector? What can be said today is that public policies, such as the Capitalization Programme, the Reindustrialization Plan and Industry 4.0, have yielded and produced results. What we can say today is that we have finances like we had and how we intend to have, but above all, we are going to have an economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u124	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to end this debate. Mr João Oliveira has the floor to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we addressed this question to the Government focused on the conditions for the development of national production, we did so with the exact notion that we were not triggering a discussion of context, but, on the contrary, we were bringing the debate, in this Assembly of the Republic, a discussion of strategic relevance to the future of the country, a discussion of strategic relevance because we are truly discussing the resolution of the structural problems of the economy, national development, the distribution of wealth and social justice that we want for the future of our country. As we have said — and we have repeated — the main deficit in the country is the productive deficit. It was the destruction of our national production and our productive sectors that led the country to the deficits that are known, to external dependence, to indebtedness, which brought to our country levels of unemployment, poverty and emigration that have so dramatically marked the reality of our national life and that still continue to mark the concerns of the Portuguese. That is why we have brought this discussion with the idea that Portugal can get rid of these problems and that it can solve them if we face the constraints that prevent the development of the country and actually respond to the need for an economic policy to support national production, the creation of wealth and the creation of employment. But Portugal needs, at the same time, to produce more to create more wealth and to distribute more fairly the wealth created. Therefore, we have not abstained from this debate the need to value the work and workers, to value their wages, to value the social functions of the State, to value a more appropriate response to the social problems that the country faces, because this way too can achieve fairer levels of distribution of wealth created in our country. during the debate, there were those who brought a perspective, we would say already tested and denied by reality, from attachment to the solutions that it is with cuts in rights, with cuts in wages, with cuts in working conditions and living conditions of the Portuguese that some economic and social problems of the country can be solved. Not only the reality of today's rejection of these old theses, as confirmed by the fact that it is precisely the opposite, i.e. that it is because of the valuing of work and workers and that it is because of the valorisation of national production that we can respond to the economic and social problems that we have before us. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is no less true that, in need of more national production, Portugal needs to make better use of its productive resources and potential, and Portugal needs to replace imports by national production, and Portugal needs a genuine economic policy of support for national production, Portugal also needs to overcome the constraints that have afflicted the country and national development. This economic policy of support for national production and better and fairer redistribution of wealth inevitably confronts the external constraints of the euro, the European Union's taxes, public and external debt and also the internal constraints of monopolistic groups on the national economy in the strategic sectors, but not only. It is necessary to break these constraints and overcome these obstacles to the dynamization of national production to ensure the sovereign development of our country. It is necessary to overcome the constraints of the euro which accentuate the country's structural deficits and its indebtedness, which make exports difficult and contribute to serious difficulties in key sectors of our industry and which determine a large part of the liquidation of productive economic activity over these years and also a large part of the loss of purchasing power and Portuguese income. It is necessary to overcome the constraints of the European Union's taxes which have liquidated our agricultural and agri-food production, which prevent the objective of food sovereignty and destroy sectors where our production is approaching self-sufficiency, as is the case with the dairy sector. It is necessary to overcome the constraints of the European Union's taxes which have led to the liquidation of our fishing fleet and which give national resources to the exploitation by the fishing fleet of the most powerful countries of the European Union. We also need to overcome the constraints of public debt by renegotiating debt and freeing the financial resources that the country needs to ensure the public investment necessary for the development of the country, the development and improvement of the quality of the social functions of the State, but also the investment necessary for the development of science, research and technology necessary for the strengthening of national productive capacity. We also need to overcome the constraints imposed by the large economic groups that dominate the national economy and the national strategic sectors, the large economic groups that prevent a credit policy appropriate to the conditions of small and medium-sized enterprises and national development, the large economic groups that prevent the reduction of energy prices and other production factors and which, by dominating the distribution sector, for example, crush the conditions of agricultural and agricultural production. Only with the liberation of the country of these existing constraints will it be possible to ensure sustained economic growth, national development and the improvement of the living conditions of workers and the people. in industry, agriculture or fisheries and in so many other sectors of the national economy, we have numerous examples of the destruction to which right-wing policy has subjected our country in the last 40 years, but we also have examples of the national production that resists and that it is necessary to support, not only because it depends on the survival of thousands of Portuguese, often from entire communities, but also because it depends on the sovereign development of the country based on the use of our own resources and potential.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u126	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u127	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is where we should seek the key to an economic policy that ensures national development and breaks with the external dependence of a policy capable of ensuring the creation of wealth and employment in a sustained way and of distributing wealth more fairly. What we have brought to this debate is a proposal for a future for the country, it is a proposal for a policy to defend production, full employment, development rights and sovereignty, in a democracy understood in its entirety as a political, economic, social and cultural democracy. It is because of this proposal for an alternative policy that we will continue to beat ourselves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u128	On behalf of the Government, and to close the debate, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by thanking the Portuguese Communist Party for the initiative of this debate, which was another contribution to highlight, before the Portuguese, that the reversal of the political cycle caused an investment in the economic cycle that the country was experiencing. As the Minister for Economic Affairs has said here, Portugal is exporting more, creating more jobs, with the largest economic growth in the last decade and with less deficit. Agriculture and the sea, as has just been demonstrated by the Minister of the Sea, are contributing to the development of the country by increasing production, increasing exports and replacing imports. Let me say that only for agriculture, the income of farmers from 2016 to 2015 increased by 13 % and the productivity of agriculture if we compare 2000 to 2016 — I remind you that 2016 was a bad agricultural year and that 2000 was a good agricultural year — increased by 52 % during that period and, as regards the value of the production for fruit crops, the increase was 32 %. The vegetables grew 37 %, the milk, unfortunately, experienced a negative period that began during the last phase of the previous government and which only now begins to invert, i.e., has experienced a decrease of 4,5 %. But cattle increased by 50 %, by 10 %, by 28 % birds and by 256 % olive oil. at the same time, the investment in this period increased by 25 % and, as regards exports, agricultural products increased by 383 %, agro-industry products increased by 203 % and the agri-food weight in exports increased from 5, 4 % to 8, 5 %, i.e. increased by 57 % and the agro-forestry complex was 48 %. To give you some examples, with regard to olive oil, we have spent over the last 16 years on a deficit of EUR 58 million for a surplus of EUR 170 million. Production grew four times, exports multiplied by three, Portugal became the fourth world exporter and the seventh world producer. Another curiosity: only the red fruit sector has experienced an impressive increase. For example, 43 % of the raspberry currently consumed on the European market is produced in Portugal. Therefore, the sector knows a good cycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I should like to conclude by saying — as I did not have a chance, given the short time that I was given to answer the many questions of the honourable Members. Members—who, for example with regard to the decree-law on the labelling of milk and milk products, is concluded and only waits for the promulgation of Mr President of the Republic to come into force. The Action Plan of the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture is already under discussion within the Council of Ministers. We will start, as I said, the preparation of the status of small family farming, and I would also like to announce here that we will strengthen VITIS, the Support Scheme for the Restructuring and Reconstruction of Wines, by more than EUR 40 million this year, which will allow us to consider all the candidatures that have been submitted, that of the small, the medium and the large farmers. With more than two thirds of the agriculture programme already completed, this sector wants to make a major contribution to the increase in national production, placing on the increase of the competitiveness of the sector, continuing to apply more rapidly and effectively Community funds, continuing to bet on the regadio, through the National Regadio Plan, which will include about 90 000 h, in the discrimination of small family farming, in forest reform, in research, in innovation and in the enhancement of human resources. In short, agriculture is increasingly asserting itself as a rising sector in Portugal, a sector that wants to contribute to the development of the country and a sector that is aware that it has the conditions to carry out this mission and will accomplish it more and more in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u130	Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, we have reached the end of the appeal to the Government, presented by the CFP, focusing on the conditions for the development of national production. of the second item on our agenda is resolution No 46 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the EFTA States SADC, of the other part, signed in Kasane on 16 June 2016. We therefore bid farewell to the members of the Government here present. In the meantime, Mr. Secretary will report on the file he has entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u131	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 523 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishment of a single national register and ACS ( economic activity code ) specific to the fun traveling economic activity called « Entertainment Itinerant Activity » ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 524 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August, clarifying the scheme for the authorisation of the operation of local housing establishments ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission and draft resolution No 884 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include a representative of the Portuguese Broadcasting Association in the National Council for Culture ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 12. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are now going to enter the voting period, and I therefore ask the services to proceed with the verification of the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 206 presences, to which are added 4 ( PS MPs André Pinote Batista, Norberto Patinho and Nuno Sá and PSD Member Marco António Costa ), making 210 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with vote No 317 / XIIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Gilberto Ferraz ( PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u133	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last Friday died in London, 83 years old, journalist and writer Gilberto Ferraz, an important figure of the Portuguese community resident in the British capital. Natural Tonda, in Tondela, where he was born on February 9, 1934, Gilberto Ferraz moved to London in 1965, after receiving an invitation to work in the Portuguese section of the BBC, where he remained for more than three decades. in this radio station he was the founder and the head of the Department of Portuguese Language Audience Studies, which included the Brazilian section and had the mission to evaluate the reactions of the listeners of the BBC World Service. Gilberto Ferraz has played a decisive role in the dissemination of information to the Portuguese community and in the promotion of the rights of Portuguese living in the United Kingdom over the years. For four years he was president of the Association of Broadcasting Staff, becoming even the first non-British to occupy this prominent place. in the late 1970s it became the correspondent of some Portuguese communication bodies, notably the Newspaper and later also the TSF radio and, sporadically, the RTP. Gilberto Ferraz had an active civic and political life, involving himself in the defence of the causes that he understood to be in the interest of Portugal and the Portuguese, for example, dynamizing a petition against the end of the vote by correspondence of residents abroad who gathered 5533 signatures and ended up being debated in the Assembly of the Republic, contributing to the abandonment of the bill. His important and dedicated work as correspondent in the United Kingdom deserved thanks with the Order of Merit of the Portuguese Republic, as a recognition of the high services provided to journalism. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Gilberto Ferraz and addresses his family, his friends and the Portuguese community living in London, his feelings more".
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u134	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask the Secretary to proceed with the reading of vote No 318/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Commander Valentim Morais ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u135	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Commander Valentim Morais, founder of the newspaper The Portuguese World, the most widely circulated Portuguese weekly in the world, died last May 20th, in Lisbon, at 86 years of age. Valentim Gonçalves Morais was born on September 4, 1930 in the village of Grandpa, in Oliveira do Hospital. He came to Lisbon still very young and, in the 1960s, he acquired a small graphic, Mirandela, and in a few years, he managed to transform it into a graphic company with the world's largest newspaper turnover. As highlighted by the Portuguese World, the Mirandela Graph came to employ more than 500 employees in the 1980s and to print weekly more than 200 publications, including the largest in the country. In January 1970, Valentim Morais founded with Father Vítor Melícias the newspaper The Emigrant / Portuguese World under the motto ‘ Acts Serving ’ because, in his view, more than one newspaper was a ‘ service to the Portuguese who left Portugal to live in the harshest conditions of life and in an almost absolute cultural and informative abandonment. ’ Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Valentim Morais and addresses to his family and friends his most heartfelt feelings. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u136	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the votes that have just been read, let us keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 46 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the EFTA States SADC ( Economic Partnership Agreement of the Southern African Development Community ), of the other part, signed in Kasane on 16 June 2016. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we will now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Education and Science, on Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August 2016, which approves a doctoral recruitment scheme to stimulate scientific and technological employment in all areas of knowledge[ Parliamentary assessments n. 23 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE) and 25 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] With regard to this vote, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP and Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS informed the Bureau that they wish to make oral statements at the end of the votes. Let us now vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the drafts of lein. ( a ) — Review of Law No 28 / 98 of 26 June approving the Legal Scheme for the Labour Contract of the Sport Practitioner and the Sport Training Contract ( PSD ) and 297 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the General Law on Sports Work and Sport Training ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when someone from the Bureau is speaking, please don't call the Bureau, because we are not paying attention and it is therefore an effort that is detrimental to the Members who are trying and to us who are bothering us. We shall now vote on the application submitted by the PS, requesting the final drafting waiver and the reduction to 1 day of the deadline provided for in Article 157 ( 1 ). the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, concerning the drafts of lein. ( a ) — Review of Law No 28 / 98 of 26 June approving the Legal Scheme for the Labour Contract of the Sport Practitioner and the Sport Training Contract ( PSD ) and 297 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the General Law on Sports Work and Sport Training ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask the Secretary to read out an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u137	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juízo Central Criminal de Lisboa - Case 3902 / 2013, the Subcommittee on Ethics of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Deputies José Cesario ( PSD ), Filipe Lobo d’Ávila and João Pinho de Almeida ( CDS-PP ) to provide written testimony within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u138	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos to proceed with her statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, firstly, at this moment, and after a long process and a very thorough discussion on the regime of doctoral recruitment presented by the Government, to welcome the action, intervention and struggle of post-doctoral fellows, their representative structures, all fellows in the defence of their rights and also in the defence of the development of the national scientific and technological system. [[PCP applause.]] If we arrive here today very much, we must in fact respond to the tireless intervention of these researchers who deserve and must be recognised and duly valued. It was possible to include in this diploma a set of amendments that substantially improve it and result from the proposal, contributions and intervention of the CFP. First, the equalization of the level of remuneration to that of the career of scientific research, to be achieved progressively, starting at the same level in the index 33 of the single rate of remuneration, thus ensuring that there is no loss of monthly net income. It is important to make it clear that this is the starting income, the starting index, the institutions can contract for indices higher than that. The diploma determined a remuneration index that meant loss of monthly remuneration for these researchers, which was, at least, unacceptable, the prospect of opening the competitive procedure for the integration of contractors into the career of scientific research, in which the length of service of these researchers already counts for this same integration, and the extension of the funding of the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) during the duration of the contract of work, instead of financing only in the first three years. This is a process that we wanted here to value, taking into account these changes and bearing in mind...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u140	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u141	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, this process bear in mind that the effective fight against precariousness passes through the integration of these workers into the career of scientific research. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u142	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u143	The next step is the struggle for the opening of the competitions and the struggle for the integration of these workers into the career,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u144	You've outlived your time. You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u145	...because it is definitely here that precarious issues are resolved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u146	For a final oral vote, which must be requested at the time of the vote, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u147	Mr President: We have just adopted the final text on the parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August which approves the doctoral recruitment scheme to stimulate scientific and technological employment in all areas of knowledge. The law will confirm the importance of the Decree-Law that it was a giant step taken by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education to end false pockets and treat them as scientific workers with contracts with all the rights of contracts, rights, that the scholarships did not have. The competitions that will be opened, to hire many of the current post-doctoral scholarships, will be a very important step in combating the precariousness of researchers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS Parliamentary Group has endeavoured to strengthen its diploma in order to ensure that these contracts are made in access to careers. It was clear that there can be no successive series of contracts outside the career and that six years of contracts guarantee competitions for career access. The PS has set this objective here since the first debate in plenary on these parliamentary assessments. In terms of remuneration, negotiation within the parliamentary majority has allowed us to go beyond our initial objectives. We wanted to ensure that no pocket would lose annual income with the contract, we ended up ensuring an increase that will cover many. The PS also had the concern to give the institutions the necessary conditions to apply this law, because this is important for its success, for the success of the law and for the success of the institutions. For example, by facilitating the conjugation of research activity with teacher activity within the framework of their careers. There was only one negative note in this process. For many verbal pirouettes...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u148	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u149	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, for many verbal pirouettes the PSD has ended up doing,... [[PSD Deputies Duarte Filipe Marques]] ... the PSD was the only party that did not present a single word of proposal to contribute to this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u150	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u151	It stays in their consciousness, but we get it. We inherited this situation from the previous government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u152	Please conclude, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u153	...and now they didn't want to do anything to improve and correct it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u154	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-24.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will take place on 1 June, beginning at 3 p.m., and will have on the agenda the discussion, in general, of draft law No 529 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for the individual and paid passenger transport activity on decharacterised vehicles from the electronic platform ( TIRPE ) ( PSD ), PSD marking, and also regimental votes at the end of the debate. I wish good parliamentary days for the PS Parliamentary Group and a good weekend for all. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 55 minutes.]]
