ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Before we move on to the first item on the agenda, which is an urgent debate required by the CFP Parliamentary Group on public debt, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to take account of the dossier. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Bill No. 463 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment of the Legal Regime of Academic Degrees and Degrees of Higher Education ( fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 74 / 2006 of 24 March 2006 ) ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and draft resolutions No 761 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the partial dispensation of social security contributions to producers of cow's milk ( PS ), 763 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Removal of asbestos fibrosis plates at El-Rei D. Manuel I school in Alcochete ( BE ), and 764 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government dynamize the work of the National Commission for the Coordination and Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Plan for Animal Genetic Resources ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Let us then initiate the urgent debate required by the CFP on public debt. To open the debate, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The problem of public debt cannot be erased under the carpet, it cannot be realised that the problem does not exist or will be resolved by itself. It is a very serious problem that profoundly conditions the present and future of our country. What could be done if Portugal could have more than EUR 8 billion that are currently channelled to the payment of annual public debt interest? How many national problems could they have an adequate response? How many doctors and nurses could be hired? How many schools and hospitals could be built? What social support could the most disadvantaged be strengthened? How many taxes on labour income and consumption could be reduced? What support could be channelled to micro and small enterprises and to the recovery of productive sectors? We all know the answer to these questions. Unfortunately, these EUR 8 billion are not available to solve national problems. The harsh reality is that they are swallowed by public debt interest, depriving us of the resources that we need so desperately for the economic and social development of our country. It cannot be fuelled by the dangerous illusion that the debt problem is controlled and that the multiple external factors that condition its evolution will always have a favorable development. Can anyone ensure that our country will not again be subjected to a speculative attack that further aggravates the public debt problem? Oh, my God! Can anyone ensure that market interest rates do not trigger again, leading to even greater debt growth? Oh, my God! Don't! Of course not! Portugal continues today, as in the past, vulnerable to the whims of the markets and to the devastating action of speculators and auxiliaries. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: The CFP has made a decisive contribution to the debate on public debt. Six years ago, on 5 April 2011, we presented to the Portuguese people a proposal for its resolution through the renegotiation of deadlines, interest and amounts. at that time, the advocates of the interests of the creditors insisted, unpublishedly, to attribute the huge dimension of public debt to alleged excessive spending of the State, finding there proof that the workers and the Portuguese people lived above their possibilities. Even today, some, like the President of the Eurogroup, do not hesitate to insult the Portuguese to defend this mystification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u6	No, the Portuguese workers and people did not live or live above their possibilities. The causes for the colossal dimension of public debt are other: the abandonment of the productive apparatus, the de-protection of the internal market, privatization, the financing of the economy, the promotion of large capital and financial speculation and, of course, integration into the euro. The proposal of the CFP for the renegotiation of public debt, combined with other measures aimed at economic growth, job creation and the defence of national sovereignty, tackled the problem by root, constituting an alternative to the popular troika programme. Unfortunately, the PCP proposal was rejected and the country was led to disaster by the troika program, so diligently applied by the previous PSD Government / CDS. Portugal lost much because it did not start the debt renegotiation process in 2011 as proposed by the PCP, but will lose much more if it insists on not moving forward with that process. The problem of debt persists and has dramatic consequences for our country. Public debt remains at 130 % of GDP, interest paid annually remains above EUR 8 billion, the debt cap continues to strangle the country and without a renegotiation solution debt will continue to hinder economic and social development for many decades. We remember that successive governments, as well as several international bodies, in their projections on the evolution of public debt, have said that debt reduction to sustainable values would take decades. During the Troika programme, the unrealistic discourse on sustainability of Portuguese public debt pointed to 2035 as the year in which debt would fall below 60 % of GDP. More recently, during the discussion of the State Budget for 2016, the current government updated these projections, which already pointed to the long year of 2055. In the face of these projections, if there were any doubts, they would be dissipated: Portuguese public debt is unsustainable and unsustainable. To deny this evidence is to condemn the country, for decades, to a path of economic development and impoverishment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: The resolution of the debt problem is a national imperative and requires decisive action. The CFP proposes the setting up of a possible public and external debt assessment committee in the Assembly of the Republic. A committee which, regardless of the position of each parliamentary group on the solution to the debt problem, will provide an appropriate institutional framework for a problem of great relevance to the present and future of our country. A committee that will allow to analyse the root causes of the debt problem, make the diagnosis of the current situation and future evolution of debt and, of course, analyze solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u8	Briefly, the CFP will also present a legislative initiative on debt, the euro and the bank. Starting from a draft resolution presented in 2014 and deepened in the context of an extended public discussion that we are promoting throughout the country, we will present a tripartite and integrated proposal for debt renegotiation, for the release of submission to the euro and for the resumption of public control of the bank, a proposal that, to be implemented, would pave the way for the realization of a sovereign and sustainable project of economic growth and social development.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u9	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. The seriousness of the structural problems of the country, including debt, calls on all of us to a broad and in-depth debate. The CFP, with its analysis and reflection and its proposals, will not lack this debate. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u11	For an opening intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, Álvaro Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject we are bringing here today has been widely discussed in Portuguese society in recent years. The sovereign debt crisis placed Portugal in the world's holofotes, but most importantly it was that the Portuguese had demanded an increased financial and social effort. The huge increase in taxes, announced in 2012, the subsequent increase in unemployment and economic recession were very palpable for all Portuguese. The economic policy of the Government is conducted with complete respect for the commitments which the country has made in the past and which it will honour, both today and in the future. However, because there is an alternative to past policies, as the fiscal and economic results of 2016 show, the management of public debt, while being demanding, will be done in a more sustainable economic and social context. To this end, it is necessary to meet three essential conditions: a responsible budgetary policy; to increase real and nominal economic growth; and to ensure better financing conditions. With regard to budgetary policy, the new course chosen by the 21st Government is proving to be a better and more credible alternative. As Mr Finance said in Parliament's committee, the government deficit in 2016 will not exceed 2,1 % of GDP. The Government will keep its word, against the expectations and early announcements of a disaster. In addition, the State's primary expenditure is lower than its revenue. In other words, the State can not only finance its basic functions with its own revenue, such as saving. The resulting primary surplus makes it possible to finance a substantial part of the debt interest. In 2016, this primary surplus will be set at 2, 3 % of GDP and in 2017 the European Commission estimates that it will be the highest in the euro area. In addition to this, in the second instance, that of economic growth, the results are also in the right direction. In 2016, we had more employment ( a growth of 2, 4 % in the private sector at the end of the year ), less unemployment ( we closed the year with an unemployment rate of 10, 2 % ), more remuneration ( a rise of 5 % in declared remuneration ), more sustainable and more turned enterprises into the external market ( greater market share gains) and a more growth-friendly tax burden ( a clear option for indirect taxation, reducing GDP taxes by 25, 4 % in 2015 to 25 % in 2016. That is, we are giving better conditions to businesses and workers to honour their country's commitments. Economic projections for 2017 have been reviewed by all institutions. The acceleration observed during 2. the 2016 semester will have a positive effect on economic growth, which will make Portuguese public debt more sustainable. Finally, the third pillar of the sustainability of public debt is the financing conditions. Interest rates are endogenous to the structural elements of the economies. The results achieved in 2016 on the fiscal and economic front will reflect-CL- will be in better conditions of market access. In 2015 and 2016, Portugal issued a new debt at a cost below the average of the debt stock, which allowed the average financing cost to be lowered by 3, 6 % in 2014 to 3, 2 % in 2016. In parallel, the Government, through the IGCP ( Institute of Treasury Management and Public Credit ), is following a responsible financing policy. The maturity of the debt will grow from 6, 9 years in 2013 to 8, 4 years at the end of 2017. At the same time, the sources of funding have diversified from three instruments to five, as well as the range of investors concerned. In addition, the strengthening of banking union, the strengthening of the budgetary pillar in European policy and the strengthened role that the ECB's monetary policy ( European Central Bank ) has also had are factors that will contribute to the sustainability of Portuguese public debt. The 21st Government will continue to implement economic policies that promote inclusive economic growth, a growth that respects the contribution of all and honours the commitments undertaken internally and externally. This is the way of credibility and trust. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u13	I stress that this was the first intervention made by Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, Álvaro Novo, as a member of the Government. As such, I wish you happiness at all levels. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into the first round of the debate. For an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Debt is an important problem that needs to be tackled with responsibility and prudence. And today's debate should serve to that end, to understand what actions we have to promote and what we must reject, under the penalty of causing even more problems and making the situation of families worse. The weight of Portuguese debt, private and public, is clearly excessive. Only public debt represents 1, 3 times the income of the entire country for a whole year, which implies more taxes for all, more difficulties in financing for companies and more complications for the financial sector, which is still very exposed to public debt. It's just that the government is playing lottery with our future. The government's action on debt, as in others, is the reflection of an immediate policy, without looking at the consequences for the future, without vision for the country in the long term. Unfortunately, the relationship of the PS government with debt is like that film in which the protagonist wakes up every day to live the same day exactly the same way. The movie's funny, the PS isn't! With PS the Portuguese people wake up every day to see the same film: more debt, more risk, less prudence! [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u15	It's the day of shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u16	Since this government entered into office, debt has increased: only in 2016 was 8000 million more. The cost of debt also increased: in 2017, the debt issue rate rose by more than 50 % compared to 2015, is the equivalent of a family, which has a payment of 1000 € to the bank, to pay 1500 €. More: each new debt issue is not only more expensive as it has shorter maturity, and this means that investors, to lend us money for less time, ask for higher interest rates. The cost of debt, vis-à-vis other European countries, has also increased. The difference in the interest rate vis-à-vis Germany is at present 3, 75 percentage points in Portugal, when in most other countries it has come down and is by far the highest value in the whole of Europe. This is indeed the measure of the risk of Portuguese debt and shows well that it is a national problem, current and resulting from direct action by the government and the parties that support it. What confidence does the Government transmit to families, savers and investors when it buys Portuguese debt at the moment? When growth was far below expected and worse than in the previous year, that confidence, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? When the debt goes up instead of coming down, what confidence? When structural reforms will be stopped or reversed, what confidence? When the structural balance ceased to improve, what confidence? And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what confidence do you have with this unilateral debt restructuring conversation? The left ones apologize to the ECB ( European Central Bank ). But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, surely, if we are serious, the issue is the opposite. That is, what we are concerned about or, better, what we should be concerned about is where these rates would now be if there were not the ECB. But this doesn't concern the PS. What would be the answer responsible for controlling the debt? It would effectively consolidate public finances, increase the deadline and reduce traded interest and replace more expensive debt by cheaper debt. This is all that the previous government has successfully proved. By the way, the renegotiation of the controlled and responsible debt that we did saved the Portuguese more than EUR 2 million of interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u17	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u18	Unfortunately, the Government's response to this serious problem is the opposite of what is needed. It has already been noted that the reduction of the deficit in 2016 was at the expense of temporary measures, a brutal cut in public investment and, as the European Commission said, without structural consolidation. You call that a success! Is this what you want to keep for the next few years? As debt increases, growth and investment slow down and structural reforms are reversed. How can investors have confidence? That's why interest rates are increasing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u20	While this management is united, from the radical PS to the Block, and threatens, in a completely irresponsible way, with debt restructuring, which is a smooth way to say that they want to declare or enter into non-compliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u21	Be respectful!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u22	And with that, what message is going on to thousands of Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u23	Madam Member, I just want to inform you that you can continue, but from now on the time you use will discount the available time allocated to the PSD for the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u24	Thank you, Mr. President, I will finish. What will you tell the thousands of Portuguese who have invested their savings in public debt and bank depositors who are exposed to that debt? Only in 2016, the Portuguese State sold EUR 7 billion in debt to Portuguese families, which is in the hands of workers, pensioners and small savers. What message do you want to pass on to these savers here and today? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u25	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The debate today is very important and it is about a national problem that should mobilise all parties sitting in this Assembly of the Republic. As already mentioned, Portugal is one of the countries where public debt is higher and is the country of the European Union where debt interest is higher. This means that Portuguese are paying taxes not only to finance health and education but also to pay interest to external creditors. Well, we must understand very well the reason for this public debt, the internal and external factors that explain it and these are of general knowledge: a weak economic growth in the last decade, a poor architecture of economic and monetary union, prolonged excessive deficits over time, needs of the financial sector, of the bank in particular, and needs of the business sector. We know why public debt has grown and we also know that it depends on debt interest and sovereign's financial rating from rating agencies. These interests depend, in order to speak seriously: a political stability, which we guarantee in this governance of the PS supported by the parties on their left; and a path of fiscal consolidation, and it is always worth remembering that this year we will have the lowest deficit in democracy. Does the PSD and Mrs Inês Domingos want to convince us that, in the past, extraordinary measures have not been taken to reduce the budget deficit? Oh, my God! Of course they did! Moreover, this year the extraordinary measures have positively affected the deficit. Therefore, it is a success of this government's policy not only fiscal consolidation in 2016 as I can guarantee - if we exclude the amount of capitalisation of the General Deposit Box, the deficit will also be of the lowest in democracy. We therefore guarantee that the PS Government guarantees political stability and fiscal consolidation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have historical confidence levels for consumers and businesses. Now, there are things that we have, in fact, also come from the past, and therefore I will not discuss, for example, the stock of high debt, an economic growth rate that is still much lower than the desired one and above all a policy for the purchase of assets from the European Central Bank. Let us be serious in the debate. Much of the progress in debt interest has to do with the European Central Bank's policy of purchasing assets. And it is good to say and record the following : Portugal is today the most indebted countries which are less benefiting from the European Central Bank's asset purchase programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Just to give you an example and to keep things on record: the Banco de Portugal can buy at most one sixth of the total Portuguese public debt and the Banco de Italy — and Italy has the same ratio as the public debt we have — it can buy up to 25% of the Italian public debt. Why? For a very simple reason: much of the Italian public debt is in medium- and long-term bonds, when in the Portuguese case less than half of the public debt is entitled to medium- and long-term bonds. This means that there is something that needs to be done at national and European level. The Socialist Party's strategy on public debt is clear. in the Government programme you can read, and I quote: '(...) all opportunities should be explored for, in a cooperative manner between States and institutions, reducing the burden of debt service in national budgets. Do not keep on seeking. ” We know exactly what we have to do. in the internal field, we want to promote employment growth, because only with growth and employment will we have sustainable public finances. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We want to improve the international reputation of the country and the historical deficits, which we had in 2016 and which we will have in 2017, so that they contribute to improve that reputation, which does not change overnight, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, these things take time to reach the markets. We want to solve, and we are doing so - the problems of the financial system - we solve the problem of BANIF, we are selling the New Bank and we are going to recapitalize the General Deposit Box, something that the PSD/CDS government has not done. Finally, let us, as Mr Secretary of State has already said, closely monitor the public business sector, which is critical to public debt. But it is not only in the domestic field that our intervention must be made. in the international field, obviously we cannot vote in the next Chancellor of Germany...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u27	Mr President, I inform you that from now on the time you use will be discounted in the time allocated to the PS in the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. As I was saying in the international field, we cannot vote in Germany's next chancellor, but we can vote so that Mr Dijsselbloem will not be again and will not continue to be the President of the Eurogroup. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we can work to build alliances in the European multilateral framework. First, we need to reduce interest rates with better management of public debt and better management of state treasury. Second, it is in the national interest to extend the ECB’s asset purchase programme by 2017 and to make Portugal more fair and favourable the eligibility conditions for the purchase of debt securities. Thirdly, there is a need for an extension of maturity and a reduction of interest to external official creditors, because that will only help reduce debt charges. In conclusion, I would say that the Socialist Party is determined to significantly reduce public debt charges, freeing the taxes of the Portuguese for what they should be used: improving the quality of life and the well-being of the Portuguese. The way ahead is not easy, but we are committed to pursuing it without hesitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u29	You now have the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the CFP on bringing this issue and on the proposal for a committee to be set up, because I think Parliament will be able to get to know all the work that has already been done in society on this subject, which goes from the 74 Manifesto, to several independent studies, to the contributions of the working group that the Left Block maintains with the PS and with the Government and which will soon be known. I believe that all these contributions are useful to Parliament and they all have one point in common, they all share the recognition of evidence, that public debt is not sustainable in the long term and that its stock at the moment is an obstacle to the country's economic recovery. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when we are dealing with something as serious as public debt, it is not worth aligning with false moralisms about the causes of indebtedness, because those who are not led by prejudices or punitive temptations of Eurogroup presidents, for example, well know that the causes of debt are much more in financial speculation, are much more in the economic recession, are much more in the failures of the banks, are much more in the PPPs (public-private partnerships) than are in the sins of the « south lazys », which have done more than work and endure the consequences of austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u32	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to look at this problem seriously is not to deny its existence nor is to stir up potatoes, talking about small savers or holders of savings certificates. The Left Block has never proposed a restructuring of debt that restructures debt into savings certificates; on the contrary, it has always proposed the protection of small savers but not speculators, and that is a difference that is worth registering. Looking at this problem seriously is also recognizing its importance and responding to the problems that affect the country. And there are two problems affecting the country with public debt. The first is this : Portugal has the largest primary balance in Europe. The Portuguese State gives a profit greater than the German State, is 2, 5 % of the annual GDP. All this money, and even more one, is directly taken to pay public debt interest, which is also the highest in Europe and that every year they consume us more than all the profits that the State gives with all the taxes that are paid, deducting all the expenses that are paid. Therefore, it means that every year there is an entire SNS that goes directly to the payment of debt interest and abroad, which means that every year the country is deprived of resources that are essential to its development and growth. And this isn't just going to happen this year, not just next year, it's going to happen in the next 10 years, 20 years, conditioning for decades the country's chances to grow. And not only is the country delivering billions of euros necessary for its development to external markets that have speculated against its debt as it is always subject to speculative attacks or political changes by the ECB.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u33	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. From now on discount in the time of the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u34	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State for the Treasury, Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I think a responsible attitude towards the country is to offer solutions to the problems we have, to face the problems ahead and to accept a serious discussion, without popes and without ideological prejudices. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u35	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u36	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State of the Treasury, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Today is an interesting day for us to discuss debt. We have a very clear practical case about what this majority is managing debt: what happened with the General Deposit Box. Today, the General Deposit Box issued more expensive debt with a higher interest rate than that which was attributed to the loan in the time of the PSD government / CDS. Where are the Members, on this side of the parliamentary boards, who said that at that time that fee was going to question the balance sheet of the General Deposit Box? [[CDS-PP applause.]] A rate of 8, 5 % called into question the balance sheet of the General Deposit Box. What the ladies say. Members on a rate of 10, 75 %? What the ladies say, too. Members of the Left Block and of the PCP on the fact that now the revenue of this operation does not go to the Portuguese taxpayers, as it was in the time of the majority PSD / CDS, and go to what you call « butter funds »? So now an operation of these, made in Luxembourg, with the profit of 10, 75 % for the « abutre funds » no longer has any problem? We see very well what this majority is today talking about debt! [[CDS-PP applause.]] But we are going to the concrete issue in relation to the debate required by the CFP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the path presented by the Communist Party is a path of irresponsibility and populism, which we cannot follow. « In summary, the vision of the CFP leaves the Portuguese State in a disastrous situation(... ) It is a vision that we cannot accept in any way. » Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what I just mentioned is not more than what Mr Fernando Medina said in this House, a well-known member of the Socialist Party in 2012. And I can read the next line from the plenary session of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic to the Members. Members of the Socialist Party do not feel excluded. in the following row, you can read: ‘ [[P.S.'s applause.]] and, in the other line, you can read: " [[PCP protests.]] Do The time was, in fact, different! The Socialist Party took up its position and those who were not speaking beat palms and, in turn, those who were on the PCP bench protested. It was not the time for the farce of this debate! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u37	The CDS was less upset at the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u38	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that nothing has changed on the PS side, nor has anything changed on the PCP side. The CFP continues to be demagogy as it was and the Socialist Party continues to have the responsibility, it is recognised, of having an alternative path. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u39	But one thing has changed: you want to deceive the country, and that is unacceptable. Some want to fool the country! The Socialist Party turned to the center and pretended it was the PCP that changed, the PCP turned to the left and pretended it was the PS that changed. It's a lie! Nobody's changed! You continue to defend and have the same solution, which is zero! An empty speech of some who want a unilateral negotiation, which will never happen, and others who want consensus that cannot build. If there is an alternative path in Europe, if there is an alternative path in which Portugal is decisive, present results.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u40	Mr. João Almeida, from now on, the time to spend the most discount in the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u41	Mr. President, I will finish. Let the Socialist Party be able to tell us how you want to make this alternative path, but with transparency, that you will not be misled. Those who in the past presented draft resolutions with more than 20 points now propose a committee. Mrs. Members, at least have the frontier to assume that they maintain the positions and competence they had in the past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u43	Don't lose for the delay!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u44	...that is none, to alter the sense and cost that our public debt has. So far, with almost two years of government, your result is zero. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u45	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The former PSD/CDS Government used the reduction of public debt as a pretext for imposing a policy to exacerbate exploitation and impoverishment. This policy had dramatic consequences for the Portuguese people and resulted in even more marked growth in the country's indebtedness. In 2010, the year immediately prior to the application of the troika programme, public debt was 96 % of GDP ; in 2014 it was already 130 %. In 2010, the annual public debt interest charges amounted to EUR 5300 million ; in 2014, they had already reached EUR 8600 million, an increase of more than 60 %. It is evidence that the entire discourse of the PSD and the CDS around the reduction of public debt covers, and continues to cover, the objective of using it as a pretext to impose its policy of exploitation and impoverishment. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the problem of public debt persists and has dramatic consequences for the country. It is an illusion that, without attacking the structural causes of stagnation and blocking national development, where debt, the euro and the private bank can be continued indefinitely in the path of improved income and rights. This illusion can be revived when the results are momentarily better, but it does not cease to be a mere illusion. over these 16 months, the CFP has been analysing the debt problem with the government. Differences in the solution to this problem remain: the CFP advocates a renegotiation in interest, time and amount; the government opts for so-called'microsolutions', which can temporarily mitigate the problem but do not solve it. Substituting more expensive debt—such as that of the IMF—for cheaper debt may have a positive immediate effect, but reality shows that the small savings resulting from these current debt management operations are quickly cancelled by factors that Portugal does not control, such as the recent rise in interest rates. Other micro-solutions considered by the Government, such as the exchange of debt in the euro area, the reduction of interest rates of loans to the European Union, the establishment of equal financing conditions for euro area Member States or the return of interest payments to the ECB, are measures that depend on the agreement of the institutions of the European Union, the ECB or the euro area. Even if approved, these microsolutions were always accompanied by unacceptable impositions similar to those of the troika pact or those applied to Greece. A careful and critical look reveals the narrowness of this path, its limitations and the inevitable exhaustion of solutions built under such a fragile basis. in the background, the conclusion is simple: left-wing measures cannot be consolidated on right-wing structural policies. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, debt continues to hamper the country's economic and social development. Microsolutions do not allow a problem of this size to be solved remotely.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u47	Mr Deputy, from now on, the time to use discount in the time of the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u48	Portugal must be freed from the trap and from the bond of debt. And this calls for decisive action to renegotiate public debt, such as that proposed by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u49	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was not surprising that we heard the PSD announce, as if it were a great novelty, that public debt increased in 2016. Well, it's increased, Mr. Deputies. It increased in 2016, increased in 2015, increased in 2014, increased in 2013, and out there. It's always been getting bigger. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] Mr President, against facts and numbers, there are no arguments. We have also heard an intervention — which is not yet new — that has sought to associate the renegotiation of the debt with the « we do not pay ». It wasn't anything new, too. After all this time, after all these years, looking at the results of the stubbornness of not wanting to renegotiate debt, I understand that it would be fair and appropriate to ask what will most happen to the Portuguese to definitely the parties that oppose the renegotiation of debt realize that the only way to pay is to proceed with their renegotiation. How much more poverty will be required, how many more failures of small businesses will have to occur, how many more sacrifices will be required so that the parties that oppose the renegotiation understand that it represents the only way to pay it? Oh, my God! In fact, those who refuse to consider renegotiation well can make the rounds they want and make use of maneuvers that understand that they cannot deny an absolutely unequivocal truth: there is no people who can afford to pay debts if they do not create wealth. Without creating wealth, there is no way to pay debts, neither this nor any other. The only way to create wealth is through production. Now, in order to have production, to make our economy move, to create jobs, a quality public investment is necessary. Now they tell us this: "Yes, but there is no money for the investment because the little that is all there is to pay the debt charges. » If there is no money to channel to our economy, then there is no production. If there is no production, there is no creation of wealth and if there is no creation of wealth, there is no way to pay debts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u52	We are thus faced with a clear finding: after all, those who defend 'we do not pay' are not those who defend the renegotiation of debt, those who refuse to consider it. This seems absolutely elementary to us. If there is no money to invest in the economy, since the money that is all there is to invest — invest, between quotes — in debt interest, then we will have to renegotiate the debt by creating a strike to invest in our economy and put the country to produce and thus create wealth to make it possible to pay the debt. That is, if we want to pay the debt, we will have to create the conditions for your payment and these conditions are not created without the renegotiation of the debt, because miracles will better not count on them. We do not count miracles, but we can continue to have comments like the one we heard from the President of the Eurogroup, who did not tire of encouraging austerity policies, which have resolved nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u53	Mr Deputy, from now on, the time to use discount in the time of the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u54	Of course, Mr. President. In fact, it has forgotten to mention the money that the countries of the South have wasted on the aid to the bank, including the Dutch bank, or the money that countries like Portugal have no longer received, because the European Union continues to allow our companies to place their headquarters in the Netherlands so as not to pay taxes in our country. That is what should have been said, but that is what is never mentioned. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u55	Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the questions which Mrs Inês Domingos has raised, I must say that the net Portuguese public debt fell in 2016, 0, 6 percentage points and this trend will, in fact, become more pronounced in 2017. The confidence of Portuguese people, according to the information that the National Institute of Statistics has recently revealed to us, is at the top of history, which means that Portuguese people have confidence in the policies that the government is implementing in the various areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD member Antonio Leitão Amaro's laughs.]] With regard to the structural balance, let me tell you that in 2015 the policies of the previous Government led to an increase in that balance. In 2016 — and we are still waiting for the final results — I can anticipate that it will certainly be positive. Therefore, in 2015 it was negative, in 2016 it was positive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Personally, I do not know any country that has no central bank and therefore what the ECB is doing is what a central bank should do, which is implementing a monetary policy that helps countries grow and fight unemployment. It is perfectly natural for the ECB to play this role and that it benefits Portugal, Spain and all euro area countries. With regard to debt settlement, and as a demonstration of the confidence that the Portuguese have in this government, the retail debt settlement was a huge success during 2016. The demand was three times greater than that of the IGCP ( Treasury Management Agency and Public Debt ). This documents that, in fact, the Portuguese were able to rely on the Portuguese Government. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, regarding her speech, I would like to make two comments. On the one hand, we cannot believe that small investors are independent of large investors, because Portugal does not have the capacity to finance itself solely on the basis of small investors. We must therefore respect all investors, so that we have a broader investor portfolio and thus achieve better results for the placement of Portuguese public debt. On the other hand, let me tell you that the percentage of debt in the hands of non-nationals fell from 85 % in 2009 to 35 % in 2016. That is to say, more nationals are currently holding Portuguese public debt, and it is important that this should be taken into account in these discussions on the sustainability of public debt. Mr. João Almeida, let me make a small comment on today's debt placement by the General Deposit Box. It was in fact in the 10, 75 % that announced, but this value is less than 12 % that the People's Bank of Spain has achieved, and this has a better rating than that of the General Deposit Box. This is the comparison that we really should make. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] in the Banco Popular, the interest rate was higher and that is the comparison we should make, because we are comparing bank with bank, on a market trip through private investors. And we actually achieved a better rate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u57	And is it also below what they published in the newspapers? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u58	... because we have a business plan approved by the European Commission, not as State aid, which creates confidence among investors. That's why we got a better rate than the People's Bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u59	Mr. Secretary of State may well have there the "name boy" João Galamba pulling for applause that is not safe!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u60	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has put the emphasis on growth and that is the policy of this government. We have put the emphasis on inclusive growth, growth for all, growth that has resulted in more employment, wages and lower tax burden, and thus we have succeeded in having the Portuguese, making the effort to pay public debt, making it easier, with more wages, with more income and more people to contribute to this commitment that the Portuguese State has before all investors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u61	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the second round, with their discounts. Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What was expected of this debate was that the government had measures to reduce debt and also measures leading to a recovery of confidence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u63	The 2 % deficit is a good measure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u64	... in order to reduce the interest rate. That « evil » government, « perverse », the government that led the country between 2011 and 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u65	Until he finally got the right name!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u66	... and kneeling impenitently before the troika took a set of important measures, liability measures, which lowered interest rates. This government and this majority, who make great proclamations, who take great ideas, who say that they achieve everything and something else, have done nothing strictly about it. A year and a half later, they did zero! And those responsible are the government, the PS, the Left Block and the PCP! Here, in front of everyone, they set up a great scene. And what does that scene tell us? Tell us that responsibility is nobody's. It was Mr Trump's long time ago when he won the elections, and it was also Brexit's. All of this justified the increase in interest rates. They justified the increase in interest rates with everything and something else, but what we have seen — and this is important — is that interest rates continue to rise.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u67	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u68	Many times we were told that the reason why interest rates rose was because there was a machinery that did not accept this government solution and called into question the proposals they presented. It is appropriate to say that, in this case, as in many others, defeat for this government is orphaned—no one assumes responsibility — and victory has many parents. Too bad you don't assume your responsibilities! I want to tell you very clearly that there is an absolutely crucial aspect here, which is the following: it was said by the Secretary of State of the Treasury that there was an increase in the exposure of Portuguese to public debt. This exposure which in 2009 was 35 % has now risen substantially. What's going on? When you talk about debt restructuring, you are talking about savings for Portuguese, workers, pensioners and depositors.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u69	It has already exceeded the time you had, Mr President, so I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u70	As it is, I want to know who you are going to ask for this restructuring. What we are seeing here today is a great irresponsibility. Discussing these issues is important,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u71	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u72	...but not with the irresponsibility with which you conduct the discussion. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u73	Mr João Paulo Correia, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS pretend that they did not govern the country between 2011 and 2015... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...and they hate to be confronted with their bad governance. However, this bad governance is not orphaned, has a father and has a mother: PSD and CDS! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Let us remember the numbers of this bad governance and what I said, for example, Álvaro Santos Pereira, about public debt in 2010 when it was 96%. at that time, Álvaro Santos Pereira said it was a record debt. In 2014, when he left the Government, the public debt was 130 %. It was the greatest self-criticism made by a member of the government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Let us also remember what public debt was in 2011 : it was 111 %. When PSD and CDS left the government it was 129 %. Let's see public debt in thousands of euros, in nominal values: between 2011 and 2015, it grew 35 billion euros. We will also see the net public debt, i.e. public debt minus deposits: in 2011 it was 102 %; in 2015 when you left the government, it was 121 %. We see net public debt in nominal values: EUR 181 billion in 2011 ; EUR 218 billion in 2015. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What contributed a lot to public debt was the failures of the previous government, namely the failures in the budgetary targets.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u75	It was bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u76	All budgetary targets have failed and it should be remembered that in 2011 the percentage of public debt provided for by the previous government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u77	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u78	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying in 2011, the proportion of public debt expected by the previous Government was 110 % and the public debt was 126 % ; in 2015, the former Government expected a public debt of 123 %, but failed the target because the public debt at the end of 2015 was 129 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u79	Yours has reached 133%!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u80	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to talk about hypocrisy. Hypocrisy was spent four years telling the Portuguese people that everything in the country had to be restructured: their pensions had to be restructured, their wages had to be restructured, their public services had to be restructured, their taxes had to be restructured, even the debts of the banks before the state had to be restructured. All contracts could be broken, the constitutional contract could be broken, there was only one that could never be broken, there was only one debt that could never be restructured, which was the public debt of the State with the large financial markets. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u82	We renegotiated the debt and renegotiated it responsibly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u83	This was the greatest hypocrisy of all: to tell the Portuguese citizens that they had to subject themselves to all sacrifices, that all contracts between the democratic rule of law and its citizens were of no value, because there was a contract that was worth more than the life of people, which was worth more than their rights and the constitutional state.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u84	That's not true! Lack of seriousness at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u85	Lack of seriousness, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not to assume or tell people that Portugal today only owes itself to pay interest on public debt. Don't be indebted to anything else, only be indebted to pay public debt interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u86	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u87	Lack of seriousness, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not to assume that there is a upward movement of interest due to the ECB, which is the same in Portugal and other countries. [[PSD protests.]] I am delighted to ask the Bureau to distribute three graphs where you can see that in Portugal and Italy the upward movement of interest is parallel; in Portugal and Spain the upward movement of interest is parallel; in Portugal and France the upward movement of interest is parallel.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u88	Look at the curve of the graph!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u89	There is an interest-up movement because the European Central Bank is reducing the quantitative relief measures ( EQ ) and there is prospects for an increase in interest. There is, therefore, a particular pressure on Portugal and this pressure is right: the European Central Bank is close to reaching the secondary purchase quota of Portuguese public debt and is not because it has bought more Portuguese public debt than in other countries. On the other hand, proportionally, it has purchased less Portuguese public debt vis-à-vis the European Central Bank's capital key than other countries. It happens that the troika's loan to Portugal counts within the limits of the purchase of public debt of the European Central Bank...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u90	And? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u91	...and, therefore, Portugal is close to reaching the quota, which leads to speculative movements and enormous pressure on Portugal. It is a lack of seriousness in the political debate that does not recognize this. Irresponsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to pretend that there is no problem and to walk here in debate to see who has more or less past responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u92	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u93	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that I believe that today a bad service has been provided to the country, because the Members of the Assembly of the Republic have diverted the debate to things that have nothing to do with, confused debates of the General Deposit Box with debates on public debt,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] ... threw responsibilities for the PS or the PSD of the past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u94	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u95	... instead of debating technical solutions to a problem that is the biggest economic problem facing the country, and this problem has not been solved, it has not been debated. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u96	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u97	That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, they did do a bad job in the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u98	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to what Mr. João Paulo Correia said, he reminded me of some speeches that were being made in his party, notably Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos, now Secretary of State, that the problem of Portuguese public debt was easy to resolve and, if we wanted to resolve it, even the legs of the German bankers would tremble. It reminded me and was at the level of these speeches. I will not do you wrong to discuss the solutions that you then presented, I will just remember a number on responsibility: when you arrived at the government in 2005 the Portuguese public debt was just over 60 %; when you left by mid-2011 it was 109 % of GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u100	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u101	So, Mr President, as long as you do not take responsibility for this, I think it will be difficult to sit down and try to create solutions to this problem, which is very serious. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u102	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, who came here to accuse of a lack of seriousness who does not say that what happens to Portuguese interest is happening to interest in all countries, I can also show you a 10-year interest graph in secondary markets, where Portugal, Spain and Ireland are compared.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u103	They're coming up on everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u104	Have you noticed that what is happening in Portugal since your party supports the government is quite different from what is happening in Spain? Oh, my God! Won't it be a little bit daring to accuse others of lack of seriousness? Oh, my God! Isn't it Mrs. Deputy you're trying to hide this data? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u105	Everybody's coming up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u106	Interest rises more in Portugal, proportionally than in other countries!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u107	Thirdly, with regard to the reply of the Secretary of State, who compared the issue of the General Deposit Box with that of the People's Bank, I must say the following: when the General Deposit Box paid interest of 8, 5 % for a loan made by the Portuguese taxpayers, the Secretary of State and his party, the PS, they understood that it was too much, that the General Deposit Box should not pay so much; now that the Deposit Box pays 10, 75 % of interest to Luxembourg funds, they think it is less and could even pay more.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u108	It's the market, Your Honor! You don't want to know about the market anymore? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u109	Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what double criterion is this: then, paying 8, 5 % interest to Portuguese taxpayers is too much, but if it is to Luxembourg funds it is already too much? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to find a criterion that can at least apply to both. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u110	It's the market, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u111	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : When the CFP allocated this debate we had the sincere expectation that it could contribute to the discussion of one of the structural problems facing the country, the problem of debt. The CFP intervenes in this debate seeking to contribute to this objective. We have not only defended what seems to us to be the only structurally responsible solution to a structural problem, which is a debt renegotiation solution, and we have had no problem giving our opinion on what we consider to be solutions that, by improving something, do not essentially solve the debt problem, the so-called microsolutions. We regret that, unfortunately, the PSD and the CDS have come to this debate with irritation but without any prospect of solution. We perceive the irritation of the PSD and the CDS : they are the two parties responsible for the greatest increase in public debt that there is memory in the democratic regime: they are EUR 52 billion in debt of the exclusive responsibility of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not your responsibility to participate in the debate on the solution to the problem. And we regret that the only solution that the PSD and the CDS manage to present is to continue to propose that Portugal continue to bend its back to international creditors, hoping that, with this position and this position of submission, creditors will someday meet the needs of the country or the needs of our development. We regret that this is the perspective of PSD and CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We understand the irritation, due to the weight of the responsibilities they have behind them, but they still have the responsibility to come to the discussion. And let us hope that this debate will not run away from the committee that the CFP proposed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the debt problem is not just a problem today, it is a problem of the country's future. It is a problem that binds the country, it is a problem that blocks our development, which limits our ability to grow economically, which prevents the response to social problems. And it is a problem that requires a political solution. A political solution which must consider technical aspects, but which is a political decision and which must be taken by the Portuguese State. The question that arises, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to whom we put in the initial intervention, and which, by the voice of my comrade Paulo Sá, was put in the form of a question: what we could do with EUR 8 billion which today are bleeding for debt interest and which could be used to support our economy, to respond to economic problems, to solve social problems and to develop the country. This is the question that arises and the CFP response continues to be the one we have been defending since 2011. Today we are no longer alone in defending the proposal for debt renegotiation as we stand for it in 2011, but we are sure that support for this proposal will grow and that we will have to find the political conditions to respond to the debt problem, also respond to a future of national development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u113	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens continue to consider that debt, or debt renegotiation, is imposed up to its high level. We're talking about one of the biggest debts in the world. Public debt represents 130 % of our GDP (gross domestic product) and external debt represents 105 % of our GDP. And here neither the PSD nor the CDS can do as the ostrich, nor wash their hands as the other one did, because many are the responsibilities of the PSD and CDS in these numbers and the situation to which we have come. In any case, what we think is that the country cannot pay more than twice as much in interest annually than it receives in the European Union's structural funds or more than it spends on health and education. We are talking about more than EUR 8 billion per year, only in interest, so without any depreciation. In addition, over the past 10 years, interest expenditure has increased from EUR 4700 million to EUR 8200 million, i.e. 75 %. Well, this isn't comportable. There is no country that holds these charges and all the limitations that this entails for our development. It is inappropriate not only for interest charges but also for the unsustainable rate of growth that public debt continues to register. Therefore, in the face of facts and numbers, it is time to view debt renegotiation as an imperative for our economy's survival, because of two: either it progresses towards debt renegotiation, or we will expect the full strangulation of State activity, not only at the level of social functions, but also as a promoter of the necessary infrastructures that are indispensable for the economic development of the country. in this picture, the sooner the better. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u115	To close the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Secretary of State of the Treasury, Álvaro Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to reiterate the position of this Government, as already expressed by the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The debate on public debt must be held in the European context, not unilaterally. This government will do everything possible to make public debt increasingly sustainable, placing, as I said at the outset, on budgetary consolidation. I remember that we are going to present a deficit of public institutions in 2016 which is the lowest in the history of Portuguese democracy. We will continue to promote inclusive growth, growth that enables families, Portuguese, to make public debt more sustainable, because we have more income, because we have more employment, and we will continue to improve funding conditions, in particular by trying to diversify sources of funding and investors supporting Portuguese public debt. This is the way we will continue to draw. In 2017, growth prospects are better than those we had in 2016. This is not only the view of the Government, but also of all the international institutions that have recently been reviewing growth prospects for Portugal. The acceleration of growth in the second half of 2016 will allow growth in 2017 to be in some way already leveraged. With these perspectives, investor confidence and family trust are also at the highest levels ever, and this will make economic growth easier in 2017. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, regarding the solution of the General Deposit Box, we cannot forget that the General Deposit Box is one of the seven inheritances of the previous Government, which we are resolving. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] We cannot forget that at the beginning of 2016 we had problems in the capital structure of the BCP, in the structure of shareholders of the BPI, we had the General Deposit Box with capital ratios that did not meet the required levels...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u117	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u118	... by the European Central Bank, we had just solved BANIF — a problem that left us — after eight attempts with the European Commission,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... we had a resolution fund with a debt that was unsustainable for the Portuguese banking system—we had to change the lending conditions to make it sustainable for the Portuguese banks and, therefore, for the Portuguese economy—we had, and we continued to have, a high level of non-performing Loans and had the problem of the New Bank. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In 2017, we are talking only about two problems to solve, and in which we will work, which are the NPL ( non-performing Loans ) and the New Bank. For the New Bank a solution will be found, hopefully quickly, and we have the question of the NPL. The solution found for the Box will contribute to reducing this ratio. What the BCP has done, when finding an international partner for its capital structure, will also contribute to resolving this problem. Therefore, in view of the situation we found at the beginning of 2016, we had to work with the European Commission so that we could recapitalize the General Deposit Box without State aid. It was a historic decision taken by the European Commission,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u119	You're seeing the result!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u120	... which allowed the recapitalisation of the Box without such being classified as State aid. A historic decision, as I just said. This historic decision forced the Portuguese State to go to the international market and, when we compare what is comparable — which is the debt issue, with private parties, in Portugal and Spain — what we found is that, although the People's Bank has a higher rating than that of the General Deposit Box, the interest rate obtained by the General Deposit Box was lower than the interest rate achieved by the People's Bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u121	It's so dishonest that comparison!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u122	This greatly enhances the business plan of the General Deposit Board and all the efforts made by the Portuguese Government with the European Commission, with investors and with institutional partners. We cannot be comparing what was an interest rate achieved through public funds with private funds. What is fair is to compare what is comparable, private to private. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by members of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida and Cecilia Meireles.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u123	Mrs. Members, we turn to the second item on the agenda, which is from the evaluation of draft resolution No 677/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the unemployment allowance should not be lower than the IAS ( indexing social support ) ( PS ), together generally with the projects of lein.o 382 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the reduction of 10 % to the amount of unemployment allowance after 180 days of concession ( BE) and 398 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repeals the 10 % cut in the amount of unemployment benefit after 180 days of its grant ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November ) ( PCP ) and draft resolution No 762 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a specific qualification programme for long-term unemployed 45 years of age ( PSD ). To present the PS diploma, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the origin of the problem we are discussing today is another unfair measure of the previous government, which was introduced in 2012. PSD and CDS imposed a 10% cut in the amount of unemployment benefit after six months, not safeguarding that an unemployed person cannot receive less than the IAS (indicator of social support) which currently has the value of 421, 32 €. This situation violates the law and has already been the subject of recommendations made by the Ombudsman. This court combines the ideology of austerity with the ideology of punishment. It is not far from what they say we spend everything on « women and glasses», even though it has been done by those who have now participated in the chorus of protests. They are the same ones that told us that we lived above the possibilities, that we had impossible aspirations of quality of life, more holidays, more holidays, more rights, that we had to impoverish to grow, that we could not increase wages, we could not increase pensions and social minimums, that we had to leave the comfort zone and that we needed to lower the costs of work. Today we know we didn't have to do anything like that. But for those who thought so, nothing better to lower the costs of work than imposing an additional punishment on those who are in a difficult situation of unemployment, reducing the value of the benefit to minimums who are obliged to accept any work for the most unworthy value, even below, of the reference value of the Portuguese State for the IAS. by doing so, and by conditioning its policy of internal devaluation, the former government has reduced our levels of social protection to values incompatible with a decent society. This reality will change, and it will move rapidly to the IAS, with the proposal we present today in this House of the Republic. The Socialist Party and its parliamentary allies have established for this Parliament a clear policy for the recovery of the available income of families. in the budgets of the state of 2016 and 2017, the increase in available income was guaranteed in several areas: increase in wages, increase in pensions, subsidies, new social benefits, replacement of social minimums, extraordinary support for long-term unemployed, defrosting of the IAS, among other measures. It is therefore crucial to continue to extend social protection mechanisms. Unemployment, which has been steadily decreasing, is one of the factors of worsening the risk of poverty. In 2016, with the creation of an extraordinary measure to support the long-term unemployed, a very important step has been taken in extending the conditions of protection to the unemployed, but for us it is not yet enough. We want no unemployed Portuguese citizen to receive a unemployment allowance less than the reference value of the social support indexer. We know that this measure has costs, but it is precisely because of the reversal of austerity policies that social security is today stronger and has today more financial breath. Today we have a continuous drop in unemployment, with IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional) data recording the highest ever homologous fall in unemployment data. The reduction in the number of unemployed in 2016 allowed Social Security to save EUR 251 million in unemployment benefits. This good execution, which they told us to be impossible, results in more employment and more quality in that job. Without austerity the country breathes, the country recovers its normality, and we want to continue this course by strengthening our public systems with rigour, deepening its guarantees and extending, whenever possible, its beneficiaries. in the society in which we believe, we will not look at any unemployed person at a difficult time in his life, we do not accuse him of his situation, we do not punish him, we do not keep him away from him. With this proposal there will be a minimum value for unemployment allowance and we do not accept that no one receives below it. It is another measure to give more dignity to many Portuguese people who, at some point in their lives, may be, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, any of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u125	For an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unemployment benefit is a right resulting from the discounts of the workers themselves, it is not a favor of the State, it is not a charity subject to conditionalities. It is a fundamental pillar of the public social security system. So what has happened in recent years at this level has been an aggression to the fundamental principles of our democracy. Between 2009 and 2015, the period in which the economic and social crisis was more acute and in which unemployment grew the most, was also the period in which more cuts were made to protect unemployment. If we look at the coverage ratio, we see that in 2009 the unemployment allowance reached 69, 1 % of the unemployed and in 2015 it reached 47 %. In other words, most of the unemployed — and this situation remains — do not have protection in unemployment, do not have access to unemployment benefit. The legal changes that the PSD and the CDS have made have limited the grant deadlines and have substantially reduced the amount of the subsidy itself. On average, less than €100 in the unemployment allowance was the result of legal changes in the PSD and CDS. As if it were not enough, the right-wing government introduced a 10% cut applicable to all unemployment allowances from six months onwards, presenting - perversely - and I quote how it presented it - as an incentive to the active demand for employment by the beneficiaries. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this argument is, at least, silly for two reasons: firstly, because part of the idea that deprotection and poverty are incentives for activation. That's unacceptable! It is to take the unemployed as lazy in power and as suspects of fraud. Secondly, forgets that the demand for employment itself requires availability and material means which are precisely those that are compressed by the cut that the PSD and CDS have introduced into unemployment subsidies. This court is in practice a condemnation of many unemployed people to a situation of poverty, because, as the Ombudsman has quite rightly warned, it applies even to those unemployed who are unemployed under the IAS (indicating social support) below the poverty threshold. Therefore, it is in contradiction with the legal regime itself of protection in unemployment, which says that no unemployed can have the value of the allowance below this threshold, which happens with the application of this cut. The Left Block has been raising this issue with the Government for many months. Today, we will take an important step in correcting this injustice for the poorest unemployed, just those who receive below the social support indexer. The goal of the Block is that this correction is made now, but it is also that this cut is revoked for all the unemployed already in 2018. That is the objective of our bill and it is for him that we will fight. That's what needs to be done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u127	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are bringing to the discussion today a proposal that seeks to eliminate a profound injustice which persists over the unemployed and which has been introduced by the former Government of the PSD and the CDS — the cut of 10 % in unemployment benefit after six months. Unemployment is the country's largest social drama, one of the biggest economic problems facing the country, not being disconnected from a set of political options taken in recent decades that have degraded and weakened our productive apparatus. Unemployment and its worrying dimension are not collateral damage, they are a political objective of impoverishment and concentration of wealth promoted by the right-wing policy and considerably aggravated by the previous government, the PSD and the CDS. Unemployment is a means of reducing wages, increasing exploitation and precariousness. A worker without unemployment benefit is pushed, by reason of the despair he lives, to accept any wage, any type of contract, any timetable, any kind of working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u130	The amendments made to the rules on the allocation of unemployment benefit in recent years, the cuts in social support applied in this area did not only have an economic objective, they also sought to create conditions to aggravate exploitation, to reduce wages, to promote precariousness and to force the unemployed to accept worse working conditions. The changes to the rules on the allocation of unemployment subsidies made by successive governments meant less unemployed under conditions of access to this social support, increasingly attracted workers to situations of poverty, and as a direct consequence of these same changes, about 2 / 3 of the unemployed do not have any kind of social support.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u132	It was precisely at the time of the deepening of unemployment, the increase in poverty situations and social disprotection that the PSD/CDS government decided to change again and to worsen the rules for the allocation of unemployment benefit, making it even more difficult to access this crucial social benefit. Among other measures, it applied the 10% cut in unemployment allowance at the end of the sixth month of allocation, bearing in mind that it also tried to apply the 6% cut in unemployment benefit, which was not only forward because it was considered unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u133	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u134	The consequences of these measures were evident: more unemployed workers without unemployment benefits and those who had received less and less time. It was a strong attack on the right to social protection for workers and stigmatized unemployed workers, almost responsible them for their unemployment situation, while conditions were created to increase the concentration of wealth in a handful of economic and financial groups. It is important, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, take measures to create jobs with rights, to value wages, but it is also important to create measures that guarantee the necessary social protection in situations of unemployment. It is unacceptable that this cut of 10 % should be maintained at the end of six months of unemployment, creating even more difficulties for those already living in an extremely difficult situation. The CFP proposal is a contribution to putting an end to this injustice. [[Congratulations on the PCP and Mr José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u135	For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today two bills, the Left Block and the PCP, a PS resolution project and also a draft resolution presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group. But before presenting our draft resolution, allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the truth about what Mr from the Left Block said. You were wrong about the target when you referred to the previous government, Mr. If anyone did, it was a Government of the Socialist Party, when he subscribed to the Memorandum of Understanding, namely point 4.1 — I repeat, point 4.1 — on the 10 % court. The former Government was therefore limited to compliance. You were wrong about the target, Mr. Deputies! It wasn't the previous government, it was the government of your coalition partner.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u137	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u138	The change is from PSD, in 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u139	Go study, Mr. Deputy, study! On the question of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members said that we can do nothing but revoke, I ask: why have they not already repealed all the legislation? Why will they delay to the 2018 Budget? Why did the PS, when the Communist Party presented a draft parliamentary assessment to the decree-law, vote against that proposal, against that revocation? Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u140	What a shot question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u141	It was good that the Socialist Party Member had asked for information before he spoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u142	He doesn't listen, he doesn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u143	The draft resolution presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group to this Plenary aims to help those whom we consider more vulnerable, such as those who are long-term unemployed over 45 years old. We know today that the labour market is highly competitive and requires very special skills. Only because it is not beautiful or new should not be put out of the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u145	In addition to recognizing the need for financial support, we find it extremely important that we will immediately contribute to the acquisition of the skills of these workers with a view to the labour market. That is why we propose that specific training actions be developed, adapted to the labour market, for long-term unemployed who are 45 years old or older. We also propose that they be awarded a training grant of 75 % of the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u146	Do you have any ideas now? And when were they in the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u147	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate confronts us with a large majority of dialectics, with a great deal of concern about making speeches against the previous government. But it has already been said here that the extent to which the Left Block and the CFP propose that it be reverted has a recipient, which is the government which at the time negotiated this same measure and which expressly established it in the Memorandum of Troika. That is the addressee who has and is also the addressee of the words of Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the Socialist Party, forgetting that he was addressing precisely his predecessors of the Socialist Party. That's the truth! however, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is dialectics and political rhetoric, another is the ability to respond to concrete, serious problems that the Portuguese live. These problems today are very clearly related to the increase in unemployment, the decrease in job creation for people over the age of 45 and long-term unemployment. With this the current majority is not concerned. I have not brought any proposals, you have nothing to say about a reality that everyone should mobilize to have the ability to respond. We follow closely the concern of the Social Democratic Party on this matter and the truth is that in our Government we can reverse the extent to which it was negotiated by the Socialist Party for the Memorandum of Troika with respect to the 10% court for couples, when the two members of the couple were unemployed. We found that 10% cut was not implemented for a social reason. The fact is that the former government, concerned about the reality of increasing long-term unemployment, created the Reativar programme. The fact is that this government, after 15 months, is not monitoring, it does not present anything about this, which is extremely serious. We would therefore like the PS to have a word to answer to the Portuguese in this situation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u149	Mrs. Members, as you can see, there are still time available for this debate. The rule that has been followed by the Bureau is to give the floor to the Members. Members who wish to do so, in order to reverse the priority of interventions. [[Pause.]] Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor again for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in the few seconds that I have left, I would like to tell the power benches what is the interest and motivation they have in supporting our draft resolution. We are not only interested in supporting people with subsidies. They accuse us of being just people who want to cut the unemployment allowance, but what we want is to value the unemployed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u152	We want to give them skills, which will help them enter the labour market from the first day they fall into unemployment. It is not when the unemployment allowance ends, it is immediately from the moment they fall into the unemployment situation, because only with competence can these people be competitive and can be able to return to the labour market. in this sense, we would very much like to hear the views of the parties that are so much called workers' defenders, but what they want is to give them subsidies, without worrying about their entry into the labour market. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u153	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Borges, say that the unemployed should be valued and what you did, in effect, was cut 10 % in the unemployment allowance. What you did was tell those who were unemployed: "After six months you don't get a job? So take it, you get less than 10% of the unemployment allowance you had to survive! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PCP applause.]] It's these living conditions we're talking about, Your Honor. You're here talking about valuing the unemployed. You have a strange way of valuing the unemployed! Mrs. Members, we now have the possibility of putting an end to this injustice in the Assembly of the Republic ; the cut of 10 % in the unemployment allowance carried out by the Government of the PSD and the CDS is a clear example of its social insensitivity. The Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to put an end to this injustice. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u155	For an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u156	Mr President, Mrs Mercês Borges, I do not know if your bench is affected by a rescan of Relvas syndrome, but I believe that it is the Member who will have to study. It is that the amendment we are discussing here was made in 2012 by Decree-Law No 64 / 2012 of 15 March. Guess who was in the government? Pedro Passos Coelho, Paulo Portas, PSD and CDS. Madam Member, what we want to repeal is an amendment to the authorship of the PSD and the CDS. What about this amendment, except that the argument put forward to condemn unemployed people to poverty—because that is what we are talking about, are we talking about cuts that apply to people who are below the poverty line — has been presented as an incentive to seek employment? Isn't this a jerk? I think it is, Mrs Deputies, and I also think it is when you say that valuing the unemployed is cutting them 10 % in the allowance or addressing unemployed people or the parties who are here discussing the protection of unemployment as being only interested in granting subsidies. Madam Member, who has the right to unemployment benefit is not unemployed because he wants or because he is lazy, he is unemployed because he is left, against his will. Because, involuntaryly, he was shot into an unemployment situation and, after working and discounting, he has the right to such protection and to be respected, which Mrs Deputy did not, in her speech, do not. He did not respect the unemployed, as the PSD and CDS government did not respect them either when he treated them as lazy or when he imposed a 10% cut in the allowance. It is that court, yes, Mrs. Member, that we want to revoke. for our part we do not miss the troika. The gentlemen. Members may miss the troika, but we do not have the troika or austerity, and you know, Mrs Deputy, I believe that the country does not. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u157	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in the few seconds that I have, I mean, that whenever the benches on the right have no arguments for any discussion, they bring the Pope of the Memorandum of Understanding. We should understand which of the articles that normally you literally hammer in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, because in this article there is no tax on the reduction of 10 % in the unemployment allowance and much less than the value of the IAS. What is there is a reduction in expenditure in the overall amount of 10 %, and so much so did former Minister Mota Soares say that he did not have that amount closed, that this amount could have many other configurations and the overall amount of expenditure reduction is not due to the amounts or the criteria that you have. In addition, you have increased the expenditure on social security by EUR 1000 million per year, with the increase in subsidies, charges and the loss of revenue with contributions. I have just told you that last year we saved 251 million euros with unemployment allowance thanks to the activation of the labour market, and we have done so, contrary to what you said, with policies that have valued wages, that have valued income and that will continue to value Portuguese workers. You may come to this plenary and continue to look at what you have done or have stopped doing, but the Portuguese know well what the Socialist Party and the parties that support this government will do by valuing the unemployed and the workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u159	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is from the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 596 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with Law No 65 / 2015 of 3 July 2015 and establish the year 2017 / 18 as a date to extend the universality of pre-school education for children 3 years of age ( PSD ), 352 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — proposes the universalization of pre-school education from 3 years of age ( PCP ) and 690 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the universality of pre-school education at the age of 3 be achieved by 2019 and the requirement at the age of 5 ( CDS-PP ). To present the PSD draft resolution, Mrs Maria Germana Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is no secret to anyone who opposes the purely ideological 'construction' of this weekly unauthorized protection. A deconstruction marked by imposing decisions, setbacks, hasty announcements and retreats. Words such as « stability », « predictability », « transparency », « work» and « organization » are absent in the current government practice of education. Proof of this is the need for us to present today a draft resolution that recalls what is required of the government: to comply with the law, only to comply with the law. And I am not referring to compliance with the rules and incompatibilities of the members of the Government Support Offices, which appear to be ignored by the Minister of Protection. I mean, yes, to the fulfilment of Law No 65 / 2015, of 3 July. The law in force is very clear: it extends the universality of pre-school education for children from the age of 4 years, and it is up to the Government to regulate, by creating the applicable standards, to ensure their implementation from the school year 2016 / 2017, providing for the establishment of a timetable to define a deadline, with a view to extending this universality to children 3 years old. Were any of these precepts met? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. After we approved, in 2016, by a parliamentary majority, the recommendation to the Government, within the framework of the goal set out in the National Reform Programme, in order to comply with the law and in particular establish the year of implementation of the universality of preschool for children 3 years old, assessing the possibility of this to occur in 2017 / 2018, spent almost 17 months of governance, what do we have? Nothing! We have no specific date, no rules. They will say to me: « The government is preparing», but I answer that that is what they have said since they took office almost a year and a half ago. They announce, they announce, but they do not carry out. Is the new legislation ready? When is it presented? Are the rooms necessary to accommodate the search are being prepared, or are we going to watch again what happened in 2016? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the deep demographic depression that characterizes our country, we know that this is not a difficult goal to achieve and that there is consensus on the goodness and opportunity of the measure and synergies in society to ensure its implementation. So, what justifies this silence, this omission by the government? This draft resolution is another warning, a call for attention to the Government to do what it deserves and at least comply with the law currently in force, so that families are not exposed to uncertainty and anxiety again. Therefore, we urge the Government to comply with the law, to establish a specific timetable for the year of implementation of universality at the age of 3 years, to mobilize the public, social and private sectors, with and without profit, in order to overcome the shortage of places available in public institutions of pre-school education and care, and cannot accept the PCP prejudice over the IPSS, which play such a relevant role in this area, and to promote a system of incentives to authorities with lower rates of coverage for preschools, with a view to increasing supply and ensuring their full coverage. It's enough ad and ad. This is the time for clarification and implementation of decisive measures in the educational course. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u161	Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, within the framework of the implementation of the teaching policy, assigns to the State in its Article 74. the, responsibility for the creation of a public system and the development of the general system of pre-school education, and the existence of a network of public educational establishments covering the needs of the entire population should be ensured. The fact is that pre-school education plays a decisive role at the beginning of the school course of children, being recognized in the Pre-School Education Framework Law, as "the first stage of basic education in the process of lifelong education, being complementary to the family's educational action, with which it should establish close cooperation, promoting the formation and balanced development of the child, with a view to its full integration into society as being autonomous, free and solidarity". Given the importance of what is recognised in law, there are still several shortcomings in the public pre-school education network today, particularly in the medium and large urban areas, compromising access in conditions of equality and educational success for all. Regional development asymmetries have led to the depopulation of certain areas of the country and to a disorderly concentration of population in others, such as large cities, where often a high concentration of children, even in a context where birth is not as high as it would be desired. The lack of adequate public network response in pre-school education push families into private supply at prohibitive costs, aggravated situation while delaying the extension of this educational level to children from 3 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we advocate in this initiative that we present today that we guarantee the universalization of pre-school education, already provided for in the law, for all children aged 4 and 5 and that the universality of pre-school education is implemented for all children 3 years of age until the end of the legislature. We propose that the needs of public pre-school education equipment be lifted and that the study of the school park network of pre-school education be carried out, so that the necessary measures are taken to rehabilitate, expand or build, in order to strengthen the supply. Finally, we believe that it is necessary to draw up a genuine programme for extending public response to pre-school education equipment and their funding, with the necessary involvement of municipalities in their design, taking into account the educational charter of each municipality and providing access to Community funds for this purpose. The CFP recognises the crucial role of the extension of the public school education network in combating school failure and in improving student learning. Therefore, we defend the investment in its expansion and quality, planned according to the needs of each region and in conjunction with the authorities, to ensure the best interests of children and the realization of part of their fundamental rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u163	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The frequency of pre-school education was considered 30 years ago in the Basics Law of the Education System and today it is considered, therefore, as one of the essential bases for a successful educational journey. According to the National Education Council, in most European countries the school course begins in preschool education, and scientific evidence shows that the frequency of at least two years at this level of education contributes to school success in subsequent phases. Moreover, several studies show that children who stay at home until the age of 6 years have less stimulated skills than those who attended preschool and that this gap in learning is as much as the most disadvantaged is their socio-economic-family context. In Portugal, in 2015, the picture of pre-school education is marked by three facts. Pre-school infrastructures are decentralised in municipal chambers and therefore both construction and maintenance are autonomous responsibilities ; the rate of pre-school education is almost 100 % at 5 years, 90, 3 % at 4 years, and 78, 7 % at 3 years ; and the region that reaches the highest value at these rates is the Alentejo and below the national average are the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the Algarve and the Autonomous Region of Azores. The CDS has already presented a draft review of the Basics Act that introduced the universalization of pre-school education at the age of 3 and the obligation at the age of five, following the work done by the previous government and the recognition that early action—which does not mean an anticipation of schooling in a strict sense—is promoting greater equity in access to school success. Moreover, this is also a friendly measure of families, through a fundamental support in reconciling work/family. The importance of pre-school education seems to us to be a consensual point between all political parties. But although we agree and are even written in the Government Programme, the truth is that communication has been confused and little has been done for the timely realization of this objective. I'm going to give two examples of this. First example: during the months of August and September 2016, the news of several hundred children of 4 years of age without a break in pre-school made headlines in the newspapers, arriving Mr. Minister of Education to explain "a positive feedback", meaning that the responsibility was for families because they wanted to register their children and eventually put even more pressure on the system. Second example, in November 2016, while the Minister of Education spoke in universalization for 4 years in 2017, he went further, stating that the State Budget « ensures financial conditions to generalize preschool at the age of 3 ». in these confused terms, the CDS intends to continue to be relevant to urge the Government to act in this area, because the funds recorded in the budget do not allow for this measure to be carried out either. We therefore recommend that the Government undertake the universalization of pre-school education at the age of 3 and compulsory at the age of five, progressively, using both the public network and the private, cooperative and social network, thus avoiding incomprehensible duplication of investment in capacity and complying with Article 5. the Basic Law, which says it is the responsibility of the State not to stop, but to ensure the existence of a pre-school network. We also recommend that the government make public the timetable for this enlargement by school year, both as regards investment by municipality and as regards the number of vacancies to be made available in the two school years that are still missing until the end of the legislature. For a matter of scrutiny, but above all so that, unlike this summer, families can organize their lives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u165	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party, the fight against inequalities is central to reducing school failure and dropout, so public policies should be developed that assume the strengthening of opportunities for access to preschool education, an essential basis for the school future of children, the foundation of their personal and social development and a predictor of educational success. in successive socialist governments, the appreciation of pre-school has been a constant bet, which resulted in the expansion of the network and the consequent increase in the rate of pre-schooling ( which grew 22, 3 percentage points, 2000 to 2011 ), in the qualification of childhood education and in the increase of investment for this first stage of basic education in the process of lifelong education, as provided by the Pre-School Education Framework Act, approved under the aegis of, then, Prime Minister Antonio Guterres. It should be pointed out that today, in a universe of 811 groups of schools and ungrouped schools, we have 707 with the offer of pre-school, which means widespread coverage by more than 90 % of the territory. Recognizing the decisive role that the expansion of pre-school education had in reducing school failure and improving learning, it was important to resume investment in the expansion of the network—but to resume investment in the expansion of the network, which was interrupted in the face of the de-investment of the right government, too—and so are now developing measures - which guarantee the universality of the supply of pre-school education from the age of three years, within the term of the legislature. This is our commitment. Thus the amendment of Law No 85 / 2009 of 27 August as amended by Law No 65 / 2015 of 3 July will be made. in this context, it is also highlighted the approval of the review of Curriculum Guidelines for Pre-School Education (OCEPE), which fit the pedagogical guidelines for day care, in order to establish a complementarity and a continuum in the work to be developed with children between 0 and 6 years. Underlining, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, in this school year, were authorized more than 100 rooms to respond to the search for families, which led to a more robust network and enabled the government to initiate the effective universalization of pre-school education from 3 years old, also in a framework of cooperation with the social and solidarity sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The answer to children aged 5 is 100% and for 4 years we have coverage rates of close to 100% in the northern, central, Alentejo and Algarve regions. In Lisbon, where the demand is higher, the answer exceeds 90 %. at this time, the preparation meetings of the school network, aiming the next school year, are beginning and will allow to measure the relationship between supply and demand. in this process, we will involve the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) as partners in the universalization of pre-school, and it is still necessary a set of developments so that registration can be applied in the same terms as in the public network. We are thus available, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to enable initiatives that compete for this way of valuing preschool and its universalization at the age of three, in the course of the legislature, which, in fact, will meet what we are doing. We are not, however, available to enable initiatives headed by changes to the Basic Law of the Education System, redundant recommendations or that refer to development contracts with privates, because for us the priority is to have a more robust public child network, as provided for in Article 74. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The promotion of educational success and inclusion is also due to the need to improve the economic and social conditions of families, which the right-wing government has so much attacked. This debate cannot stop this focus. The fight against child poverty, aggravated by right-wing policies, is acute priority and support for families with children up to 3 years of age has been strengthened.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u167	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u168	With your tolerance, Mr President, I will say that it is in this framework that the appropriation of EUR 30 million for the increase in the amount of family allowances will benefit 180 000 children per year, the increase in prenatal allowance, the increase in family allowance for single parents and the benefits for large families. Mr President, we must educate each child to the limit of its possibilities and ensure full integration of all children. That's our way! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u169	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The importance of preschoolers has been recognized over the years and is no longer understood as a social response, a place where families leave their children because they have no place to leave them. That is why we have already tabled other amendments here, such as, for example, the standardization of the pre-school calendar with the basic education calendar, which was important for this recognition of the pre-school as a first step in lifelong education. It has already been mentioned here that this is the understanding that we should have of pre-schooling. It has also been said here that the National Education Council itself recognizes that preschoolers are a predictor of school success and is studied and proven that children who attend or attended preschool have much less retention rate than children who did not. This does not mean that the pre-school should be understood as a preparation for 1. the cycle, in a world where the school is made of results and the sooner you start preparing for this competition better will be the competitive advantage in this school made for individualism and for the competition of results. That's not what pre-school is. It's different, it's the first step towards acquiring those skills that will allow us to continue learning throughout our lives. It is the most comprehensive teaching of the more social and personal competences that enable us to live in society, in cooperation, in solidarity, in a plural way. It's getting out of the house and starting to learn for life, for the rest of life. These are the skills that are learned in pre-school, that is their importance. But it is also known that access to preschool is now greater among families with higher socioeconomic status and lower in families with a more fragile socioeconomic status, i.e., preschool also has a role in promoting the fight against social inequalities or in perpetuating these social inequalities. That is why the universalization of preschool is a consensus today. And it must be seen as a consensus because it is an affirmation of a universal right of children to education and its development, it is the affirmation of a universal right of all children. And, being a universal right of all children, it is an obligation for the State to have a public network of pre-school educational establishments. As the Constitution provides for all levels of education, it is the obligation of the State to guarantee a public network that fulfils the universal right to education, which is fulfilled by the pre-school. That is why this is a consensus. Now, this consensus that pre-school education is a universal right cannot be taken advantage of to be a Trojan horse on amendments to the Basic Law. And much less could ever be taken advantage of this right as a way to feed an education market or any income to private establishments, to private groups of education. That is why we have today with responsibility to enforce and demand that the Government fulfill its promise in its electoral programme to ensure the universalization of pre-school education from 3 years to 6 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u171	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u172	I shall conclude, Mr President. Demanding that the government comply with the law, we all demand, is the obligation of the government to comply with the law. This seems to us today to be more of a necessary investment than a lack of legislation. However, it is our responsibility — and the Left Block will do so — to require the Government to fulfil its promise to universalize preschoolers from 3 to 6 years old. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u173	For a second intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u174	Mr President, by the CFP, we reaffirm this commitment to defend the strengthening of public response to pre-school education as a factor in overcoming social inequalities and also as a factor in the development of children. We intend to make the assertion of universality and make this commitment to the defense of this right that was recognised in our Constitution, already in 1976, and that we in 2017 are not yet fully fulfilled. As for us, we need to give this answer, make an investment boost, strengthen the response of the available structures and make the necessary planning, ensuring that this perspective of universalization is met and extending it from the very beginning to the 3 years old. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u175	Mrs. Members, the debate on draft resolutions Nos 596 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD ), 352 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 690 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), we move on to a joint assessment of draft resolutions 669 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government grant a new period of temporary exemption from payment of social security contributions to milk producers ( CDS-PP ), 667 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government partially exempt the payment of contributions to social security for milk producers raw cow ( PSD ), 757 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government support for national dairy production, the fight against speculation of large distribution and the conciliation of positions for the replacement of a regulatory regime ( CFP ) and 761 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the partial dispensation of social security contributions to producers of cow's milk ( PS ). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Milk producers have been facing a serious crisis since mid-2015, the result of a cumulative set of factors which are often known and which are essentially the Russian embargo, the breakdown of imports by China and the breakdown of consumption at European level. This, at the same time as the announced end of the milk quota regime on 31 March, which was already well known and caused market deregulation. The former PSD/CDS Government has endeavoured to find an answer both at European level and in defining measures that could be taken at national level. It then immediately initiated a wide-ranging dialogue with the entire sector — production, industry and distribution — which resulted in the establishment of an action plan for the dairy sector in a resolution of the Council of Ministers in September 2015 which included short-term measures and medium-term measures. One of these short-term measures was the exemption of social security contributions to milk producers, their spouses and their workers for an initial period of three months for the months following the publication of the measure, September, October and November 2015. It was also determined, in the Resolution of the Council of Ministers, that the need for the extension of this measure should be reassessed at the end of this period. however, despite market conditions having remained unfavourable only in May 2016, the current government of the PS decided to renew this measure, disbursing producers only partly by 50 % of the payment of contributions from April to December 2016. Having arrived in March 2017, it is found that, despite all measures, both Europeans and those implemented at national level, the price of cow's milk to the producer continues to be at least historical and below what is considered by producers as the cost of production. We are talking about a cost of production of about 0, 30 € / l and the price of milk is between 0, 27 € and 0, 28 € on the continent, being even lower in the Azores. For this reason, the CDS presents this draft resolution, which recommends to the Government that it grant a new period of partial exemption for six months from the payment of social security contributions to these producers, their spouses and workers, in the previous forms,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u177	... in order to alleviate the treasury charges of these companies, which are essentially family businesses and very small. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u178	You now have the floor to Mrs Carla Barros to present the draft resolution of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: by the milk producers in our country, we make a recommendation to the Government, in order to reduce the crisis affecting this sector. Today, we propose that the Government extend to them the exemption of 50 % of the social security contributions. In fact, it was the PSD/CDS government that implemented this measure in 2015 and in 2016, already in the opposition, the PSD also recommended to this government solution the same measure of reduction of contributions, which has already been applied and that the PSD wants it to continue to be. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a responsible and cautious attitude in the public accounts, which all Portuguese concern, we propose that, every three months, this dispensation be assessed and whether or not its continuity is relevant, depending on the evolution of the price of cow's milk paid to the producer. Allowing the payment of 50 % of the social security contributions to milk producers, their spouses and dairy workers relieves the treasury of these companies, traditionally familiar and very, very important for the economic fabric of the region and for the maintenance of jobs. This is a measure with an impact on the immediate, short-term, but the PSD, Mrs and Mrs. Members, he has already presented other innovative measures with medium- and long-term impact, as was the case with the compulsory labelling of milk. The left rejected it, with the argument that the government would raise it, but to date we still have nothing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD Parliamentary Group, are interested in a government that acts, takes care of and feels the dairy sector and never forgets that a dairy farm that never ends up reopening. Mr President, to the Government we have said everything; to milk producers, we want to remind them of our admiration for keeping them believe in this sector so important for the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u180	Mr. João Ramos has the floor to present the draft resolution of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP defends, as it was yesterday, national production and presents measures to address the serious problem that the dairy sector is going through and that exists only because those who ruled did not take into account the warnings that the CFP was making over the years. National production is valued by valuing and protecting productive sectors. One of them is the dairy sector, in which the country has the ability to produce in quantity to meet the country's milk needs, but also has the capacity to produce with quality. This is perhaps the most organized and modernised sector in our country, but that was not enough to resist the compressor roll representing the European Union and its policies designed to defend the interests of the countries of central and northern Europe. The responsibility for the situation of the dairy sector in Portugal is the integration policies of the European Union and the CAP (Common Agricultural Policy), the most harmful measure at the end of milk quotas. They are also responsible for the leaders of PSD, CDS and PS, faithful supporters and implementers of these policies, despite the warnings of the PCP and other structures for the purposes of these policies. First, it was the process of concentration of production, in which more than 50 000 farms disappeared in just 20 years. Now, it's the farms that live asphyxiated because of lack of profitability and sell milk below the cost of production. It is too obvious, and many will agree today with what the CFP has always said, that the revenue coming from Brussels for success has not been more than one way to deceive producers and, at the same time, to blame them for the difficulties they are experiencing today. For the PCP, it is essential to save the productive sectors of the disappearance, and more necessary is still in sectors in which the country has a lot and good capacity and recognition. For this reason, the CFP has advocated immediate measures to prevent the disappearance or reduction to insignificant levels of national milk production, but also substantive measures that go through the replacement of a production control regime and mechanisms for limiting distribution action in asphyxiation of production prices. The CFP understands that measures such as the exemption of payments for social security may represent immediate relief in the treasury of holdings, but does not agree that it is social security to support the sector's necessary support. The CFP advocates mechanisms, both within the CAP and the State budget, which allow such support without undermining social security. If many of the sectors in difficulty resort to the same mechanism, the situation becomes unsustainable. It is unwise to create a problem to solve another problem. It is with these concerns that the CFP proposes, in its draft resolution under discussion, that extraordinary aid be granted in the context of de minimis aid to European or other rules available in order to cope with the difficulties of milk producers. At the same time, monitoring and action actions must be intensified with food distribution chains to inhibit their speculative action and the breakdown of milk prices. It is also of great importance that there should be a need to develop procedures with other European states in a similar situation in order to create conditions for discussion and political initiative, with a view to the replacement of a regime for the regulation of milk production and marketing. The CFP understands that these are measures necessary for effective support to the dairy sector and therefore hopes that they will be approved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u182	You have the floor to present the draft resolution of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know in detail the difficulties that the milk sector is experiencing, resulting from a set of factors, such as the end of the milk quota regime, the Russian embargo on European agri-food products and the decrease in domestic and global consumption of milk and milk products. The milk sector goes through a prolonged period of severe imbalance between supply and demand, which translates into lower selling prices than production costs and has reached unsustainable levels for a large number of producers with serious cash and liquidity difficulties. This crisis has been one of the main concerns of this legislature and of this Government , the main concerns of this Parliament and the Government, the reflection of this Government, the various measures which have been implemented over recent months: the creation of the crisis cabinet, where the discussion on how to overcome difficulties in the sector has been made among all milk sector players with obvious gains in their own relationship between the parties ; the launch of two lines of credit lines of EUR 20 million; the launch of two lines of credit lines of EUR 20 million, designed to address the cash problems of the crisis office, where the discussion on how to overcome difficulties in the sector, where the discussion on how to overcome difficulties in the sector has been made in the sector has been one of difficulties, where the discussion on how to overcome difficulties in overcoming difficulties in the difficulties in the difficulties in the milk sector has been one of difficulties, where the discussion on how to overcome the milk production difficulties in the milk market sector, where there have been one of the main concerns of this crisis has been one of the main concerns, the main concerns of this crisis.... This crisis has been one of this was one of this, the main, the main concerns of this Government., the main concerns of this Government, the main concerns of this Government, the main, whose, the main, the main, whose reflection of which, the main, the main, the main concerns of which, the main concerns of which, the effects of which is the various, the various, the various of the various of the various of the various of the various steps, the various steps, the various of the various steps of the various, the various of the various steps of the various measures have been the various measures have been the various measures which have been the various the various, the various, the various, the various, the various of the various, the various of the various, the various of the various of the various of the various, the various, the various of the various of the various of the various of the various of the various of the various of the various of the measures which have been the measures which have been the measures which have been the various of the various of the various of the various of the various of the various of the various of the measures which have been the The reality is that we are beginning to see a reduction in the negative impacts of the crisis and milk producers gain a new hope, thus contributing to the creation of the Specific Programme for the Milk and Milk Products Sector, the implementation of which is fully operationalized and the results of which have been positive. It is also recalled that this government has assumed that this crisis should have a European response. Furthermore, the PS Government was even one of the drivers of the voluntary reduction in milk production, as the European Commission has adopted and has already allowed the reduction of nearly a quarter of the milk production in Portugal. Despite all these measures, the dairy sector remains subject to external factors and the tenuous recovery we are observing in the sector does not imply that we can lower our attention. This crisis has been and is still very deep and therefore it is important to create conditions to prevent possible conjunctural changes affecting all farmers. We therefore consider that it is of solidarity that it is important to introduce, even this year, a system of partial and temporary relief from the payment of social security contributions for a period of one year, which we are presenting to this House today, together with the continuation of the further measures implemented by this Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u184	Mr Soares has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation in the milk sector is a serious situation. We are confronted in this sector with a European market flooded with over-supply and which continues to exert serious pressure on national production to lower the price paid to the producer. in this scenario of complete deregulation rather than adopting a concerted policy of production and price stabilization, the European Union opted for a false self-regulation, which is no more than a « save whoever can », when deciding to end milk quotas in 2015. The result is in sight: Portuguese dairy producers continue to receive much below the costs of production and, in general, these men and women, on the continent and on the islands, continue to pay for production and to pay for work. It is a situation of deep injustice, to which we cannot turn our backs. After installing the chaos in the sector with the end of the quota regime, the European Union takes its responsibilities away and throws the problem over each country individually considered, such is the insurmountable faith in the sacrosanct free market. We thus see ourselves at this point: in a solidarity attempt to mitigate the damage of these Community decisions, national money that allows the reduction of producers' contributions to social security, the lines of credit for management and development fund and other back-up support were decided in 2015 and 2016 here in this House. It is appropriate to ask: but, after all, where is the famous Common Agricultural Policy? Where's the CAP? With what eyes does the CAP look into the dairy sector? In addition, despite the sector having a deficit of more than EUR 200 million, the large distribution continues to buy to those who sell the cheapest, not taking into account factors such as quality, and it is clear that those who leave damaged are the Portuguese producers, who continue to suffer the pressure to lower prices, unfairly and with revenues that do not cover production costs. from our point of view, only a firm intervention in the market, with concerted regulation, at the expense of the Community budget, as it must be, can give some hope to these men and women who have become indebted, who have invested, who have modernized, who have worked hard and worked hard to produce milk and feed the dairy industry in our country. We do not forget the main reasons that led to the degradation of the sector — and this sometimes becomes a little cloudy in the head of some parliamentary groups — and we do not cease to beat ourselves by market regulation, nor by fair remuneration from producers. But, in solidarity, the Left Block will also support measures that will have to be exceptional, reasonable and which, in the short term, improve the capacity of producers and their families to cope with this situation of great difficulty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u186	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us discuss today initiatives by four parties which argue that the State should exempt the milk production industry from paying social security contributions. Four parties argue that the State should benefit from one of the industries that most contributes to greenhouse gas emissions, soil depletion and water contamination. There are four proposals that do not differentiate small family farmers who need the most from monopolies that have gained huge profits from the milk business. Four initiatives do not distinguish the extensive or biological production of chemical and intensive production, which does not respect the life cycle of animals. We also want to leave a positive note to PS and CDS, parties that are no longer in a state of denial and that assume in their texts that one of the main factors for the sale of milk is the option of consumers. Every day there are more and more people who abandon the consumption of milk because they have access to vast scientific information that clearly shows the relationship between the consumption of milk and various diseases and health problems. This information is very different from the marketing communication that is at the service of the dairy business, so often passed in a little dignified way. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they want to defend the common interest, they want to respect consumers and, like most of you. Ladies and gentlemen, let the market work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u188	Mr Ramos has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say that it is not true that all the projects under discussion point to the exemption from payment of the contribution to social security. The option of the CFP is not this but that of defending national production, because we believe that it is essential to defend national production. Each liter of milk consumed in Portugal and not produced in Portugal means that it will come from outside, and we understand that there are conditions for it to be produced in our country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his remarks. Members demonstrate that the measures taken have not solved the problems, in particular the measure exempting the payment of the social security contribution, which has come since 2015 and that, although it was initially understood as a temporary measure, it is already in the third year of application. So another kind of support is needed. Thus, the PCP defends extraordinary support for production, understanding that it is also necessary to put a brake to the action of the large distribution, which uses milk, devaluing it, as bait to attract customers. It is necessary to work together with other countries of the European Union to require the replacement of the regulatory system. What the PCP does is challenge the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who agree...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u190	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u191	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, the gentlemen. Members, by a large majority, agree that support for the dairy sector is needed. That is why I challenge the honourable Members. Members to find these support and solutions outside the social security budget, without delay. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u192	Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u193	Mr. President and Mr. and ladies and gentlemen, the first comment, on such an important matter as this, is to ask: where for the government? Where is the government for a sector that is in crisis, as long as this, and as strategic for Portugal? Where's the government? Obviously the government has fled, it has failed the debate, because it has nothing new to say. And example that you have nothing to say and that policies have failed is that we are here today discussing another partial exemption from payment of social security contributions. The government has failed, and this is clearly disinterested. In fact, this is all planned — the absence of the government is so that this matter is not immediate, that this matter is not of interest to the country, that farmers do not know what is going on. The government has failed in its promises! And, moreover, it is not for the government to realize that the problem does not exist that it ceases to exist. The problem is real and it exists in the country. Still about the PS proposal, I must say that it is a real political ambush, I repeat, it is a political ambush! First, it is an ambush because, by saying that the 25% reduction is to 12 months, it is saying that in the next 12 months the government will fail in its policies for the sector. In other words, he admits that this government does not have the capacity to govern, nor does it have new policies for this sector. Secondly, it is an ambush because it binds producers to the payment of a high contribution to social security, that is to say, it helps to create difficulties for producers. On the contrary, the PSD has a responsible policy. The PSD wants to analyze the matter every three months, because this is a real policy, since it can be maintained, exempted or returned to normal. This is called “ruler”. This is called 'legislation'. This is called « political attention». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD had the initiative to present a proposal, because it seemed that no one else remembered that there was this problem to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u194	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u195	The CDS — well, and very responsibly — presented another initiative in the same direction, the PS presented another one, and the PCP also presented one. This isn't any cattle fair! This is not to see who gives the most! These are people and incomes of a class. Obviously, you didn't have the initiative, you came to the trailer, and this is no cattle market! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u196	in fact, this is the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Lara Martinho said here that the sector was recovering and, indeed, it is true that at European Union level the sector has had some recovery. But it must be said that in 2015 when the previous government acted, the price in Portugal was 1 % below the European Union average to 28 countries. Currently, in January, the price of milk in Portugal is 15 % below the average price of the European Union, and with all the measures implemented, this was an increase in the price of 12 % on the average of the European Union, while in Portugal we saw a break of 1 % on the price. So there's still a lot to do. Mr André Silva, in fact, you have no idea what you are talking about. The honourable Member, who is here talking about the milk production industry, knows that these measures, taking into account the period in which they were implemented and the fact that they were subject to the so-called « de minimis rule », apply to agricultural producers with at least three workers. That is to say, with the farmer, we have a spouse and a potential worker, so we are talking about farming companies with three workers at most.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u198	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u199	Just do the math! I have them with me and I can show them! The accounts are very easy to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u200	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u201	If you call this industry, I do not know what you know about agriculture and the agricultural reality of our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u202	What do you intend to do to the whole population, especially in the northern part of the country, who lives in small agriculture if one day those farmers abandon dairy production? What are they gonna do? What are the Portuguese going to eat? The honourable Member has every right to defend production and to feed itself, as you understand, we defend freedom of choice. That is, everyone should eat what they understand. If I want to drink cow's milk—because milk only has cows—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u203	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u204	...I have that right, just as you have the right to drink vegetable drinks, if you understand. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-23.u205	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Friday, 24 a.m. at 10 a.m. and a debate on the first item on the agenda will take place during the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. Second, the assessment of Decree-Law No 45 / 2016 of 17 August adopting a set of complementary rules for the transition process of polytechnic higher education teachers regulated by Decree-Law No 207 / 2009 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 7 / 2010 of 13 May [ Parliamentary assessments n. 22 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE) and 24 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. of the third point is the joint discussion of the following diplomas — the bills will be discussed in general: Bill No. 453 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code by strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 454 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish the conditions for the organisation, operation and installation of the Centre for Occupational Activities ( CAD ) ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No 455 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, to the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and to the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009, increases the period of parental leave in the case of birth of children with disabilities or rare illness in 60 days and creates parental leave for premature birth, associated with disability or rare disease, with more than 6 weeks before the presumed date of birth ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No 456 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the exceptional scheme for indexing the social benefits of the disabled in the Armed Forces ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 729 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend with the institutions of the European Union the non-discrimination of remuneration of persons with disabilities in projects financed by Community funds ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 730 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the National Early Intervention System ( SNIPI ) for children up to 10 years or until the end of 1. the basic education cycle and flexibility and speed up its structure ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 731 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, with a view to operationalizing and implementing the Centre for Care, Monitoring and Social Rehabilitation for Persons with Disabilities and Disabilities, shall establish and determine in the contracts to be concluded with the institutions a user/month value that enables the establishment of a link between the services provided, the levels of care and the follow-up carried out ( CDS - PP ) ; draft resolution No 732 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the guarantee plan for disabled children and young people ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 733 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a single document demonstrating the degree of disability and disability for all circumstances of the life of the disabled person accepted in all public services ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 734 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to vocational training adapted to persons with disabilities and disabilities ( PCDI ), in particular to dual-certification ( level 2 ) ( vocational certification and academic equivalence to 9. the year ), in the region of the Great Lisboa ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 735 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the terms and conditions for the access and exercise of the profession of personal assistant ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 746 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a true inclusive school, in compliance with Recommendation No 1 / 2014 of the CNE, and with the recommendations of the special education working group, established by Dispatch No 706 - C / 2014 ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 747 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study of alternative methods for the exercise of voting rights by disabled citizens ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 748 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop support for entrepreneurship and self-employment for people with disabilities ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 749 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government encourage the creation of the Portuguese platform of self-representatives of persons with disabilities until the end of 2. the semester of this year ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 750 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the value for the accumulation of disability benefit with work income is not less than the sum of the reference value of the social benefit for inclusion with the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 751 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reformulate support for firms employing persons with disabilities ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 752 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value the activity of assisting dogs, in particular by defining a stable and continuous financial support framework ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 753 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national awareness campaign for compliance with the accessibility law ( CDS-PP ) ; draft Regiment No 1 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 so as to include in the public discussion obligation the disability legislation ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No 461 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extends protection in parenthood to parents with children with disabilities or rare disease ( BE ) ; Bill No 462 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates a specific prematurity or hospital stay permit for newborns ( PCP ) ; draft resolution No 502 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that persons with disabilities with a disability rate of 60 % or more be included in the protocol concluded between the INR and the CP in order to access the 25 % discount on tariffs ( BE ) ; draft resolution No 503 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by eliminating the sustainability factor applicable to disability pensions converted into old-age pensions ( BE ) ; draft resolution No 506 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that light passenger or mixed motor vehicles for the use of persons with disabilities be integrated into Class 1 for the purposes of tolls ( BE ) ; draft resolution No 721 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Classification of mobility scooters to allow their access to passenger transport ( The Greens ) ; draft resolution No 754 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a Portuguese Gestive Interpreter Exchange in order to ensure the accessibility of public services ( PAN ) ; draft resolution No 755 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in the context of the revision of Decree-Law No 3 / 2008 of 7 January, promote inclusive school in a comprehensive manner ( BE ) ; draft resolution No 758 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the service of the counters of inclusion and recognition of all evidence of disability and disability, improving the conditions of access to them ( PCP ) ; draft resolution No 759 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Evaluation of vocational training for persons with disabilities ( CFP ) ; and draft resolution No 760 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the responses of the National Early Intervention System ( CFP ). of the fourth point is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 458 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Gives the nature of the executive title to the final decisions of the Act ( Labour Conditions Authority ) and amends the procedural arrangements applicable to labour and social security counter-ordinations by amending the second amendment to Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September ( CFP ) and 105 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It deepens the legal regime of the special action for the recognition of the existence of a contract of employment established by Law No 63 / 2013 of 27 August and extends the procedural mechanisms for combating « false green receipts» and all forms of undeclared work, including false stages and false voluntary ( BE ). Fifthly, motion for a resolution No 43 / XIII ( 2 ) will be considered. ( a ) — Approves the European Agreement on Persons intervening in Cases before the European Court of Human Rights, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 5 March 1996. Finally, a scheduled voting period will take place at 12 noon. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 34 minutes.]]
