ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Members, today's agenda is completed by the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister on the economic and financial situation under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. Before that, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to account for the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, information that gave entry to the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 371 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthens the legislative framework for the prevention of the practice of harassment in a labour context in the private sector and in the Public Administration ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 372 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Introduce stricter rules with regard to the use of animals for scientific research purposes ( NAP ). They also entered, and were admitted, the draft resolutions 612 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — the progressive reduction and elimination of the use of animals for scientific purposes ( The Greens ), 613 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an urgent solution to the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( The Greens ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 614 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures in the field of the use of animals in scientific research ( CFP ), 615 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for the protection of animals for experimental and other scientific purposes ( BE), 616 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government allocate a percentage of the innovation and development funds ( R & D ) of public expenditure distributed by the Science and Technology Foundation ( FCT ) in non-animal methods ( NAP ) and 617 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government urgent repeal of Orders Nos 6550 / 2015 and 5185 / 2013 on amendments to the National Ecological Network ( REN ) of Alcácer do Sal and Grândola as appropriate to the lifting of all amendments to the REN since 2008 ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u3	I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the Members. Members of the Government here present. Let us then begin the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on the economic and financial situation under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor, for an initial intervention, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: This is our first 15-year debate in this new year of 2017. So I want to start by wishing all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the best votes of the new year. One year ago I presented here a budget which I assume is demanding, a budget which at the same time fulfils the commitments contained in the Government Programme, the joint positions with the parties that make up the majority in this Assembly of the Republic and the international commitments of Portugal. Many doubt it. Many, and repeatedly, questioned whether this triple commitment could be met and insisted that there was no alternative to the policies of the previous government. Many have prophesied inevitable additional measures which they guarantee would already have been promised by the Government to Brussels. Some even argued that it would not be possible to meet a deficit of less than 2, 5 %, or 2, 7 % or even less than 3 %. [[CDS-PP protests.]] For months on end, they asked for plan b and waited for the Devil. With the figures available today, I can assure this House that the 2016 deficit will not exceed 2, 3 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] In other words, as I have repeatedly said, the deficit was comfortably below the limit set by the European Commission. Against all warnings of misfortune, against all forecasts of plans b, c or z, Portugal fulfilled its commitments, without having had to resort to amending budgets or additional measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, we've fulfilled our commitments. Yeah, there was an alternative. And yes, we got the results. PSD and CDS have been wrong in arithmetic and have been wrong in politics. In four years and eight Reformary Budgets, they did not once meet their objectives and left us far from being able to leave the procedure due to excessive deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u5	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u6	They failed when they repeated, for four years, that there was no alternative. They failed when they assured us that we would need a plan b, with more taxes and less income, i.e. when they asked us to give up political change and pursue their disastrous policy. What a deficit of not more than 2, 3 % proves is in a very simple way: the previous government, cutting pensions, cutting wages and cutting social support and increasing taxes, has failed all the targets of the deficit in every year and in all the corrective budgets it presented ; this government, returning pensions, returning wages and returning social support and reducing the tax burden, presents the lowest deficit of democracy and withdraws the country from the excessive deficit procedure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there was even an alternative. And there was even an alternative that ensured better results than those achieved by the previous majority. But not only in terms of deficit do we have results to present. As we have often said, "there is more life than Budget". He said, and I repeat, that the priority of our economic policy was employment, employment, employment. So in the year that we reverse the slowdown in the economy, in which exports have reached a new record...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u7	That was in 2013!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u8	... and private investment increased, the best and most promising results are precisely in the labour market, with employment growing above 2 % and unemployment in values that have not occurred since 2009. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The unemployment rate was 10 % in October when it was 12 % one year earlier. This positive development does not occur only in the number of Portuguese people who are unemployed — these are today less than 69 000 people than they were a year ago — but also in the net job creation, when we now have more than 86,000 people employed than one year ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this trend is seen in all groups of the highest prevalence of unemployment: in the long-term unemployed, the rate of which decreased by 1 percentage point, and, above all, in young unemployment, at which the rate was reduced by 4, 7 percentage points. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the numbers I presented here confirm that 2016 was a year of turn and a year of confirmation that there was not only an alternative of government but also of policies. in public accounts, in economic growth, in employment, in the confidence of investors and families, the signs of change are there. In 2017, this year that we are now starting, we will continue this path. With a budget that once again bets on improving the income of families and social protection, with the elimination of the overtax on the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and the extraordinary contribution of solidarity, with the increase of the national minimum wage, the actual increase in pensions, the updating of the social support indexer, the conclusion of the salary replacement in the Public Administration and the fight against child poverty, with the strengthening of the family allowance for children up to 3 years old. This year will also be marked by strengthening investment, improving the quality of public services — in health, education, transport — and promoting sustainable economic growth. After, in 2016, we have unlocked the application of Community funds from 4 to 460 million euros, I repeat, from 4 to 460 million euros, the transfer of funds to companies, we will do more than double this amount, reaching over this year EUR 1000 million from Community funds to finance the investment of companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards investment incentives, we will also implement, as envisaged in the Budget, the Capitalisation Programme's fiscal measures and the IRS-based benefits for start-up investment with the Seed Programme. But this is also a year of public investment bet, which grows 20 % compared to 2016, with emphasis on proximity investment, in 200 primary and secondary schools, three new hospitals, the implementation of the security forces modernization plan, the priority for urban rehabilitation and the investments provided for in the Railway 2020 plan. The year 2017 will therefore be the year to pursue the income recovery and investment promotion policy. But it will also be the year of progress, in an integrated way, in the pursuit of the strategy that we define to overcome the country's structural blockades, implementing the National Reform Programme, the qualification of Portuguese, the enhancement of the territory, the modernization of the state, the innovation of the economy, the capitalization of companies, the strengthening of social cohesion and the reduction of inequalities. In short, the implementation of this strategy is our priority for the future, continuing the triple design we have chosen for this legislature: we have more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u9	Let us start the question-and-answer phase. To put questions, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u10	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Prime Minister, in this first debate of the year 2017, I want to congratulate you and hope that the rest of the year can bring a correction of the speech you made here because you came to draw us a story about 2016 and previous years that simply does not match reality. It's a fiction. The Prime Minister may even come to say — as he began, during almost half of his speech — in a almost self-congratulatory way, which can reduce the deficit in 2016 and I hope so. I have already said in this House, on other occasions, that even if policies are not wrong, the cost for Portugal to fail to meet these objectives is too high and therefore I hope that it will do so. But, Prime Minister, he does not meet his objectives as he has said. That's not it! Because, in fact — today this is very obvious — the government has even applied a programme b! And this program b had the biggest cut in public investment that there is memory in Portugal in many tens of years and was almost superior to what it announces to recover for the next year. [[PSD applause.]] It includes cuts in state expenditure — blind, because until today Mr Finance and Mr Prime Minister have not yet explained where they were, but they were over EUR 400 million — cuts in the acquisition of State goods and services, and, contrary to what he says, they have managed to increase taxes significantly. It's true! The ones who took it from one side put them on the other! So, Prime Minister, you did not perform any miracles. The Prime Minister even found that, in order to achieve his goals, it was essential to have extraordinary measures, including tax forgiveness, which was re-edited and which brought more than EUR 1000 million of additional revenue and, exactly, brought a re-evaluation of assets. Thus, the result presented is not the one who, in the presentation of the Budget, had said he would fulfill. I congratulate the Government for achieving its goals, but do not want to throw dust on people's faces saying that it did not comply with a plan b, which did not take extraordinary measures, because they are known to all! Therefore, the idea of the alternative falls to the ground, with much ease.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u12	But there are two things I would like to add to your rhetoric. The first is this: when I arrived at the government and started my term as Prime Minister, the country's deficit was about 11 %. I repeat: 11 %, Prime Minister! [[11%!!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u13	When we arrived in 2015 and left the government and when we made the accounts at the end of the year to know, outside the impact of BANIF, how much it had been the deficit, imagine, Mr. Prime Minister, he was no more than 3%,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u14	Three percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u15	... more precisely 2, 98 % — the accounts are not mine, they are yours, they are from the Government. in the deficit accounts at the end of the year, corrected by extraordinary measures, the deficit was 3 %. It was 11 % in 2010, 3 % in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u16	See that in 2010 there were also extraordinary measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u17	Mr Prime Minister, you can have a deficit below 3 % in 2016, I assure you -it was because there was a government that moved it from 11 % to 3 %! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It was not wrong for him to recognize that from now on!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u18	In 2015, it was 4, 4 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u19	But, Prime Minister, let's go directly to the point of interest: in Portugal — we will see the final numbers in due course, but we think that the numbers will be a little better than those that the government itself has planned — in 2016, the growth of the economy compares poorly with that of Spain, Ireland, i.e. with European Union partners who have gone through circumstances very similar to Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u20	In 2015, did you also compare badly? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u21	... and we come to the conclusion that these countries are growing or double or triple of what Portugal has grown and pay funding costs to 10 years that are half or half of what Portugal pays.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u23	If we are growing much less than the others, with the same monetary policy as the ECB, why do we pay so much more than the others to finance the State at 10 years?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u25	Do not come with 2015! Don't come with the past! Because if we look at what happened in 2015 we will have to conclude that, except for three other countries in the euro area that increased their financing costs to 10 years during 2016, but incomparably less than Portugal, which added 2016 was that Portugal was the champion of the increase in funding to 10 years. There was even no more with the same policy as the ECB. I want to tell you, Prime Minister, that you pay very expensive the reversals that have been made,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u27	... the wrong economic policy that is being made, the majority agreements that have been established in this Parliament... All this cost Portugal very much in development, in economic growth, in confidence, in investment attraction and therefore in generation of jobs that you say, and very well, which has improved, has continued to improve throughout 2014, 2015, 2016,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u28	in the second half of 2015, stagnou!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u29	... but when we look at the second half of 2016, we see that it stabilized. Mr Prime Minister, I would finally like to ask you a question, since we have also started the parliamentary year with a promise of disagreement in your majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u30	That was the excuse you gave two days ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u31	You have made an agreement with the Left Block to increase the national minimum wage. Then he went to the social consultation and made a discount on all those who agreed with what you had already negotiated with the Left Block. I soon learned that I would not have in the parties on the left-hand side of Parliament, most of them voting to support the commitment you made with the social partners in social dialogue. Mr Prime Minister, why did you understand that you should make this commitment to the social partners, knowing that you had no support in Parliament, in the majority, to take it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u32	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u33	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, for once, you are right. I didn't do miracles! I did something simple: rule. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u34	And rule with a different result from yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u35	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u36	Where the honourable Member has failed, we have done it! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u37	In four years and eight Reformary Budgets, it never achieved the intended objective. We, in a budget, without additional measures and no reformative budget, have the lowest deficit in democracy, a deficit of 2, 3 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member should also ask how we managed, because the honourable Member in March 2016 said the following: "If we could all return wages, pensions and taxes and, at the end of the day, the accounts were all right, that would be fantastic". I'm not going to say that much, Mr, I don't think it was fantastic. I think it was just the result of what we promised to do, and we did, with the determination that government action allowed us to fulfill all the commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u38	The honourable Member has come to recommend the vote! We don't forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u39	I would also recommend to the honourable Member that he review interesting statements by his former Minister for Finance that, with a clear intellectual arrogance, he has shown that it was impossible to achieve the deficit below 2, 5 %, 2, 7% and up to 3 %, but now he must recognise that we have a deficit of 2, 3 %, repeat, of 2, 3 %, Mr President! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u40	With more taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u41	Mr Deputy, your speech has only one title: The speech of the bad lose. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I see, sir, that you are finally accompanied by your bench! When the country has a good result, you join, in the bad loss, by the good results of the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u42	Mr. Prime Minister is that he is a professor of the evil loss!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u43	Are you talking about the cut-off of the investment when one year ago you accused us of breaking down the country with the old revenue of increasing public investment and indebteding the country at the cost of that investment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u44	And they've been in debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u45	Mr President, what we have done is to unlock private investment through the Community funds that you have blocked for two years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And having arrived at the government with EUR 4 million delivered to companies, we concluded the first year of governance with EUR 460 million financed to companies to make their investments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u46	What about the new airport? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u47	Are you talking about extraordinary measures? Oh, my God! The honourable Member must be ignoring, of course, that among these extraordinary measures, there was an extraordinary expenditure to pay the 900 million euros that you had retained to set up the 2015 deficit by withholding funds with the overtax of IRS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u48	You don't understand, you don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u49	Therefore, Mr President, the lesson we are taking is that policies are not wrong, they are right, because the measure of policy correction is the result. VV. Ex., cutting wages, cutting pensions and increasing poverty, increasing tax burden, failed. We, reducing the tax burden, returning wages, returning pensions and fighting poverty, meet the goal and have the lowest deficit in the history of our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, there is no disagreement between the Government, the Left Block and the CFP. [[There, there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u50	in this theme of the minimum wage and the TSU, the only political agent who is incoherent with himself is V. Exa and his party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] A year ago you accused us of devaluing social dialogue on behalf of a political agreement. One year ago, he fought the national minimum wage increase and defended the reduction of TSU. Now, it pretends not to be against the increase in national minimum wage and to be against the reduction of TSU.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u51	You're an artist!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u52	A few weeks ago, Mr Marco António Costa said that it was necessary to extend this measure to the IPSS and now not only that it does not extend to the IPSS, as it does not even cover the companies that already covered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u53	It's immoral!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u54	Therefore, who changed in the devaluation of social consultation, who changed in the position of support for companies, who changed in support of the IPSS was Mr Deputy, not the Government, neither the CFP, nor the Left Block, nor the Greens. The Left Block, the PCP and the Greens are against this measure, as they have always been, and they will consistently do what they always said they were doing. [[PSD protests.]] The Government does what it agreed to increase the national minimum wage and does what it committed to the Government Programme, which was to negotiate in social consultation. VV. Ex. He doesn't do anything, he doesn't do anything. It gave a huge reel, because it has a single criterion: to be against what the government does, even though it coincides at some point with what you effectively think. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u55	The real artist!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u56	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u57	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, really, what a monumental gaze at yours about the bad loss! [[PSD laughter.]] So, you, who was a candidate for Prime Minister, lost the elections and just so that the PSD and the CDS would not govern, threw this government down by making an agreement — the whole country knows! — with the Portuguese Communist Party,... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ...with the Left Block, with the Greens Greens Ecologist Party, come to say that we have a bad lose? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, you really need a huge upheaval! But, Prime Minister, we do not have a bad loss, as you must have already noticed, but we are not here to replace the lack of support that you have in the majority that you have generated in Parliament. We're not! We're not! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] I asked you a question and you didn't answer it. You already knew that you would not have the support of the Portuguese Communist Party, nor the Left Block,... [[Not even the Greens!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u58	... nor the Greens to take on the commitment you made in social consultation. of the two: either you do not take social consultation seriously and therefore commit to what you cannot fulfill,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u59	Or don't take the partners seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u60	... or you think you have the possibility, through the majority that supports you in this Parliament, of reconverting the coherence of the parties that are in disagreement with the measure. from these hypotheses, what was it that was on its horizon? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u61	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor. [[Continued PS protests.]] I ask the Prime Minister to begin his reply only when there are conditions of silence. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u62	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I thought that I would take this second opportunity to recognize that, with the policies that this government has followed, the deficit of 2, 3 % that we have had is the lowest of our democracy. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, the Government has done what is stated in its Programme: it has increased the national minimum wage to €557, negotiated in the social consultation, as set out in the Government Programme, and has approved the decree which, in accordance with the law, is the appropriate diploma to comply with this measure. I also see that Mr President of the Republic, in line with what he has always said about the social consultation and the calls he has made for a social agreement, has also fulfilled his function, promulgating the respective decree-law, which is already published and currently in force. From here each shall assume his or her responsibilities, including the Assembly of the Republic and, in particular, the Exa. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u63	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u64	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, what you say is that you have made a commitment in social consultation knowing that the majority who support you in Parliament is not consistent with the measure. After all, there may not be much difference between what you say and what your number two government says about social consultation: that it is a kind of cattle fair and that then in Parliament, the PSD that solves the problem when its partners are not available. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u65	He's not able to understand the differences. It's hard of an ear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u66	Let me tell you, Prime Minister, that it is not so, it will not be so and it will not be so. It is not worth testing this conversation for 2017, since we are at the beginning of the year. I've been in the government and negotiated things with the CDS, which was the party that was associated with the PSD. You do not have a government coalition, you have a coalition in Parliament. Get in there! When you don't understand each other, don't shoot towards the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u68	But I'll leave you two final notes. The first is to tell you that the measure is wrong. And it is wrong because, by institutionalizing a discount for companies that suffer to pay what you decide with the Left Block, you are at the same time blowing up an obvious invitation to the national minimum wage. It is a perversion, even, that a government and a majority who say they want a model of development not based on low wages but on higher wages build an income policy that encourages the national minimum wage. It's deeply wrong. [[PSD applause.]] The second note I want to leave — and with this I am finished — is that I thought that Mr Prime Minister had heard my first answer. The whole country knows that the government deficit reached in 2016 was possible because there was a government before it passed the deficit from 11 % to 3 % and, secondly, because you put into practice a plan b which was given to the magnifying glass by the European Commission, by the Council of Public Finance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u69	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u70	... by UTAO, in this Parliament, that the whole country knows and that only Mr. Prime Minister's propaganda is that he omits. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u71	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u72	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, his speech has two parts: one, in which he disguises the obvious and another, in which he confesses what he really has to confess. What did you first want to disguise? He intended to disguise that it really is against social consultation... [[PSD protests.]] ... and that really does not value what is negotiated in social consultation. Secondly, it seeks to disguise the fact that, from April until now, it has changed its position, because it is now available to make what is normally feasible in April, disallowing its Vice-President, who still demanded the extension of this measure to the IPSS, and who now intend to eliminate the measure not only for the IPSS but also for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u73	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u74	But, moreover, it is wrong: it is not about institutionalizing a measure, because what the decree provides is that it is temporary and limited.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u75	You have to finish, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u76	But above all what you have said here is that you do not accept that there is this measure to compensate for what is really against, which is the increase in the national minimum wage, actually negotiated with the Left Block, actually included in the Government Programme...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u77	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u78	... and subject to a social agreement. It is even the increase in the national minimum wage that bothers it. So we want to take revenge on the companies that have accepted the agreement with the Government on the increase of the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u79	It is now the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, so you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u80	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have listened very carefully to this first part of the debate with the PSD, and it may be good to recall very calmly the following : who invented the reduction of the TSU as a counterpart to the increase in the national minimum wage was the PSD and the CDS, when they were in government. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] last year, when we voted on the reduction of the TSU, the Left Block voted against this measure and it was the PSD that enabled it with its abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u82	So let us see if we understand: the Left Block has always defended the increase in the national minimum wage and has been against the reduction of the TSU of the bosses. The PSD always liked the reduction of the TSU of the bosses, it does not like so much is the increase in the national minimum wage. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Therefore, we know that the Left Block will vote against the reduction of TSU because it has principles and that the PSD will vote against the reduction of TSU because it has no principle! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, for us the reduction of the TSU is a theme and, in addition to the PSD reels, I would like to be able to discuss the content of the measure itself. That's good to keep some ghosts away. First, the lead in reducing TSU does not call into question the increase in national minimum wage. This increase has already been made, as it should be; that is what was agreed on, was what was in the Government Programme. Secondly, it is also good to say that companies do not need compensation for the reduction of TSU to raise the national minimum wage, because it is today below what it was 40 years ago. In fact, over the last 40 years, it has not been updated according to productivity and, therefore, if someone needs to be compensated are the workers and not the bosses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u84	Thirdly, the agreement that may be called into question is not exactly a social consensus, it is an agreement that we already know between the bosses and his steward, who was also used in the troika times for the worst measures that caused social fractures. The Left Block does not see any need to consider that this agreement is somehow mirrored by a social majority. But the main problem is that the TSU reduction measure is bad for the country and for the economy. The increase in national minimum wage is a form of redistribution of wealth in a country with low wages and great inequality, but when we reduce TSU to employers and compensate for this reduction through the State budget and social security, what we are saying is that the workers are paying for the increase in national minimum wage. Therefore, it is a cheating, the redistribution measure of income is cancelled and therefore it is not useful. More: when, repeatedly, in successive years, the reduction of TSU is given to wages that are very low — national minimum wage and now a little more, which goes up to 700 € with additional work — what we are telling employers is that they contract for these low prices, because in the following year we will want a new agreement, we will have a further reduction of TSU and therefore we are compressing the wages below. That is why the reduction in TSU is bad, because it makes workers pay what employers should pay and why it encourages companies to hire for low wages. [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u85	But do you understand or do you not understand? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u86	We understand that we are not defending small businesses; there are many large companies that practice these wages! This agreement serves everything, serves even the biggest abuses of precariousness in the country, because any type of contract can have this type of support. So we're going to be supporting security companies, or surveillance companies, or cleaning companies across the country who practice minimum wages? Oh, my God! The multinationals of temporary work? Oh, my God! Are we going to support, with taxpayers' money, the country's worst work practices? Oh, my God! It doesn't make sense! Mr. Prime Minister, the question I have to ask you is simple. I knew, it's nothing new, that neither the Left Block nor the left parties would support it in this measure. He made this agreement because he thought that he would have some sort of social agreement agreement for Europe to see, but the right has already boycotted him. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u87	So the question I ask you is whether it is not time to abandon this measure so that we do not have this discussion again for next year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u88	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u89	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, this debate is indeed not a novelty, we have already had it and we know each other's arguments. You have told yours, let me now state mine. Firstly, the signed social agreement does not cover only this matter, it covers other matters, which concern the modernisation of the economy, and a very important one, which seeks to avoid the blocking of collective bargaining, since the parties are obliged to not invoke the expiry of collective bargaining for 18 months, thus allowing to create space for something that is absolutely essential, which is to dynamize collective bargaining as a major instrument of valuing workers' incomes incomes and ending with the situation that we have today's labour law, the employers' bodies are to benefit from an expiry, leaving workers unprotected from collective bargaining. This is a gain of the greatest importance and a gain of this agreement. It is true that this agreement also provides for an employment compensation measure with regard to this increase in the minimum wage. As you know, we do not, as a rule, have been in our electoral programme but have disappeared, on the basis of the agreements we signed with the Left Block, the Greens and the CFP — the objective of a generalized reduction in the single social rate. We've given up on that. In fact, the State budget for this year has provided for a programmatic standard which obliges us to make a comprehensive reassessment of these exemptions. Why was she done in this case? As you know, in the course that we have to increase the national minimum wage — the increase is always higher than the inflation rate and always higher than the productivity rate — this year was the one in which the effort required to businesses was greater than in other years. We could have had other solutions, and we looked for them: smoothing the effort so that the increase would be €23 each year and not the extraordinary increase of €27 this year and, for the coming year, only €20.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u90	This, after all, is very well explained! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u91	We have sought other compensations, but this was the possible agreement. Ask me if it was a good deal. I believe that it is, firstly, a good agreement for the State, because the increase in national minimum wage increases the income of social security, either through the discounts of the employer, or through the discount made by the worker himself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u92	Left Block Listens Carefully!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u93	If we are to account for someone who had the national minimum wage and now has this increase, we will see that the effort required to the company was 37, 40 €, because, in addition to the 27 € increase of the worker, he still had to bear the increase in the social rate. With this reduction, what happens is that the company, instead of paying 37 €, will pay 30 €. Therefore, the support you receive, of 7 €, is a small part of the effort that is required of you. You'll ask: but do companies need to? Unfortunately, today's economy is very devastated for the generality of economic operators — for families, but also for businesses. And today we know more precisely what companies are covered by this measure. And what we know is that 56% of these support will be for companies that have less than 10 workers, they are even micro and small enterprises. We know that 80% of these support goes to companies with less than 50 workers, companies that are real micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And only 5% of these support covers companies with more than 500 workers. Therefore, I understand and accept that the measure is questionable, otherwise we would not be here to have this discussion. But I would like to make the following clear: firstly, this measure does not sacrifice the increase in national minimum wage; secondly, with this measure, the State does not spend money, the State benefits less than the increase in revenue it would have had if there were not this measure; and, overwhelmingly, this measure is intended for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises — they are the major beneficiaries. This is our point of view and we have therefore adopted this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u94	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u95	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Left Block has always been available to discuss sources of social security financing and even to use TSU with regard to trading with companies, for example, to charge more TSU for those who use precariousness and long-term contracts. This is a measure that we would like to see implemented. And we can discuss all these matters. [[PSD laughter.]] We are not available for measures that push those who practice the lowest wages. And, Prime Minister, say what you say, all companies will be able to resort to this measure, and that always means a lot of money for the wrong pockets and surely a lot of money to push the wages down. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you another question about an important debate that we have had here last week about the New Bank, which is an open file and which is of great concern to the Left Block. We all know that PSD and CDS, with the help of the Banco de Portugal de Carlos Costa, basically lie to the country, saying that the resolution would not have costs when it is already known that it costs billions of euros. We know more: that the future costs of the New Bank will also in some way always be charged to taxpayers, but it is not because of guarantees that any private interested in the New Bank will be asked for. We have had a debate here in which the following division was clear: on the left, the public control of the New Bank is defended, because since we have paid, we have sent and because we think that this is better for the country; on the right, it is considered, in a dogmatic way, that the best is always to sell to the private and apparently continues to find that it has not yet been enough public money for the private bank and therefore wants to continue cleaning private banks with public money and handing them over to the private. The Socialist Party had a sui generis position: it said it depended on who gave the best offer, what it cost more or less. Mr Prime Minister, if we, taxpayers, have already paid and we will continue to pay the New Bank and knowing that if we sell the New Bank, 70% of our country's financial system is foreign, there will also be no caution, a care to be taken with the Portuguese economy, which requires a decision to have the New Bank as a public bank? We've lost the money. But do we really want to lose control of the financial system? in the Left Block, we believe it is possible to reduce the losses of the New Bank on taxpayers. We believe that it is necessary to do better, that the resolution was wrong, that there were those who had been protected and should not have been protected in the resolution and that there were those who paid what should not have been paid. And this work must be done. But if it is done with the New Public Bank, we can protect public accounts and national strategic interest. If it is done with the New Private Bank, we lose the public money and what we say is that the Portuguese financial system is completely handed over to abroad. Doesn't that bother the government? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u96	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u97	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we share your concerns and, therefore, we have always said, from the beginning, more or less the same. [[More or less the same?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u98	contrary to you, who say more or less the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u99	Firstly, negotiations fall within the competence of the Banco de Portugal. The Government is awaiting the course of the negotiations, does not want to do anything that disrupts the negotiations and will ultimately take a final decision on the basis of the Banco de Portugal's proposal. As I have often mentioned here in the Assembly of the Republic, in particular in response to questions put several times by Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we have not excluded any solution from nationalization to alienation. We do not exclude and are available to wait and evaluate. When the Banco de Portugal formally told us what was the point of the situation and what were the solutions that would deepen in negotiation, we said three things that I would say are three red lines that we define for the future. Firstly, we said that the continuity of that banking institution is essential to the national economy, in particular because of its role in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, solutions that go through dismantling that bank, removing it as a retail bank and changing its profile as a financing bank to the economy are unacceptable to us. Secondly, we said that there is no State available to offer any public guarantee and therefore the State will not provide any guarantee of future risks to any buyer of the New Bank. Thirdly, we said that it was necessary to assess the impact that the result of the operation would have on the Resolution Fund, because this impact would reflect-CL - the charges that the banking system as a whole will have to bear in order to pay to the State the loan that the State has made, and cannot have an impact that is disturbing to the stability of the banking system as a whole. Therefore, there were three red lines that we defined: the continuity of the bank as a national bank of economic support and, in particular, to small and medium-sized enterprises; the absence of any guarantee by the public entity; and the assessment of the systemic impact that it has on the banking system as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u100	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u101	Negotiations are taking place. I hope they have a good result. And, according to this result, we will make the decision, in accordance with a fundamental principle, which is the best solution for better serving the public interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u102	You now have a word on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u103	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would also like to begin by wishing for a good year 2017 throughout the country and by wishing the Government to contribute to that year. Unfortunately, the first signs are not positive. The first question I ask you is whether the agreement on social consultation is already signed by all partners and also by the Government of the Republic. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u104	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u105	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, thought that the year had begun well with the good news that we had a deficit of 2, 3 % in 2016. As for your question, the answer is: yes, it is already signed by all partners. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u106	You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u107	Mr President, Prime Minister, I do not know whether there was any hidden signature between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. because, at 1 p.m., I was with a social partner who had not yet signed the agreement, as well as the one with whom I met at 10 a.m., who had not signed the agreement either. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] It was discussed whether the signature would be public or through the circulation of the document. So I want to ask you if you want to keep that answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u108	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was indeed agreed that there would be no ceremony, that the document would circulate and that we would all sign. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And it's signed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u110	You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u111	Mr President, Prime Minister, you just lied to this House. You lied. In fact, we are getting used to it, because you mind every time you come here. And today you just lied objectively. The agreement is not yet signed. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] But, Prime Minister, this was just an introduction to my question. Mr Prime Minister, you could have doubts on 22 December, when there was the closure of the agreement in social consultation, you could have some doubts about whether that agreement would or would not happen, but today I think you have no doubts, because it has already been said in this House and has already been told to the social communication that you have no basis for fulfilling that agreement. Therefore, it is serious, it is irresponsible, it is easy for you to be signing an agreement when you know, at first, that you do not have the conditions to comply with it. How do you live with this? Your word isn't worth anything! Your signature isn't worth anything! You do not do the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, because you cannot comply with the agreement you have made with them, or you do not comply with the social partners and scandalously weakens social consultation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u112	How will you do that? What are you planning to do? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u113	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u114	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, first of all as regards what is agreed with the Left Block and with the Greens on the timetable for updating the national minimum wage and which is poured into the Government Programme, this is fulfilled. The diploma updating the national minimum wage is approved, promulgated, published and in force. in this month, workers will already receive the new national minimum wage to which they are entitled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards the agreement, the Government is expected to make a decree, which the Government has already approved, which the President of the Republic has already promulgated, which is already published and which comes into force tomorrow. Thus, from tomorrow onwards, it will begin to prevail. And it will continue to force until someone revokes it or until someone approves, in this House, a resolution that will put an end to its validity. The government has fulfilled its share. Mr. President of the Republic has fulfilled his share. The social partners have fulfilled their share. And now, the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will also fulfill your share. And in a democratic regime, with the principle of the separation of powers, the Government obviously respects the sovereign exercise of competence by the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have recently verified that Mrs De Clercq — in fact, with a remarkable sense — said the obvious, i.e., that she was waiting for the publication of the diploma to meet her and take a final position. There were others who did not wait for the diploma to announce their position. We, for our part, will wait quietly. We've done the part that's messing with us. The diploma will come into effect tomorrow and then we will see what happens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u115	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u116	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact I confirm that Mr Prime Minister uses great ease in dealing with serious issues. I have to tell you that the diploma that has been published today says that it comes into force on 1 February, not tomorrow. It's just a little correction. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But let me tell you something else: it was clear today that for the Prime Minister there is a first agreement and a second agreement, that there are first social partners and second social partners. As for the part of the national minimum wage, Mr. Prime Minister boasts that he will be able to meet the agreement and that he will even meet his left-wing partners. But as for the part of the TSU, there is no problem there anymore: it does not guarantee your agreement, it does not guarantee your compliance, wash your hands there, which is like who says « I did what was in my sphere». That I know, that's not what I'm supposed to do in social consultation. And you know why? Because the problem is that, in fact, you do not have a majority to govern, you have an intermittent majority, which is when you want it and which disappears when you want it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u117	In strict terms, you have lost elections — now with 32 % — and it has not yet been inhabited that, in order to pass your proposals, it is necessary to realise in advance that you have support for them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u119	So, Prime Minister, what is shown is that you do not have a stable majority, you do not have a credible majority, you do not have a lasting majority and that we are going to watch more episodes like this. Mr. Prime Minister, strictly, has no way of being there. [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]] But let me tell you one more thing about this matter. The CDS voted against a measure similar to this in 2016, voted against because it is against the financing of a TSU downturn based on social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u120	Did you vote against it? Oh, my God! Even last year I presented this proposal! What a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u121	You voted against, yes sir! Mrs. Deputy, you voted against. [[PCP protests.]] However, the CDS will not contribute, as the Government does, to devalue social dialogue. We understand that social dialogue is important, it is relevant, it is a pillar of our democracy. Therefore, if you are not concerned about rebalancing this injured agreement even before it is signed — which is like your greatest shame — I can assure you that the CDS will present proposals in this House, for which I am going to see how the Socialist Party will vote, to guarantee at least some balance for the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), for small and medium-sized enterprises who have to bear these costs of increasing the minimum wage. I have already announced in this House today that we will certainly present an extension measure of the 0, 75 % that already existed and that exist until the end of this month, but fully supported by the State Budget. I am going to see, in relation to this and the other measures that we are going to put forward here, how the House is going to behave.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u122	The CDS has broken the rope!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u123	Mr Prime Minister, I would ask you to answer this, but I would also like to mention another matter that has to do with debt. Mr Prime Minister spoke to us about the deficit, boasted of the deficit, even though he was proud to go beyond the European Commission — oh, my God! Open... [[PS protests.]] After they criticized us because we were going beyond the troika, they now go beyond the European Commission and are happy with their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u124	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u125	My question is this: why don't you tell us about debt? How much did the debt get in 2016? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u126	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u127	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, for me there are no first and second agreements, the agreements are all agreements.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u128	Oh, yeah...?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u129	Therefore, in the same way that we negotiated a social agreement last year, we published the decree-law and supported the debate here in the Assembly of the Republic, this year we will do exactly the same thing – we signed the agreement-social agreement, we published the decree-law and we will face the debate in the Assembly of the Republic. There is, for us, one part and another.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u130	There's, by the way, there's!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u131	The honourable Member and the honourable Members. PSD Members are not prevented from requesting the parliamentary assessment of the decree-law which has increased the national minimum wage! They could have done it. [[Rice and protests from CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u132	Don't count on us to devalue social consultation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u133	I am glad they did not, because this means finally recognizing that, contrary to what they said last year, the rise of the national minimum wage did not have a negative effect on employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u134	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u135	on the contrary, employment was created and had a positive factor in dynamizing the economy and reducing inequalities. Yes, it has had that effect and that is why we will continue to increase the national minimum wage. She said that companies and IPSS did not need support to support this increase. [[Protests from CDS-PP Members Assumption Crystals and Telmo Correia.]] I understand that they need and therefore I have signed this agreement, so I have adopted the diploma that allows for this reduction. But what political life requires is convictions and rationality. I respect very much who, like the PCP, the Left Block or the Greens, has always been against this measure and continues to be against this measure. I very much respect those who, like the PS, are in favour of increasing the national minimum wage, believe that social consultation should be valued and will support this measure in the Assembly of the Republic. But I do not really take account of those who do not say so today, devaluing today the consultation that yesterday said to value, and do not want to support today the measures that it has supported in the past to help companies and IPSS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] Mrs Assunção Cristas, tell me one thing: what you think when you look at Mr Marco António Costa, who was still a few weeks ago, when we were in full negotiation, said that it required this reduction not only to apply to companies and also to IPSS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u136	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u137	... that it has been boastful that it was thanks to the PSD that this measure covered not only companies, but also IPSSs and that it is now preparing to vote this measure in complete inconsistency with its past and present position? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Marco António Costa and Teresa Morais.]] The question is this, Mrs Deputy. Everyone assumes their responsibilities. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] for my part, I take my own and those of the government with total tranquillity as to what we have to do and what we will do to honour the commitments we have made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u138	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u139	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we have learned that he respects his left-wing partners very much, but does not respect at least some partners in social dialogue. This is very serious, because you, with your attitude, weakens social security, does not respect businesses, does not respect the economy... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ...and, further, it is perceived that you have preferences regarding the parts of the agreement that may or may not be met. But I asked you a very concrete question: how much is the public debt of 2016? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u140	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u141	Mrs Deputy, first of all, does not weaken social security because the diploma, as you will verify, says that the measure will be fully supported by the State Budget, which is set out in 2017 and the remainder in 2018. [[Protests from PSD Members Hugo Lopes Soares and Luís Montenegro.]] Secondly, we do not devalue the social agreement or parts of the agreement of the social agreement. For the first time in 2016 the net debt decreased from 121, 6 % to 120, 6 %. Yes, the net debt has decreased, although it has allowed me to remember here too this small gift. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u142	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u143	Mr Prime Minister, with regard to the financing of the measure, this is not what is written in the diploma, but we will have the opportunity to confer this, but this more lightness. With regard to debt, Prime Minister, the Government's promise when it made the State Budget for 2016 was a debt of 124 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). It will remain above 130 % or 129 %, we will see where it remains. But this is a question for me to ask you, too, how does the Prime Minister look at the behaviour of the debt interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u144	They're rude!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u145	It's just that, last week, something happened that I repeat quite seriously. I know that Mr. Prime Minister says he's not worried, but the fact that he's not worried is right for all Portuguese to worry. The fact that Portugal owes 10 years to an interest of 4, 2 % is a cause for great concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u146	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u147	Mr President, I ask you to have the same tolerance with me that you have had with the other speakers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u148	Exactly, that's what I'm doing. I'm telling you you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u149	Let me tell you, Prime Minister, that in the last debt issue of the previous Government the interest rate was 2, 6 % — 2, 6 %! -, now it's 4, 2 %. See what this costs the taxpayers' pockets.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u150	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u151	See what its erratic policies, in particular the failure to comply with commitments and the failure to comply with the said word at the expense of taxpayers' pockets. And don't say they're all like this, because it's enough to look at the interest in Spain to realize that we were half a percentage point so far and now we're two, five percentage points. That is a matter that must concern you, and much! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u152	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u153	To what effect, Mr. Deputies? [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u154	Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. I call on the Bureau to make an inquiry on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u155	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u156	Mr President, taking into account that Mr. Prime Minister asked me to quote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u157	Did you feel flattered?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u158	... would like the Bureau to ask the Government for information on the cooperation agreement concluded with the social sector for 2017, in order to know whether it has been carried out since we are already in mid-January, what is the expected increase...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u159	This is not an appeal to the Bureau, it is an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u160	...and, by now, it compensates for these costs that were involved. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of the PCP and PS Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u161	Mr President, you did not ask the Bureau an inquiry, you asked the Prime Minister, for what he could have used the time available to the PSD Parliamentary Group for the debate. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u162	Mr President, Prime Minister, spoke about the forum on the progress and positive measures that are under way at the opening of this new year. But I believe that, by valuing progress and what is positive, we should not rest on the problems that remain in our country, at the economic and social level. I begin with the question of low wages. Low wages and, in particular, low national minimum wage are a source of social injustice and poverty, resulting in low pensions and reforms and the obstacle to the economic growth of our country. A painful experience of the previous government's mandate clearly demonstrates this. We note the progress made in the State budget for 2016 and 2017 around the national minimum wage, but the CFP does not abdicate to fight for the value of wages and the realization of the 600 € as a national minimum wage. There are those who resort to the argument of impossibility, but an option is put, the option among those who fight for a fairer wealth distribution, valuing the incomes of work, and those who defend the untouchable profit of capital. It is in this framework that the Government's decision on the reduction of the single social rate should be considered. We are against, as we have in the past, that the increase in the national minimum wage is a currency of exchange for the privilege and blessing of companies, in particular with the reduction in the value of the single social rate, to be borne either by the budget of social security or by the State budget, with the perverse effect already mentioned herein to feed and generalize the use of workers receiving the national minimum wage. They do not come with the argument of small and medium-sized enterprises, because their problems lie in the cost of production factors, in access to credit, in fiscal policy. This reduction in TSU serves large companies rather than small businesses. So, Prime Minister, I would like to say that we have already submitted to the Bureau the request for parliamentary approval to eliminate the bonus from the reduction of the single social rate. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] With regard to the statements by the President of the PSD, I must say that Mr Pedro Passos Coelho and the PSD are prisoners of the mistification that they have created around the political solution found, never assuming that they are before a minority PS government, not knowing or not wanting to know how to read the joint position of the PS and the PCP, the degree of convergence, the level of commitments and the limits it entails. [[Protests from PSD Members Miguel Santos and Teresa Morais.]] There is no contradiction or pirouette to justify these PSD positions. In any case, « those who have a halt don’t get in the way », the PSD that emerges from the situation that it has created. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But finally, the problem is not in Mr. Steps Coelho, nor in the PSD, nor in the mess he got into.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u163	Mr. Deputy, then? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u164	The problem is in the government, which has decided to reduce the single social rate... [[Ah...! Really?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u165	I repeat: the problem is in the government, which has decided to reduce the single social rate, to the detriment of the social security budget and the State budget. Mr Prime Minister, we believe that the issue of the valuation of wages cannot be linked to the question of the single social rate. We think it's a mistake, we think it just devalues the progress achieved even in relation to the national minimum wage. For this reason, this is a coherent position of one face only, one word only, both in 2014, and in 2016... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u166	Get out of there and present a motion of censure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u167	You did not present any proposals in 2016, so you are not having this conversation. History records that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u168	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u169	As I was saying, both in 2014 and in 2016 and 2017 we considered the importance of the revocation of this measure, this blessing that is given. Finally, there is one issue which is important to clarify. It is the government that decides to listen to social dialogue, but it even seems that it is the social dialogue that decides to listen to the government. We are in deep disagreement: it is the government that decides and the Assembly of the Republic is here to exercise its legislative powers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u170	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u171	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we do not rest with the progress achieved in 2016 : we do not rest with the reduction of the deficit, we do not rest with the reversal of the growth path, we do not rest with the reduction of the unemployment rate, we do not rest with the replacement of the salaries that has been achieved, we do not rest with the investment support that has been achieved, we do not rest with the measures to combat poverty that have already been achieved. We don't rest and we'll go on. The path we discussed so much in the Government Programme was towards the progressive increase in the national minimum wage, because we believe it is essential that it rises, not only according to inflation and according to productivity, and that it is an instrument for reducing inequalities. We considered it unacceptable that, at the end of four years of right-wing governance, 10 % of workers were below the poverty line, so increasing the national minimum wage is a fundamental tool for combating poverty among those working. That is why, with this increase, each worker who earns the national minimum wage sees its monthly income increased in net terms by 24 €. He will say: « But this cannot serve as a currency of exchange to lower the single social rate ». We do not invest the terms: we do not increase the national minimum wage to reduce the single social rate, we increase the national minimum wage — as it is already in force — and we negotiated compensation in social consultation, because we are concerned that at the same time we increase people's income and take account of the fragile situation of many companies and the need to continue, as we achieved in 2016, a path of job creation. When, last year, we increased the minimum wage, all right, the European institutions, the Council of Public Finance and all those entities that make forecasts came to say that we would pay the minimum wage increase in job creation. however, we managed to increase the national minimum wage and achieve the net creation of 86 000 jobs. He will say: « It is not proven that it would not have been so without this measure». It is not proven, but we think this measure has contributed to this. The fact is that 80 % of the companies benefiting from this measure are companies with less than 50 employees. We understand that there is no incentive to maintain the minimum wage, because the measure is temporary and does not cover new contracts, only covers contracts which last year provide for the minimum wage. And it was necessary to do so this year, because this is the year of the greatest effort of the entire legislature. I must recognise that the CFP is fully coherent, as is the Green Party and the Left Block, in relation to what I have always said on this matter, and I have nothing to point out. But there is one thing that is right: the coherence of the CFP does not undermine the inconsistency of those who will make this proposal viable, not because they agree with the CFP, but because they simply want to punish those who in social consultation accepted the increase in the national minimum wage. That's what you want, it's pure revenge and it's not because you agree with the PCP! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u172	It's total madness! It's the front escape!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u173	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u174	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, on this issue of the drop in the single social rate and the difficulties for those working, making a common examination of the state budgets that have been approved, such as 2016 and 2017, an effort was sometimes made to discuss the cent, to seek to value labour income. For this reason, we believe that this measure is going to the strain of this effort, of this demand for the value of work and of workers. Mr Prime Minister, this allows me, in this context, to raise a question for you. There are thousands of workers with long careers contributing to social security who have started working and discounting at the age of 14 and at the age of 15—I am talking about hard and exhausting work in the physical, anemic and psychological planes— over 40, 45 years, and generally with low wages. These people have worked their whole lives and cannot require reform because this would mean a considerable cut in their value.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u175	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u176	I would ask you only to read a paragraph, Mr President. Mrs. Members, the argument is always the same: the costs for social security. Why is the state so dry and parked for the workers and always so wide hands for the capital? There was a commitment by the Government by the end of last year to make a contribution to the resolution of this problem. What can you tell us about this, Prime Minister? I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u177	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u178	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, in fact, in the State budget we have all made a great effort to achieve these objectives. We have achieved it not only by eliminating the overtax of the IRS, not only by replacing the salaries of the public service, not only by updating the indexers of social support, not only by replacing pensions, not only by the extraordinary increase in pensions, which will indeed take place this year on a proposal from the CFP. So this is an effort that we have made together and that we will continue to make together. We have also asked companies to make an effort in terms of wages, and hence the objective of updating the national minimum wage up to 600 €. More: we will create conditions for unlocking collective bargaining. In addition, there is a very important measure which is contained in this social agreement, which is the waiver by employers' confederations, which, for 18 months, will call for the expiry of collective bargaining. The honourable Member knows better than I do how many workers in recent years have no longer had any protection in collective bargaining due to expiry, without having been replaced by new agreements or by an extension of any measure of protection. We have 18 months to dynamize collective bargaining and this effort will continue, in particular, to protect those who have longer careers. It is true that we have not been able to complete this work until the end of last year, but we have already had the opportunity to transmit to the CFP Parliamentary Group that, by the end of this month, the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security will present a diploma on the protection of longer careers. Therefore, by the end of January we will have this diploma, because we find it essential to give a horizon of hope and justice for a single and unrepeatable generation, a generation that began to work much earlier than later generations and ours and that, with the increase of the average hope of life and the age of reform, has been achieved by an extension of its own contribution career. It is a generation for which justice must be done, and we will do justice with that diploma. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u179	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u180	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by saying that the Greens also value the good results of the policy change and the adoption of a set of measures that have eradicated an obsolete austerity policy and that has weakened the country and Portuguese families so much. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like you to continue to talk about the TSU. As the TSU is mentioned here in compensation for the increase in the national minimum wage—and that is how the Government sees it and says—I would like to tell you that, according to the calculations of the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) if, perhaps, the national minimum wage had always risen as it should, taking into account all the factors competing for this increase this year, we would be agreeing a national minimum wage around €900. Now, what the government is agreeing is a value in the order of €557. Does the Prime Minister not think that the companies have already been compensated for the non-increase due to the national minimum wage over these years? Do you still want to make up for it? Oh, my God! In addition, the reduction in TSU leads to the generalisation and encouragement of the use of low wages and the hiring with the national minimum wage. And the reduction in TSU for employers puts taxpayers and workers to finance the patronage. Mr. Prime Minister, this is an absolute uncertainty. What is the next step that has already been announced, and what do I think the Assembly of the Republic should take? To present a parliamentary assessment that may hinder the reduction of TSU to the bosses. I would like to tell you clearly that the Greens will vote in favour of the repeal of a measure on the reduction of the TSU. Even knowing that the PSD announces a similar sense of vote by political calculus rather than political conviction, I also want to tell you, on behalf of the Greens, that we hope that the PSD does not change its position, because a result of this kind would be beneficial to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u181	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u182	Mr Prime Minister, I would also like you to remember what is included in the State budget — and the Greens have done so to be there — and that is the following: in 2017 there must be a review of the exemptions and reductions of the TSU. Mr. Prime Minister, you will have us on the leg on this matter during 2017! Here's the promise.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u183	It won't be necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u184	Speaking in compensation, I ask you: what are you giving the government? Oh, my God! Do you now decide to make up for all those who mustn't make up for it? What is the matter with these 18 million — possibly more — to finance the eucalyptus in Portugal? Mr Prime Minister, will there be any compensation for that agreement, and good agreement, which we have done for the non-expansion of the area of eucalyptus in Portugal and dedicated the native species to our forest to strengthen it and create greater robustness?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u185	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u186	I conclude now, Mr President. You'll make up for what? Financing the eucalyptus, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! I think there's an explanation that's due to us and the country. Finally, it is important that the Government, although agreeing late, made an intervention on the subject of Almaraz.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u187	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u188	I conclude now, Mr President. Wanting to participate in the issue of landfill for nuclear waste in Almaraz, what the Greens would really like to know is what the Government is defending about the Almaraz nuclear power plant. It's really your closure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u189	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u190	Mr President, Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, first of all, I will spare you the effort to walk behind my leg...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u191	But I'm coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u192	...and we will focus on executing, serenely, what is foreseen in the State Budget, as we have always done so far. And what is expected is a global re-evaluation of all exemptions, particularly in the area of TSU. This is the first point. Secondly, of course, the views are questionable and I began to characterize the type of companies that benefit from this measure. The type of companies benefiting from this measure are: 80 % of them have less than 50 workers and 56 % have less than 10 workers. The country's economic reality is very negative from the point of view of family income, and that is why we have tried to respond, but unfortunately it is not comfortable on the business side and, above all, it is not comfortable on the side of these companies. What's the effort we've been asking for? If the update was a mere update based on inflation and productivity, the minimum wage, this year, would be gross, at 540 €, varies from 530 € to 540 €. It will be 557 €, which is substantially above what is the mere update with inflation and productivity. If you take into account the actual expenditure of the employer is not € 27, it would be € 37, € 40. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish. What this measure does is, of these 37, 40 €, save all these employers and also the IPSS, as employers, 7 €, i.e. they will pay less than 7 €, but they will pay more than 30 € between what they pay the worker and what they pay the most for social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u193	They were largely compensated.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u194	Social security, with this measure, will not lose money, will receive more money than it would receive if there was no updating of the national minimum wage. It will not receive as much as it would receive, but by sharing this effort, I think we have a balanced result: an increase of 5 % for workers, an increase in the income of social security, and an effort of 30, 4 € for each worker/ for each company in relation to those who have this measure. The honourable Member says: "Well, but it encourages low wages! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u195	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u196	I draw attention to the fact that this measure, firstly, only applies during this year and, secondly, does not apply to new contracts and only to contracts already covered by the national minimum wage and, thirdly, to continue as it was adopted last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u197	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u198	I will now finish, Mr President. If I don't finish now, then I'll find a way to finish. With regard to the eucalyptus, our position is in our agreement and it is, as you know, the diploma on the forest regime which is under public discussion until the end of this month and which prevents the enlargement of the areas of settlement with eucalyptus. What is planned is a measure which does not aim to extend the area but aims at improving productivity in the already occupied areas. What does this mean?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u199	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u200	It is that we have per hectare a very low yield of the eucalyptus, of 5 t/ha, and it is possible, improving productivity, terms less area, less eucalyptus, but with a more productive growth, which largely compensates what is the result of the reduction and containment of the area.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u201	Please conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u202	Therefore, it is not a containment measure, it is a measure to ensure greater efficiency in land use,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u203	You really have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u204	... greater efficiency in eucalyptus planting and supply of the industry of this raw material and to have, simultaneously, a forest with less eucalyptus area, with less eucalyptus and therefore of better quality and more resilient, in particular, to forest fires. Thank you, Mr President, for your condescendence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u205	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u206	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister has chosen the country's economic and financial situation for this debate. For the NAP, environmental protection and natural values are also the basis of the country's economic and financial sustainability. So I would like to tell you about the process of destruction that is taking place on the coast of Alentejo. I am speaking in particular of the almost extinction of the national ecological reserve in the region, because, by analyzing the numbers, that is what this is about. The area of REN (national ecological reserve) in the municipalities of Alcácer do Sal and Grândola was reduced by about three quarters, 75 %. But who benefits from this drastic reduction? Compliance with the law is alleged to be of the highest national interest. But what public interest is this that causes scandalously reducing the ecological reserve area? Who are those interested? Are hospitals or schools built in these areas? The 65 000 ha disaffected are an absurd value which reveals strong suspicions of replacing the territory of the REN for real estate and tourism purposes. An area equivalent to 65,000 football fields for asphalting and concreteing. Mr Prime Minister, do you also agree that this is a case of national interest? On this nebula reduction in the REN area, the IGAMAOT ( General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Territory Order) has already said, and I quote, that it means « to retain reasonable grounds for consideration, by the guardianship, the (...) repeal or administrative annulment of the order of the President of the CCDR Alentejo who approved the new territorial constituency of the REN in the municipality of Alcácer do Sal (...)" and «... of the municipality of Grândola». in the same sense, at the end of July 2015 came the office of then Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u207	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u208	Mr. Prime Minister, do you know what has been going on since then? No one! Nothing has been done. Mr Prime Minister, what justifies the state's passiveness in the face of this gross territorial usurpation and of the common good? We are aware that the current government has not yet expressed itself on the environmental crime that authorizes the irreversible destruction of the Alentejo coast.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u209	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u210	I will finish, Mr. President. What measures will the Government take to contain this environmental assault? What measures will the government take to safeguard what is ours? Mr Prime Minister, will the Government revoke the decisions taken?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u211	Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to the Minister of the Environment, who is abroad, who has asked me to convey to you that he will examine the concrete situation with regard to these two municipalities. With regard to the positions of the National Territorial Commission, which has been the entity responsible for monitoring the delimitation of the REN for these municipalities since 2015, I must say that on the best occasion Mr. Minister of the Environment will give you the answer directly to the concern he has conveyed here, and, as he has transmitted it, we will not fail to share this concern with you, and we will see what is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u213	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr. Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these 15-year debates have enabled us to take into account the times we are living in. So it has been throughout this last year and in particular today, with two particularly impressive signs: on the one hand, a government that exposes itself and which proposes, as its obligation is, and on the other, a sick opposition, taken by denial, especially in the case of the PSD, but which does not exempt the case of the CDS — we already knew that both were bad in the government, we did not know that they were even worse in the opposition! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This debate has shown that it is increasingly difficult to mobilize the PSD for a political dialogue, which is not based on party opportunism. Our desire is, of course, that the largest number of entities, partners and parties can participate in consensus, which are so necessary in our country, but consensus demands clarity, demand seriousness and demand credit from its protagonists, and what we have seen is a huge crisis of credibility in the greater part of the opposition. About the PSD, you no longer know what you think or how you think; with the PSD or you don't tell or you don't know what it counts for. The PSD is becoming a predatory party — a predator of consensus, a predator of trust and even a predator of the image of our own country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what has happened on successive issues, and that is what happened again in the case of the single social rate. Sometimes the PSD seems to neglect the country's external image in the obsession with harming the government. Sometimes it seems that the PSD does not have the least to deny itself, as long as it allows it to deny the government. We always know the positions and positions of our allies on this issue of the TSU and also do not advocate that the institutional headquarters of social dialogue exhausts the social dialogue, the defence of workers' rights and royalties or, much less, it serves to block collective bargaining, but, in fact, the headquarters of social dialogue is essential in valuing the dialogue that should encourage and unite Portuguese society. We have no doubt about what our allies think, what was truly unexpected in this process is that the PSD, in its spirit of denial, now denies the centrality of social consultation. After all, the PSD changes its opinion whenever it does not allow it, as I said, to have the same opinion as the Government. For PSD, social consultation with a PS government is worth zero, social consultation, if it works for a PSD government, it is worth everything! The PS considers it essential to fulfil the commitment of the increase in the national minimum wage and the agreement it has entered into within the framework of social consultation. Our commitment to the financing of social security, our commitment to not allowing a temporary measure of this kind to be a stimulus to permanent recruitment with the national minimum wage, has already been made clear in this debate. And, as we have already said, with the Left Block, with the Communist Party and with the Greens Ecological Party, there is no reason for misconceptions, we all know what we are saying today. The mistake, if we can call it that, is that everyone thought the PSD was what it was and not what it's always being. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a few days ago, as pointed out here, the PSD not only called for this decrease in the TSU as it called for other sectors, including the social sector, to be included in it. The PSD leader changed the Party's opinion. I do not believe that it has done so only to contradict the opinion of the former director of the bankruptcy of the City Council of Gaia, he did so, above all, because he wanted to counter, as it were, the position taken by the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that the PSD is against the national minimum wage, but the position of the PSD is so incomprehensible that there is no social partner who understands it and is the subject of the greatest criticisms of personalities, especially those that have historically always been in the PSD area, and even some Members, who, here, are condescending but that outside this Chamber are much less condescending. The parliamentary leader of the PSD said a few days ago that what connects the left is to oppose the PSD. Yes, Mr President, what I see is that the PSD is not even opposed to this management! There's no psychological whipping on you, the way is really descending. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members and Mr Prime Minister, our country continues to face difficulties that certainly combine with others both at European and international level, but there are, fortunately, many of the successes that we can count on and which, even today, have been the subject of intervention and demonstration in the Prime Minister's initial speech. The Portuguese economy has doubled the growth of the EU average to 28 and almost triple the euro area. We have the largest GDP (gross domestic product) per capita throughout the statistical series of the last 21 years, our exports of goods and services have actually reached the highest value of all time. Portugal in the last quarter accounted for the largest increase in employment in the European Union, seven times higher, and the largest in the last 15 years. Last year, we had less than 100,000 unemployed. Consumer confidence has reached the best value in the last 16 years. The latest highlights of the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) point to the continuation of the improvement of economic activity in services, industry, exports and imports, retail sales, industrial production. The public deficit was achieved at an extraordinary value of 2,3 %. I repeat, 2, 3 %, the country's success mark, the mark of the jealousy of the PSD and the CDS-PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore have progress that must be valued, known and invoked to improve our external image and to prevent negative market movements, such as those that determine very high interest rates today. We do not ignore what is detrimental to this market assessment: our high public and private indebtedness, which we inherited, and the problems in the financial sector, which have also reached this government. That is why we are afraid that we are committed to solving these problems. What depends on us is being done and is being done well! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I conclude by saying that it is in these efforts that we must succeed, without losing the sense of reforming the state, the sense of priority of investment support and the social dimension of our policies in 2017. It is in this sense, Prime Minister, that we urge you and encourage you to continue. We must prove in the country and in Europe that it is possible to be rigorous in financial management and bold in social justice. This must be the great Portuguese conquest, the great conquest of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u215	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u216	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos César, credibility in politics is an essential value...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u217	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u218	... and, in order to restore citizens' confidence in politics, it is necessary for citizens to understand that politicians act in accordance with their convictions and in a rational way. Politicians who react epidermically or politically today say the opposite of what they said yesterday undermine the credibility of politics, undermine citizens' confidence in politics and render a terrible service to democracy and its quality. We ask: what does this PSD reel explain? The answer, unfortunately, he gave her with great warning and precision: jealousy. The PSD has failed the government and has now failed the opposition. Regarding the economy, he left a country in which the economy slowed down throughout 2015 and now sees a country that since 2016 has reversed the curve and is going to resume the acceleration of its economy, having been number 3. last year's quarter, the one that grew the most in the euro area as a whole. The PSD sees the country creating jobs and reducing unemployment after last year having said that, with the government solution we had found, investor confidence would disappear, investment would fall, companies would close, companies would not hire people and employment would pay a hard price for this government solution. What is happening is that not only unemployment has decreased as well as employment has increased and investment has increased continuously over the year. The same can be said of the financial situation. For years we were told that the alpha and omega of politics had to be the reduction of the deficit. They failed in the four years, each year, in the eight corrective budgets, systematically, the objectives to which they had been proposed. But they also failed in the opposition, because they spent the year saying that: firstly, the first budget we approved in this House in 2016 would not be approved by the European Commission ; secondly, the Stability Programme would not be approved by the European Commission ; thirdly, we would not be able to achieve our objectives. They even said that arithmetic was impossible to stay below 2, 5 %, of 2, 7 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u219	3 percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u220	... and up to 3 %. They said it was arithmetically impossible. Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho said that returning pensions, returning wages, paying taxes and having the right accounts would be great.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u221	He called for the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u222	In another statement he even said — look at it! — that he voted in the PS if the PS could achieve and meet the objective of the deficit! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, fortunately there are no early elections, because otherwise Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho would have to keep this promise, he would even have to come here to vote on the PS to honor his word. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, they failed. After four years, the country had crimped, had divided everything and everyone, had put generations in conflict, telling each family that they had to sacrifice their grandparents for a mirific future of their grandchildren and that it was necessary for their parents to suffer so that their children could have some future,... [[Have shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u223	... to have managed to create the greatest situations of social tension, repeated over four years, to have managed to create institutional conflicts with autonomous regions,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... with the authorities, with Parliament, with the social partners, institutional conflicts with all,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... do not now support that the country is in a situation described, of social dialogue, of political dialogue, of good relations between all bodies of sovereignty, of reciprocal respect for the independence and the functions of each one — the government ruling, the Assembly legislating, the President presiding, the courts judging, in total normality. There is a good relationship even with the autonomous regions and local authorities, who see their respective competences, and even with the Constitutional Court, which is still in place, because for a whole year, after many, there was not a single request for constitutional supervision throughout 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is actually what the PSD does not support, and that is why everything is worth it. It's all worth it! And what did we watch? Everyone is reminded of how, a year ago, the then President of the Republic was allowed to place as a condition to impose respect on this Government for social consultation and how we were here, in the Assembly of the Republic, zurzied by Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, because we would increase the national minimum wage without agreement on social consultation. It was wrong, because already last year there was agreement in social consultation! For this year, having agreed in the social consultation, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho washes his hands, says that it is nothing with him and that, on the contrary, those who signed the agreement will have to pay their cost for having agreed with a government that, in the opinion of Dr. Passos Coelho, does not deserve credit for being a partner in the context of social dialogue. It is pure revenge for the social partners! [[P.S.'s applause.]] One year ago, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho was against the increase in the national minimum wage, saying that he was going to put an end to the companies, which would put an end to the economy, which would end the job. this time, he pretends that it is not against the increase in the national minimum wage; now he pretends that the problem is the reduction of the single social rate, for which he was beaten when it was government, which reduced when it was government and which still last year here made it viable, already when it was opposition. More: still a few weeks ago, in full negotiation of the social agreement, we heard senior PSD officials, such as Mr Marco António Costa, say, loud and sound, on all televisions and radios, who demanded that the reduction of the single social rate also apply to the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and not only to businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u224	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u225	Was the PSD against the reduction? Don't! The PSD was not only in favour of the reduction as it even wanted the reduction to cover more entities than those it thought would cover.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u226	You've been unauthorized!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u227	For now, the measure covers IPSS and covers companies and PSD, which wanted more now, after all, it does not want anything, neither for companies nor even for IPSS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is indeed incomprehensible, with rationality and seriousness, the position of the PSD! But the most extraordinary thing is now to realize that what is at stake here is not the convictions, nor the programmatic orientation. What is at stake here is that the PSD is convinced that the agreement that the PS signed with the PCP, with the Ecological Party « The Greens » and with the Left Block was an agreement like the one that the PSD had with the CDS, where each had to put his identity in the drawer and pretend that he had no differences and where each had to give up what he had come to television swear it would be irrevocable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u228	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u229	Now, what is the basis of this majority's understanding does not have to do with this political cynicism,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u230	Did I hear you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u231	... has to do with a serious basis in which each one maintains his or her identity, respects the identity of others, knows and meets what he or she agreed to do together... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I wish I could finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u232	Please continue, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u233	As I said, the understanding of this majority has to do with a serious basis in which each one maintains his or her identity, respects the identity of others, knows and complies with what he or she has agreed to do together and respects what we know we cannot do together. Now, PSD, if you think it creates a problem in the majority and in government stability...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u234	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u235	... by supporting the Left Block or the PCP whenever they take a position or submit a proposal that is not accompanied by the Government or the PS, there is still a risk of serious inconvenience.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u236	I appreciate your conclusion, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u237	This is because we should not forget, in fact, there are different identities and respect for each one's position.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u238	There is no respect for the social partners!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u239	But here we will be waiting and seeing, who knows, one day, the PSD voting a motion for Portugal to leave NATO ( Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty ) or, who knows, even for Portugal to start a negotiation of debt restructuring. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] I'm here to see, Dr. Pedro Steps Rabbit! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u240	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u241	That will be my last sentence, Mr President. Dr. Pedro Steps Rabbit, I must tell you that this time you still surprised me, from now on I am ready for everything! When I vote for the release of NATO or the restructuring of debt, I will no longer be surprised. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-17.u242	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the 15th year debate, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his participation in this debate. The next plenary meeting will be tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: from the first item there is an urgent debate required by the Left Block on public transport. of the second point is the general discussion of bill No. 322 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Create the forest management account ( CDS-PP ) together with draft resolution No 609 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of financial support to forest producers ( BE ). The third point is followed by the assessment of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August which adopts a doctoral recruitment regime designed to stimulate scientific and technological employment in all areas of knowledge[ Parliamentary assessments 25 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 23 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( BE ) ), together generally with Bill No 368 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August giving greater justice and correcting incentives to agents covered by Article 23. o ( Transitional Standard ) ( CDS-PP ). Finally, the projects of lein.o 21 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Consecrates the Third Carnival Fair as a mandatory national holiday ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes) and 369 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, establishing the Third Carnival Fair as a compulsory national holiday ( NAP ), together with draft resolution No 604 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Negotiation into social consultation of guiding principles for specific legislation in order to define which holidays are required to be observed on Monday of the following week ( PSD ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 4 minutes.]]
