ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will do his best to announce the diplomas that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1061 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by investing and modernising transport and infrastructure networks ( CFPs ), which fall to 6. the Commission, and 1062 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends greater support to the Government for forest fire defence investment ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u3	Let us then begin our work today, with the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.os 587 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the transmission of an undertaking or establishment ( BE ), 600 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Clarify and strengthen the rights of workers in the event of a transfer of business or establishment ( CFP ), 603 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by modifying the legal regime applicable to the transmission of business or establishment ( NAP ), and 606 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the transmission of business or establishment ( PS ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming, in this debate, the workers and workers of the PT, who today focus on Parliament, the struggle they have been working to save the company, but also because their mobilization defends all the workers of the country against fraudulent schemes of unscrupulous multinationals. I would also like to congratulate the Subscribers of the Manifesto on the dignity of work, who urged the inspection, the judicial system, the Government and Parliament to act now on what is happening in PT / Altice. Yes, the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) has already identified more than 100 violations of labour laws, particularly related to the terror installed by moral harassment and emptying of functions, but it also has to pronounce itself on the misuse of the figure of the « transmission of establishment ». the government has a certain word, which has taken a long time, about a multinational who is making chacota of the laws of the Republic and destroying a strategic company. And Parliament must, among other things, shield the law of this kind of gross and perverse manipulations of a mechanism that has been created to protect workers and ensure the maintenance of their employment and not to weaken them and promote a skilfully planned death of their employment contracts. The project we present and discuss today is not a specific law on PT, it is first of all a legal clarification against fraud. A fraud facilitated by the indetermination of the concept of 'economic unity', by the scarcity of the duty of information, by counter-ordinations which, in such light, make labor crime compensate, by a legal formulation which is not immune to the distortion of the objective of maintaining the rights and contracts of those working. by delimiting and clarifying the concept of « economic unit » as an autonomous unit, the Block prevents fraud which is to fictionate as « transmission of establishment », which in practice is a transfer of some workers from certain departments to service providers, as is happening in the PT. by assuming illegal dismissals that take place after transmission, we protect workers against these dismissals. by extending the content of the right to information, we give them guarantees and defense instruments. But in addition, by consecrating the worker's right of opposition, as happens, for example, in Germany, what this project declares is that the worker is neither a servant nor a commodity. by providing for the possibility of representative structures of workers to request an opinion from the Ministry of Labour, without which this operation will be prevented from taking place, we are responsible for the State and giving concrete instruments to prevent fraud. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude this speech with two compliments. First of all, the Portuguese Communist Party and the PAN, because they have put together their projects, which we generally subscribe to, to this initiative of the Left Block. Secondly, the Socialist Party, because by also dragging a project, not only does it contribute to this debate but, in practice, burys this absurd idea that changes to labour legislation would be dependent on prior visas of employers or validation in social consultation. As it is demonstrated today, they are not! Here we are, changing the Labour Code, in the only place where there is legitimacy to do so: the Parliament of the Republic! [[Congratulations from BE.]] With this gesture, we give a signal to multinationals such as the Altice that Portugal is not a « banana republic » and we give a signal to the workers that they can count on Parliament to defend them against the « abutres ». [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u5	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The existing legal framework for the transmission of business and establishment results largely in the transposition of directives in order to frame and facilitate merger and acquisition processes. These directives, although they do not fully guarantee the rights of workers, lay down certain conditions for safeguarding their rights. But life has confirmed that these rights have not been respected, and the recent example of PT / Altice is very revealing of this. For almost a year now, the Altice has been launching a gigantic operation of blackmail, repression and harassment on PT workers. To maximize profits, he decided to fire thousands of workers. First, he tried to pass the costs of this operation to the State. Having failed to achieve this, he set up a strategy similar to that he did in France : he placed hundreds of workers in « rooms available » of a « support unit », keeping them unoccupied or attributing to them completely inadequate and unacceptable functions, imposing at the same time the so-called « friendly » and « low-cost » terminations. This whole process of repression and harassment has been accelerated with the current fraud, which is based on the misuse of the rules of the transmission of establishment. To avoid the node of a collective dismissal of hundreds of workers, which always stains the image of a multinational, Altice is setting up multiple fraudulent operations to deresponsibility of workers for service providers. Make it clear, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the law and the Constitution do not allow the Altice to do what she is doing! But it is not enough to apply fines that are automatically converted into accounting costs. The Altice can and should be stopped because it is not a true transmission of establishment. The workers have courageously defended their rights, and from here we welcome another journey of brave and determined struggle in defense of their rights but also in defense of a strategic company for the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] It is important to establish justice in line with their expectations. Parliament cannot accept that PT is definitely liquidated as a large and strategic national telecommunications company and cannot be passively assisted by the aggressions currently under way against the rights of workers. With this bill, we propose to ensure the maintenance of all contractual and acquired rights, including remuneration, seniority, professional category and functional content, and also the social benefits acquired. We propose to guarantee the application of the collective contract in force at the date of transmission of the company or establishment. We also propose the express guarantee of the right of opposition to the transmission of establishment, without loss of rights. We propose the express guarantee that the implementation of the transmission depends on a binding opinion of the Ministry responsible for the area of work, before a phase of compulsory negotiation with the representatives of the workers. We also guarantee the presumption of the illegality of the dismissal promoted at the time of transmission of a company or establishment within two years. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is not a change of operator, the question is a change of policy, and today we have an opportunity to do so. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u7	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Congratulating the Left Block on this schedule, we also discussed today a draft law of the NAP which aims to amend the current regime of transmission of company or establishment, provided for in the Labour Code. Although we consider it beneficial that the employment contracts accompany the company or the establishment transmitted by protecting workers from the employer's will, experience has shown that some fragility of the scheme can lead to abuse, which is why the legislator is looking for solutions to avoid any fraudulent situations, we propose three amendments, the first of which is the allocation to the worker of the right of opposition to the transmission of his contract of work. For no one to be forced to work in a place where he does not want and for an entity other than that for which he agreed to work initially, this right, permitted by the directive on this matter, is already defended by Community and national jurisprudence and must be enshrined in our legislation. Secondly, we propose to amend the concept of economic unity. Marked by a huge abstraction, this concept can be interpreted as conferring the nature of economic unity on companies that, although they have a given organisational structure, do not have any economic viability, working on the full dependence of another company. Our amendment aims to demand that the economic unit be transmitted sustainably and perform functions autonomously in relation to the transmitter. The third amendment is the requirement to issue an opinion by the Ministry responsible for the area of work on the legal admissibility of the transmission of the undertaking or establishment. We believe that these amendments that we now propose are fair and balanced, insofar as they strengthen the rights of workers, respect for their individual freedoms and dignity, following Community and national jurisprudence, and safeguard the constitutional principle of freedom of economic initiative that the employer holds, continuing to be able to define the destination to be given to his company. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u9	To present the PS bill, Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party presents a draft amending the legal regime applicable to the transmission of a company or establishment. As is known, the transmission of company or establishment is currently regulated in Articles 285. a 287. the Labour Code is also subject to Council Directive 2001 / 23 / EC. It is simply what we want with this amendment. With the existing regulation, it is intended to maintain the rights of workers in the event of transfers of undertakings or establishments. With the amendment we propose, we want to ensure that a legal figure which safeguards jobs is not used in a manner contrary to the rights of workers, generating a negative case-law. This House should not legislate on the basis of particular cases, and that is why we are presenting a general proposal which draws the best from the experience gained by the national and Community legislator and from the results of the inspection actions of the Working Conditions Authority. The project we bring here results from this global assessment but we do not ignore, because we cannot and should not ignore, the bad practices that unfortunately have also existed in the application of the law that is still in force. If the improvement of legislation has no retroactive effects, it is our duty to ensure that failures are corrected for the future... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u11	...and that those who today overthrow the law to override labor rights know that we are careful and that we will intervene to prevent them. The reports that have come to us from bad business practices in the transmission of establishment do not leave us indifferent. It is unacceptable and intolerable that some companies have used this figure to save compulsory social charges, to harass workers and to lay off without paying what is due. We are careful and say from here that all these practices deserve our censorship and opposition. Portugal has its own working rules to be complied with and not to be overturned. If someone uses any « needle hole» to escape their responsibilities, we are here to cover it and prevent it. The proposals and the changes we want to make include the densification of the concept of economic unity, the strengthening of the transferor's solidarity responsibility, his duty to inform the guardian, the corresponding counter-ordinations for non-compliance with these duties, and the extension of the duty of information and consultation, ensuring that workers have access to all the content of the contract concluded between the transferor and the acquirer. These are the reforms that the PS endorses, promoting continuous improvements that safeguard social balances and structural rights of a decent society, such as that of labour stability. It is not too much to remember that there is only legislation of work to safeguard the weakest part of the labour relationship, which is the worker, so the reversal of this logic is a subversion of our social contract and will always have the firm opposition of the socialists. when we present this project, which will change that of the Labour Code, in line with other amendments we have already made, we again deny the right, who accused us of having a secret, obviously non-existent agreement, so that we do not move into the labour law. We want the maximum social dialogue. The PS is historically the party that has most valued the consultation and we hope that everyone will participate in the public consultation process, but we do not replace our responsibilities for any other. We hope that everyone in this House will be accompanied by this option in order to defend the stability and rights of those who work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u12	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the reading that Greens make of the initiatives under discussion, we can say that they have a common motivation and purpose. The motivation stems from the need to protect workers, in particular by ensuring the maintenance of their rights, in the event of transmission of a company or establishment, and the purpose is precisely to respond to this need, through legal mechanisms sufficiently capable of guaranteeing the rights of workers, where there is a situation of transmission of an undertaking or establishment. As it is known, the legal regime in force concerning the transmission of undertakings or establishments results from the transposition of two Community directives. And although the directives have not been built, and much less planned, to protect workers, but rather the mergers and acquisitions of companies, they still enshrine some, few, elements of some relevance to the interests of workers, we are talking about the right to be informed and consulted through their respective representatives. It follows that, when these processes occur, even the poor rights of the workers provided for in the Directives are respected, which is an abusive and even fraudulent use of the rules governing the transmission of undertakings. In other words, current company transmission standards are now literally used by companies to ignore and violate workers' rights, to remove any application of collective bargaining and to hide or disguise dismissals. The case of Altice is very clear in this respect: the Altice is brazenly and with an absolutely unacceptable arrogance, to use these rules to break free from the obligations it was subject to when it bought PT. Having failed the plan, which was to push the purchase charges to the State, Altice handed over plan b, which places the workers in the so-called « support units » without any occupation, to impose contractual terminations with the workers at a balance price and to which it is called « friendly terminations ». Now, this attitude of the Altice, in relation to its workers, is to all titles, unworthy and illegal. The repression, threat, coercion and harassment that Altice is doing to her workers must have a legislative response and, in our view, this House cannot pretend that nothing happens, that everything is fine, that everything rolls on wheels. in this sense, we follow the proposals that somehow tell Altice and all the companies that use this file to fire workers or to escape their contractual and legal obligations what is required to say. And what is required to say to Altice and other companies that have the same behavior is the following: « My gentlemen, the recreation is over. We will respect the workers and we will respect the law. Do not keep on seeking. ” In conclusion, I just wanted to greet the workers of PT who today once again manifest themselves in defense of this great strategic company for the country, which is PT. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u14	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen standing up to do the favor of sitting down or leaving the Chamber. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today in this House a set of initiatives aimed at changing the legal regime of transmission of establishment or company and, first of all, I want to say that the PSD will not allow it to become an ideological debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u16	No, it's a gastronomic debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u17	It is that we are a few weeks away from the elections and the Left Block, and this is the last debate before the actual elections, has scheduled for today the discussion of this issue. Soon the trailer came the PS, the PCP and the NAP present alternatives, they say, to these bills. First of all, I ask: what are you arguing about? See who gives more to whom? See who cares most about whom? Nothing more hypocritical, nothing more electoralist. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u18	And I'll explain why. Mrs. Members, first of all, there has been legislation since 2009 — at the time the Minister was the current Minister Vieira da Silva — in which a directive was transposed to harmonise legislation. With this directive, the law expressly states that it intends to enshrine and respect the rights of workers in the event of transmission of establishment. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to say that if there is no compliance with workers' rights, we are not faced with a need to change the law, we are, yes, with a need to monitor the law! [[PSD applause.]] If there is a company that does not comply with the rules for the transmission of establishment, that company must be monitored. The gentlemen. Members are here, in an act of true hypocrisy, presenting these initiatives to make PT workers believe that they will solve the problem. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say again: nothing more hypocritical! This is fooling the workers! I will explain to you the two reasons why this is misleading workers. I ask, if we are faced with a violation of the law — indeed, you, when you presented your initiatives, and just read the various expositions of reasons, speak in violation of the law — why do you want to make more laws?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u20	So, if it's a violation of the law, shouldn't the ACT be allowed to monitor? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u22	That is what you must be concerned about. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't fool the workers! They don't deserve this, they deserve all respect. That's because, sirs. Members, if any amendments are made following these draft laws, this amendment will not be valid for the situation of these workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u23	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u24	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u25	This amendment will apply to the future, because the law has no retroactive effects, Madam Member! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u26	You don't know? Oh, my God! Tell the workers the truth! Tell the workers that what you are doing is pure electoralism. Tell the workers that you are here in a real act of hypocrisy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u27	Now, and even to finish, I want to tell all workers, all without exception, that with this Parliamentary Group they can always count on,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u28	Oh, is it? Oh, my God! [[Mr José Moura Soeiro's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u29	... as they've always told.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u30	Since when? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u31	And if there's any need...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u32	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u33	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, if there is any need to clarify the law, yes, we are, as we have always been, available to clarify the law. Don't throw sand for the workers' eyes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u34	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block took the initiative to schedule amendments to the Labour Code to modify the legal regime applicable to the transmission of undertakings and establishments. The authors say that with this initiative they will solve the problems of PT workers. Let us be clear: the situation of PT workers has been worrying about the CDS for quite a while. In fact, since the time that a PS government has been complicit in the destruction of the company. And what does the Left Block want with these proposals? To create a system of control of the Portuguese economy which clearly violates the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u36	Oh, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u37	The transmission, sale of an undertaking or establishment shall depend on the authorization of the Government, a binding opinion of the Government, i.e. breaching Article 62. the Constitution, which enshrines the right to private property and its transmission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u39	More: the law will only apply to the future, so it will not solve the problem that PT workers have today. In fact, it is the inspection activity, and an effective inspection activity, which can produce effects. If there's a violation of the law, as they say, check. You are the government. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u40	We do not fail to note that PS, PCP and PAN have, moreover, drawn their initiatives to such a unfortunate locomotive, without public consultation, compulsory, without going to social consultation, seeking to simulate that they have more concerns than we with the workers of PT. Where is the Prime Minister's statement, which is a good time to stabilize labour law? And the Prime Minister's word that there would be no change in labour legislation without social consultation? Was it not a word given, an honest word? Oh, my God! I think we're clear about what the PS word is worth. The CDS is always available to improve the law, it is not available to use PT workers as an electoral weapon. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u41	For a second speech, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Clara Marques Mendes mentioned here that the parties proposing these amendments and these projects are having ideological positions. Madam Member, welcome, this is even a space of ideological divergence, of difference between parties and, in fact, there are ideological differences between these parties and between the PSD and the CDS, it would be bad if it were not. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] The Assembly of the Republic even wants to address these ideological differences and, according to the interventions we have heard here by the PSD and the CDS, the workers who attend this debate, those interested in this debate, certainly understand the ideological differences that separate us. They say we're fooling the workers; we don't understand very well why.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u43	I explained it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u44	He didn't explain! We cannot understand the contribution of the PSD and the CDS to improving an objective violation of the spirit and of the stabilized jurisprudence of the transmission of establishment, which is being made under our eyes. And the Members are not blind, they are not deaf, they are not dumb. So we are here to speak, to see and to intervene in defense of those who voted in us, to defend their rights as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u45	So are we!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u46	Therefore, the workers who count on the PSD, the workers who apparently count on the CDS, what they want to know today is whether or not you vote in favour of these projects and whether or not they are available to improve these projects with your contributions, in public consultation and in specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u47	Also for a second intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD calls for a timetable. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes knows very well that no one was still talking about PT's problem and, almost a year ago,... [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] ... the PCP denounced the blackmail and harassment maneuvers in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] The honourable Member knows well because she heard here, in the Assembly, members of the Government, the Inspector General of the Act ( Labour Conditions Authority ), the former PT administrator, the PCP requirement. Therefore, you well know that for more than a year now the CFP has been reporting this unacceptable situation in PT.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u49	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u50	More, Mrs Deputies : on the PCP side, we are deeply committed to finding a solution that prevents and immediately breaks down the ongoing process in the PT and finds a solution for the more than 130 workers who have already been transferred, because we are not happy to say that this is only for what will come. Don't! It is necessary to block and safeguard the rights of more than 130 who have already been transferred. Therefore, the CFP will have enough creativity and political will to find a solution to this situation. I'm telling you more, Mrs. Member, for us...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u52	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Altice, in the light of today's law and in the light of the Constitution, cannot do what you are doing. It is a fraud you are doing, in the light of what is already in force today. But we understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u53	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u54	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, we understand that it can be clarified, from here on forward, what other companies might want to do. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Altice group and Patrick Drahi count on the PSD and the CDS, PT workers can count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u55	You have the floor, too, for a second speech, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u56	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u57	But? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u58	... consistent with Pedro Passos Coelho, understands that when a multinational makes a sham of the law of the Republic and fraudulently uses the law to proceed with a headless dismissal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u59	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u60	... nothing can be done, nothing must be done, except to kneel before the power of this multinational, this abutre fund, the Altice, which you gave here today. [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u61	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u62	on the contrary, we think something needs to be done. And something is inspection, certainly, but it is also changing the law. And it is not worth this nonsense that Mr.António Monteiro here said about the Constitution. [[CDS-PP protests.]] They are total nonsense because labour legislation already provides that there are opinions of the Ministry of Labour in the case of collective dismissals, for example. Therefore, it is not about creating a new figure, but about applying to this situation. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Now, Mrs Deputy, do you not know the manifesto signed by many figures of Labour Law that tells this Parliament that it is necessary to change the law?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u64	Have you not read the book of the Judicial Studies Centre that identifies the fraudulent use of this mechanism and makes suggestions for the amendment of the law?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u65	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u66	And what did they do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u67	Mrs. Member, everyone has already noticed what's going on and the need to change the law. Only the PSD is that it hypocritically pretends not to see to defend interests that are all less those of the workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u68	Mrs. Members, who have reached the end of the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein. 587 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ), 600 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), 603 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PAN) and 606 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ), we move on to the joint discussion of draft resolutions 1047 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote investment in rail and road infrastructure with a view to improving the mobility of citizens, territorial cohesion, competitiveness of enterprises and environmental sustainability ( CDS-PP ) and 1051 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommendation to the Government on the Strategic Plan for Transport and Infrastructure ( PETI 3 + ) ( PSD ). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u69	Mr President, this first time that I speak in the new legislative session, I would also like to welcome the whole Parliament, all colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The CDS understood well, at this stage when we heard a challenge from the Government on the need to discuss widely the issues of public works, including infrastructure in the field of transport, signaling and recalling what has already been established and that exists to be fulfilled and also recall some relevant projects that have been presented in due course by the CDS and, moreover, by the other parliamentary benches in relation to important aspects. I am referring, for example, to the West Line or the Vouga Line, but the power-CL- also refers to issues such as those of the Mondego subway, the IC35 metro, the Cascais Line, the railway on the most related axes of the flow of goods and our exports from Aveiro / Salamanca to Caia / Badajoz / Sines. I want to tell you that, in our view, in addition to having to discuss widely what is to come, it must also be recommended to the Government that, by now, comply with what has already been appropriately consensualized in PETI. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u70	We cannot spend all our time on discussions that, in fact, generate consensus for later, these consensuss do not give rise to effective and prompt execution. In fact, today is news of the low implementation of the Community funds, including the financing of some of these proposals that the CDS brings here today and recalls. But, as time does not end in 2020 and as we must in fact consider in time the projection of the next Community funds that the Government is beginning to discuss in Brussels, we also intend to bring our reflection on two issues, one of which has been brought to Parliament by other banks and which has merited the acceptance of the CDS, relating to the expansion of the Port Metro, with the link of Vila d’ Este la Gaia, with the passage through the Dragon Stadium by Valbom, Lagarteiro and Cerco, two neighborhoods in the Port, and still the extension of the wall to Trofa and another about the Lisbon Metro. This proposal, as you know, has history. Moreover, I remember the Secretary of State for Transport, Ana Paula Vitorino, in 2009, to present a proposal for the extension of 30 metro stations. The CDS took up all existing studies, reviewed them, compared them with cities and proposed a planned, phased increase, and until 2030 from the Lisbon metro network, which goes through closing mesh between some stations and also making expansion a priority to a totally de-growthed area, which is the western area to Algeria. We understand that this and the others are well thought-out projects that should merit the consensus of this House and that is why we are available to work, making these recommendations to the Government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u71	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This matter of infrastructure and transport is very important for the PSD Parliamentary Group. We are available to discuss the post-2020, but it is essential to do what is planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u74	We bring this issue to the debate because we believe that these investments will allow for more development, more sustainability, more efficiency, more competitiveness, better environment and more decarbonization. But first of all, it is essential to put an end to many lies that are going around. It is essential to end the lies and the historical blackout that some find themselves doing. It was the PS government led by José Socrates who chose to enter a cut of 794 km on the railway in the Memorandum of Understanding with the troika. I will be clearer: a cut of 794 km on the railway lines in the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u75	You've applied it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u76	The railway network was specifically restricted to Braga / Faro, Beira Alta and Beira Baixa. All the others would be amputated. These data were presented in a study led by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Works at the time — the Government of the Socialist Party that you support today — a study conducted in the wake of the REFER. It was a document I referred to... [[Mr. BE Heitor Sousa's laughs.]] Mr. Member, I remember well what was written at the time on www.esquerda.net. It was a document that presented this wonderful phrase: « presented to the troika as an effective measure to reduce public expenditure ». It's going to tears! I repeat: it is to go to tears! So stop lying, stop fooling the Portuguese. The previous government in 2011 lifted the ashes of bankruptcy and the ruins of the famous TGV (Train à Grand Vitesse) the Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure and left for this Government PETI 3+, approved in Brussels, with identified projects, launched projects and all calendarled. PETI 3 + establishes a set of priority transport and infrastructure projects totalling more than EUR 6 billion. These projects were understood and worked in harmony with a set of business, associative entities, with a set of academics, but also with the approval of the Socialist Party. But today, what do we have from a government that has been in office for two years? We have no lines, no trains, no infrastructure, no transport. In fact, we have problems that have been aggravated during this year. I give a concrete example: the relocation of the compositions « 592 », which served the inter-regional trains between the Queen and Coimbra Caldas, in the West Line, more specifically for the Douro Line. So, ladies. Members of the Left Block and the PCP, are you quiet? Don't they say anything? [[Nothing!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u77	We are waiting for you to say anything about your government. We want the government to undertake to implement infrastructure investments. We want this Executive to undertake to implement the investment projects that are under way, including the Mining Line, the Sines / Caia line, a set of railway and road infrastructures, the Vouga Line, the West Line, as it is a set of investments that are scheduled and planned. The PSD submitted this draft resolution that recommends to the Government the implementation of a plan of investments in transport and infrastructure, approved by the former Executive but supported by the Socialist Party. It makes no sense to discuss the future when we still have a gift to deal with. Parliament is specifically aware of the success rate of PETI 3 +. You know little, unfortunately. We know that of the 30 largest projects planned, five are completed or are already being completed. About the rest, we don't know anything. Tell us what the execution is and what the projects are! We don't know! The PSD has always been ready and available to cooperate and agree with the Government on fundamental issues, not only in infrastructure, but in other areas and in other areas that we believe are necessary for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u78	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u79	The country needs consensus for structural reforms, which are important for the growth and development of the country. It is good to treat these matters with great seriousness and rigour, which is what you lack. We are available to discuss the post-2020, but it is essential to do what is planned back. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u80	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to say that the PSD and the CDS did not resist the temptation to bring the electoral campaign to the Assembly of the Republic... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u82	... and, with this, presented two diplomas that are two long lists of investments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u83	Even the gang pants brought in!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u84	...in an attitude that truly electoral, elective, allow me to say so. However, I would like to need some aspects which are under discussion in this debate and which deserve clarification. First of all, it is good to say that the Socialist Party has never called into question the work of identifying investments that was done by the previous Government. He did not question it because this has been the thought of the Socialist Party, which considers that planning investments should be made in the medium and long term. It did not make sense to change the work that had been done in the past and which, in fact, had the contribution, like the honourable Members. Members know, of the Socialist Party. But, in the interest of truth, it is necessary to clarify more, saying that the previous government and, in some way, these diplomas presented today, either from the PSD or the CDS, reveal something that the people usually say, that it is « having more eyes than belly». Why is it “to have more eyes than a belly”? Because you know that, in practice, with regard to previous investment planning, you had a huge financial irresponsibility, I would say, financial inconsistencies. [[PSD laughter.]] Why did that happen? Because, as you know, and you know, the investment plan agreed on with investments of EUR 6 billion, and you anticipate and announce a co-financing of EUR 2700 million of European funds. This has been announced by you several times. What was later found was that in the financial programming of the European funds negotiated by the PSD Government and the CDS, only EUR 1200 million were there. In other words, you presented a plan of EUR 6 billion, with a deficit of EUR 1400 million. So they left this to the Government of the Socialist Party, which obviously had to look at this plan, adjust it, find priorities and options that were more appropriate in view of this irresponsibility of the Social Democratic Party and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u86	More: Mrs Assumption Cristas referred to various projects of national interest. She also knows that her Government in the past did not account for these projects of national interest, namely those 20 metro stations she proposed or even the Cascais Line, which has also been mentioned here several times. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it does not stop being loaded that you propose a huge list of investments, without their proper financial cabling, and still above them are absolutely electoralists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u87	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u88	... because the elections are coming soon to put an issue on the table which must be dealt with with with thought, with moderation and, obviously, with a sense of state and responsibility, which the CDS and PSD have not demonstrated in these diplomas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u89	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has always underlined the strategic and indispensable nature of a public investment of quality, from the outset in the modernisation of transport infrastructures, the quality of life of populations, the creation of wealth and development. For years, we have been talking alone, denouncing budget cuts, deinvestment, abandonment of regional development and territorial cohesion, and facing those who, just like the PSD and the CDS, have become diabolical of public investment. In this Parliament and in this political framework, we have never stopped raising the question of public investment and the need for strengthening in the debate on economic policy, so we reject these manoeuvres of demagogy and electoralism and we tell the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, who saw them and who saw them! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u91	in the government, they blocked the connection to Reboleira and delayed the extension of the Arroios station and now defend 20 new metro stations. They delayed and prevented investments in the Cascais Line and now they say it is a priority. They cut into public investment 36 % in four years; they cut into company budgets; they stole wages and workers' rights; they banned staff admission; they blocked maintenance and investment in fleets and equipment; they closed lines and careers; they increased prices and tariffs; they delivered businesses and services to economic groups and they would have gone further if we had left. But, as we have elections at the door, they expect memory to be short and sell promises to the mile. Even the subway of the Wall for the Trofa come here without knowing where the land is! [[PSD protests.]] No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, they don't count on us for this sad show. There must be a serious approach to this subject in a medium and long-term vision in regional and national development, with a policy for investment and development of the transport, logistics and their infrastructure sector, strategic and structural in the economy, in the planning of the territory, in the development of regions and with the efficient use of energy. We draw attention to the proposals of the CFP, drawn up at the initiative presented at the Assembly of the Republic, which at the time and not now will be dealt with, through our draft resolution No 1061/ XIII, by the investment and modernisation of transport and infrastructure networks, with options that include the adoption of an emergency programme for investment in public transport already for next year, as well as the development and development of a national transport plan, integrating all modes and subsectors. We place priority in collective and public transport, valuing it on individual and private transport, through appropriate incentives to promote the reliability and safety of the operation, strengthening intermodal character and metropolitan articulation, priority to rail mode and, in particular, to the modernisation and electrification of railways, the incentive to transport goods by rail, the launch and relaunch of maritime and inland freight transport, the increase of passenger river traffic, the reactivation of the merchant marine. Finally, we would like to stress with all clarity that the reconstruction of a strong public sector is an indispensable condition for development and sovereignty, with the recovery of the public control of the sector and its infrastructure, ensuring its strategic role in this area. There are already millions for PPPs (public-private partnerships) and ruinous businesses for the people and the country, and enough for demagogy, electoralism and political hypocrisy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u92	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are called for a debate that constitutes an authentic electoralist entertainment maneuver of the PSD and the CDS. The PSD and the CDS address this debate with the proposal for an autistic policy in relation to all that the Assembly of the Republic has already done in this legislature. I don't know if the Members and the Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS recall that on 19 July, in this same Plenary, a number of public investments for transport modes were discussed and voted for transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u94	Precisely! How could we have forgotten? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u95	And at that time, the electoral perspective that is present in your proposals today was not present but, rather, a set of proposals and projects which the various banks had put in the discussion of this plenary so that public transport, especially passenger transport, was improved, developed on the basis of absolutely urgent and necessary investments, given the state of degradation that the various modes of transport have suffered in recent years, solely because of the responsibility of the previous government, PSD and CDS. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS here, in the Assembly of the Republic, propose an investment role without even having the concern to balance their public transport investment policy, which they have developed for four and a half years in this country, and which has led to the complete destruction of most of the public transport system, especially of the passenger transport system. And why? Because the gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS are making a systematic mistake, which is to consider that the Strategic Plan on Transport and Infrastructure 3 + ( PETI 3 + ), which your Government has approved, is the strategic response to the development and defence of the transport system at national level. It's not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to make a highly critical balance, it is necessary to reject the Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure that you approved, because this plan had a basic error: it was only thought about the transport of goods and simply ignored the transport of passengers. Your policy for passenger transport was one: the total and systematic privatization of all modes of transport. That is why the Strategic Plan on Transport and Infrastructure has virtually nothing on passenger transport policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u96	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u97	I shall now conclude, Mr President. On the contrary, we put to the vote at this same Legislative Session two projects that have merited the defence of the populations by giving passenger transport the importance that the populations have claimed, including - in the Railway 2020 programme, which is something that none of your banks, the PSD and the CDS, refers to. It is as if the 2020 Railway programme did not exist and as if it was not necessary and urgent to re-qualify the western railway line or to fully re-qualify the Vouga railway line. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the opening of this Legislative Session, the Greens chose to make a political statement just on rail transport. We have done so because we believe that it is a priority on the Greens' agenda, but it must also be a priority on Parliament's agenda. in this Legislative Session there must be a strong commitment by Parliament to reverse the investment logic for rail transport. We say this for a number of reasons: because we have an effective responsibility for taking measures that contribute to mitigating the phenomenon of climate change, and the issue of public transport is crucial for this response and within public transport, rail transport is even more decisive for this effective response; and we also see it as a priority because our country has indeed a regional and territorial asymmetry that has been encouraged by successive governments and which is, in the perspective of the Greens, unqualified. This issue of regional asymmetries is always present in the political discourse, but when we go to decisions and practical measures they end up contributing to the promotion of this lack of territorial cohesion. However, rail transport has a crucial role to play for a territorial cohesion objective and also for the economic dynamisation of many areas of our country. What is surprising about the CDS and PSD projects that are under discussion today? It is that they are completely contradictory, so let us say, with that which was the concrete policy of the PSD/CDS government. I would like to recall that only in 2012 the PSD/CDS government started — if I may say so — more than 600 km from our national rail network.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u100	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u101	What do I mean by this? I mean it's closed, it's closed concrete lines! [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] Yes, you are right! The previous PS governments had exactly the same logic. It's true! But because of this, you cannot relieve yourself of your responsibility. [[PSD protests.]] You have been kings in the closure of railway lines at national level and have therefore contributed to the lack of territorial cohesion. In fact — and this has already been said by other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, this sounds like a deep demagogy, because you are now putting on paper exactly the opposite of what they did when they were government, not only within the country but even in large metropolitan areas. The gentlemen did not move forward, seek to postpone, postpone, postpone, and therefore do not carry out, the absolutely necessary requalification of the Cascais Line.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u102	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputies, because it has already exceeded time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u103	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that this discussion does not seem serious to us, coming from these CDS and PSD projects, but the Greens take the matter of rail transport very seriously and without demagogy. That is why we must, in fact, clearly reverse the investment policy in rail transport. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u104	To conclude the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have raised and for the views you have shared here. Let me tell you that in the CDS we know very well what PETI was, what was consensualized and what money was left and which, of course, must be defended by the current government for the projects to be carried out. That is the responsibility of the current government and we have pointed out precisely what was consensualized, to remind the Government that there is a part that is to be done and that must be done. The modernisation of the Cascais Line has been mentioned here, but it is only one example of the many mentioned here. Those who, criticizing, said that the previous projects were very focused on goods and that it was necessary to look at the passengers, I mean that, precisely at a time when the country grows and that in the eyes of Mr. Prime Minister is very well, that is very pink, it is time to look at other projects that at that time they had no chance... [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u106	The honourable Member has reached the limit of the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u107	... to know feasibility but now have the possibility to be programmed, designed and executed in the medium and long term. I hope that all parliamentary groups will share this view and that they will enable this recommendation to the Government, particularly for the expansion, which is new, of the Port and Lisbon metro lines, which are fundamental to serving the populations of these Metropolitan Areas. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u108	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1047 and 1051 / XIII ( 2. a ), we will proceed to the discussion of the projects of lein.o 582/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish a maximum price system for bottle gas and channelled gas ( PCP ) and 604 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a maximum price system in the gas sector marketed in bottle or channelled, butane or propane ( PAN), generally together with draft resolutions 947 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the creation of a maximum price system for gas bottles ( BE) and 1048 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the control of the bottled gas market in order to reduce the difference between the reference price and the average selling price to the public ( CDS-PP ). To present the PCP bill, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law presented by the CFP to the Assembly of the Republic is a concrete response to the unacceptable situation that continues to happen with the prices of bottle gas and channelled gas. For many years, the CFP has been advocating proposals to lower the energy bill for populations and businesses, from the outset in relation to butane gas and propane gas, where the operating framework for consumers and micro and small entrepreneurs by three or four oil companies, which accumulate scandalous profit margins reaching 27 % of the selling price to the public, is particularly serious. What life is showing is that this situation, without a king or a rock, is the direct result of price liberalisation, which makes the issue of regulating and defining maximum prices to end this law of the jungle, this law of the strongest, which inferns millions of families in Portugal. Already in the State Budget for 2017, the CFP presented proposals in this direction and the rule that was approved already allowed to intervene on this issue. But there must be results and so far continues the same problem for families, for populations, for many micro and small entrepreneurs, for the restoration sector and for many sectors that depend on this supply of basic daily needs. No more studies and recommendations, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary to make decisions, move into practice and this is the meaning of our proposal: the definition and establishment of a maximum price system which refers to prices in the euro area as a whole, which goes through the presentation of the proposal technically based by the regulatory entity and finally by the approval and publication by the Government, with the appropriate update, taking into account the price framework in the supply of raw material. Of course, the issues relating to the supply of the population, particularly those in the interior regions, and to safeguarding the situation of retailers — particularly micro and small entrepreneurs, from those who take the gas shop to people's homes, because they are the least guilty of the real exploitation that is being felt by the populations — can and should be guarded in the framework of regulation. We are not inventing the powder, we are moving forward to concrete proposals in the light of what is already happening in Spain and what can happen in Portugal. What we want is that, once and for all, there is an answer to this problem, which continues to infernify the lives of millions of Portuguese people. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u110	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Energy represents a fixed cost that all Portuguese families have to bear. With regard to gas expenditure, the stock gas represents the fuel used in two out of three homes in our country, having the double price in the last 15 years and costing double the channeled gas — the average price of a gas store around €27, which is equivalent to a expenditure of €14 with natural gas. According to PODRATA 2016 data, Portugal presented the prices of natural gas for higher domestic users in Europe. in the study conducted by the Competition Authority, barriers were identified to the entry into the market of botija gas, which could reduce the competitive intensity in the market. Therefore, the gas supply industry in bottle is concentrated on a small number of operators with market share stability over time which is consistent with a lack of competitive dynamics. The liberalisation of the sector did not prevent this concentration, which led to an indiscriminate increase in prices, without consumers having an alternative but to resign from them. In this regard, the Competition Authority, bringing to the collation a comparison with the scenario in Spain, emphasized the sector's regulation as a much lower price enhancer than those practiced in our country. The lack of regulation in this matter generated another serious problem related to the enormous discrepancies between prices of gas tanks at the different geographic points, enhanced by the shortage of natural gas distribution in the more rural regions, which tend to be more economical difficulties, and this marked variation was discouraged in the face of a first-needed asset. Consequently, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that it is vital to reduce the energy bill of Portuguese families by regulating the gas sector, which will transport the establishment of fairer and more appropriate prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u112	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has the problem — and the Left Block has had a permanent concern in raising it in the Assembly of the Republic — of energy poverty and the weight of energy costs in the family economy, knowing that we are in a country where 70% of poor families are cold in winter. Now, there was an impressive evolution in the gas from the point of view of the weight of this energy source in this family economy. Today, the supply gas costs twice the channeled gas. And we have found that over the last 15 years, the price of this energy source has doubled on the Portuguese market. Therefore, its contribution to increasing the share of energy costs in the family budget is enormous and must be corrected. Initiatives have already been taken in the context of the last discussion of the State budget and measures have been adopted to ensure that, in particular in terms of regulation, the supply gas is transferred to the scope of the Energy Services Regulatory Authority. And this passage created an expectation, all the more so that, following this fact, the data of the Competition Authority and the recommendations it made in order to achieve better results in terms of the lower price of the stock gas. however, this reality is slow to come true. As Mr Bruno Dias said just now, studies and recommendations are going on but the results are not. Therefore, what is currently on the table as a proposal for the Left Block is that we not only seek to establish commercial values for the stock gas in Portugal that are in line with what is practised in Europe and with what is practised here in Spain, how we can also act, from an administrative point of view, from a regulatory point of view and from a political point of view, with the same criteria and with the same initiatives that have been taken here and here in Spain, in particular with the fixing of maximum prices for the marketing of the stock gas, of maximum prices along the chain, to ensure that intermediaries and small traders who have an important dependence on the marketing of the gas bottles can be protected from this effect and that these prices should not be concentrated in small traders who would be punished, but that it may be possible, throughout the trade chain, to ensure that the prices of the stock gas can be lowered over the year and each semester with the prices of this type of the product are revised. This is the proposal of the Left Block for political responsibility, the political commitment to achieve results, and not just intentions, effectively lowering the price of bottle gas today scandalously high in Portugal, where there is a lack of measures that are so common and so experienced in Spain and other European countries. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u114	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would say that there is a broad consensus or that there are many things in common with regard to the identification of the problem. In fact, the liquefied, butane and propane oil gas is today a product used in 70% of national consumption—we are talking about 2, 6 million housing—which is effectively important for both families and the economy, essentially in some parts of the country. Now, the solutions presented here are that they are neither concrete nor correct, from my point of view. And why do I say that? In fact, we have a problem, identified a long time ago, and we have worked on this problem. The legislative amendment that has been made, enabling consumers to exchange the shop in any marketer, regardless of the supplier, was a small step that made it possible to have more competition and more market openness. But, as has already been said, there are still issues to be resolved. Storage is a problem, and we can work on it. Taxes are another problem, and I cannot forget those parties that have increased the ISP and, with this, have increased, even on a very small margin, the price of the gas itself. VAT is another problem. It is strange that the left-wing banks that now support the government have nothing to say on this matter, whether or not they will reduce the VAT on the supply gas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u116	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u117	There are, therefore, subjects on which we can work. But there are other things. There are indeed barriers to entry into the stock gas market; there is indeed some concentration; and there is indeed some monopoly. And in these matters we should work with the regulator, perhaps looking carefully at price formation. Now, the solution that seems completely wrong to me, that has already been tested in the past and has not produced good results is price fixing. You say: "Let's do what has already been done next door in Spain." But do you know what happened in Spain? In Spain, there was a tariff deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u118	The regime is poorly applied!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u119	In Spain, the Government is compensating suppliers for losses. And what you are proposing to do is what has already happened to electricity: it results in a tariff deficit which then falls to the limit of consumers. So this is a wrong solution, it's a little thought-out solution and it's dangerous from the consumer's point of view. And it has one more exception: this is a type of product that is consumed more in winter, for heating, in depressed areas. However, price fixing would mean that certain areas in the country did not have the distribution of stock gas, without access to that product. Therefore, it is dually dangerous to be setting prices. Our solution is to find mechanisms that allow more competition, more players on the market. We propose that you look very well at what are distribution contracts and storage contracts and you find mechanisms to have a market with more competitors, with more players and, perhaps, with more capacity to access natural gas, which is another of the materials about which I have not heard nor the Left Block, nor the PCP and still lack to listen to the other benches. In fact, neither BE nor PCP have talked about the investment plan of the companies that are now distributing natural gas. This is an example of something that will have an effect on consumer turnover, but it is also something that has been discussed in this Parliament and which has been presented by companies, in particular in the northern part of the country. Therefore, I would like to know what the position of the honourable Members is. Members on this matter, whether or not we are going to allow these companies to make a stronger investment so that more families and businesses can have access to natural gas and, as a result, can lower the gas bill, perhaps also create conditions for prices to align with the market in stock gas. It is not a direct intervention in the economy that solves the problem. It always ends, invariably, by falling upon them: consumers and normally unprotected consumers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u120	Mr António Topa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects of lein.o 582 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), of the PCP, and 604 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) the NAP proposes that maximum prices be established for liquefied, propane and methane oil gas, marketed in bottle or channelled and that such prices generally refer to average prices in the euro area. Draft resolution No 947 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) BE, aligns by the same diapasion in a recommendation to the Government. Draft resolution No 1048 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) of the CDS-PP, essentially recommends that the Government be strengthened market surveillance so that the difference between reference prices and average sales prices to the public is reduced. in the European Union, the marketing of gas is free, unregulated, competitive, with the exception of Spain, where prices are regulated through the establishment of maximum prices. As an example, I would say that consumer prices are slightly higher in Portugal than in France and the price differential with Spain is high, and the price of the 13 kg gas bottle in Spain is about 14 € and in Portugal is around 23 €. The CFP, the NAP and BE essentially insist on this differential so that the market in Portugal is regulated administratively by the definition of a maximum ceiling of the consumer selling price. The reasons for the increasing price difference in recent years between import prices and sales prices to the public are: the concentration of marketing in few companies, which hold almost the whole market, and the lack of storage sites, largely used by those companies. To counter this situation, ERSE and the Government, through the Secretary of State for Energy, claim that the number of traders and storage sites should be extended in order to increase competition, allowing lower prices. DECO, ERSE and the National Fuel Market Entity report that prices in Portugal are high above fair market value. But they say and they don't. Should these entities not have already studied, analysed and data to indicate a value for consumer sales prices? The Secretary of State for Energy has pointed out, in some cases, that if prices do not fall, if prices for sale to the consumer, in particular the gas of supply, do not approach those practised in Spain, they may move forward to their administrative fixation. It is appropriate to say: « Force, Mr. Secretary of State! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But, as usual, he talks a lot for communication and then zero! We are in Parliament presenting and discussing projects when the Secretary of State for Energy has the solution by hand, easy, without fear of judicial proceedings. It is true that the prices for imports of gas have fallen and that the prices for sale to the consumer have not similarly accompanied that price drop. The market in Spain is regulated by setting the Government a maximum selling price to the consumer. It is only that the Spanish marketing companies have driven the Spanish State on the grounds that the prices fixed by the Government were below the cost prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u122	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u123	I'm done now, Mr. President. The Spanish State was ordered to pay EUR 170 million to companies. We do not want this to happen in Portugal. Therefore, we propose that the supervision and regulation by ERSE be increased and that the Government listen to the National Fuel Market Authority, Deco and ERSE on the values that they consider to be fair for sales prices to the public and the possibility of their regulation, without any problems of a judicial nature to the Portuguese State. We are ready and interested in discussing the matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u124	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing initiatives on the price of bottle gas, a topic that affects Portuguese families decisively, particularly the most vulnerable ones. This is an important debate. We therefore welcome all these initiatives, even because this has been a concern of the Socialist Party and the Government, that this market works more transparently and fairly. It's a problem you've had decades. No one in this room says otherwise. It was for this reason that the current Government requested the Competition Authority to study this market, which is essential for around 70% of the Portuguese population, and, following this study, it has already declared of public interest the storage facilities of the GPL of Sigás and Pergas, thus opening the door to more marketers. At the same time, and for the first time, the energy regulator will become responsible for the sector, adjusting this regulatory reinforcement with more supervision. These economies of scale can only benefit consumers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we welcome these initiatives on which we would like to develop with the other parties a broad and deep debate, within the parliamentary committee, from the outset on the possibility of also creating a social tariff on this sector, thus protecting the most disadvantaged consumers. We are available to work on proposals that force the sale, at all fuel stations, of LPG, as well as recently happened with low-cost fuel, with great benefits for consumers. Administratively fixing the price of bottle gas may be a solution, which we do not exclude, but which has risks of creating tariff deficits, which will then be paid with interest by consumers themselves, as well as closure of small businesses in the sector and also of which areas in the interior of the country have no access to this essential product. But we are available to discuss any solution. All Portuguese must have access to this essential asset at fair costs. We all know that there is a large geographical scope at price level and this situation is not acceptable. I am sure that no one will want to take the risk that in some parts of the country the supply gas will no longer be used for failure to return. However, we must also look for the most just and effective solutions there. In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS is available, interested and determined to work together, with everyone, to solve this problem, which has decades, and the difficulties of consumers. The most vulnerable consumers, which are 70% of the Portuguese population, must be defended and can count on the Socialist Party to find the best solutions and to be on the side of consumers of the stock gas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u126	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All numbers and all studies indicate two realities of which we cannot escape — Portuguese families are the ones that bear the biggest energy bill in Europe and, on the other hand, there are many families in our country that literally go cold during winter. One of the factors that weighs most in this injustice lies precisely in the heavy energy costs that families are forced to bear. Looking at a DECO study based on the reference value established by the National Fuel Market Entity, we easily conclude two important elements: on the one hand, that the gas in stock costs more than twice as much per kWh when compared to natural gas and, on the other hand, that the difference between the reference price and the sales price to the public increased exponentially. For this reason, the DECO suggested to the Regulatory Body of Energy Services that it should study the variables that weigh on price formation. But it is true that one of the causes contributing to this reality has to do with the large increase in the distribution margins, a situation which is not entirely different from the fact that the distribution of gas is concentrated on a small number of operators. For this reason, there is no flexibility in this essential good for people, which has caused excessive price increases, without leaving any alternative to families, who have to « eat and shut up ». Therefore, what has occurred in the gas sector should be worth our attention, not only because prices have experienced very high increases in the last 15 years, but also because market concentration favours these increases and removes any alternative to consumers. Furthermore, not only do prices show very different values between the various regions, but it is also known that price developments have nothing to do with the price of the raw material. According to the Competition Authority itself, the gross margins of traders have been increasing due to the low number of operators, which maintain stable market shares, and the absence of any flexibility in the search for gas leaves people completely tied. Now, since natural gas is an essential asset, it has to be seen this way, and since we are facing a situation where families have no defence instruments, because they need gas, they must not continue at the mercy of operators. That is why this House has to look for answers that put some morality in this sector. Moreover, all studies by the most diverse entities suggest the need to take legislative measures, not only to ensure the control of sales prices to the public but also to counter the trend of market concentration. The Greens therefore greet the authors of the proposals and follow the legislative initiatives under discussion, since, in different ways, they seek to address the problems of sense in the gas sector, they seek to protect consumers, they seek to protect families. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u128	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS, has the floor for further intervention on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u129	Mr President, I thought we were going to follow the closing order.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u130	That's what we're doing, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u131	in this case, it would be the time of the Portuguese Communist Party. But I can intervene now, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u132	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of the discussion that took place here, I would like to point out that there is a proposal, which has only been touched by the Socialist Party's bench, in order to consider the storage of Sigás and Pergás in public interest. I think we should work — and I would like to reiterate this idea — in mechanisms that are at our disposal, which do not affect the market, do not affect businesses, and thus ensure that all regions of the country, regardless of price, can have gas, acting, exactly, in price formation, in concentration and in more competition on the market. I also want to say that when they refer to Spain, it is good to say that the Portuguese market and the Spanish market have no comparison and therefore we cannot be copying models that are used in Spain. I also mean that in Spain this model is generating tariff deficit, it is generating State compensation to companies and we do not want this to happen in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u134	At the end of the debate the reverse order of presentation of diplomas has the floor Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let's go to the specific numbers. According to information from the Portuguese Petrol Enterprises Association itself, compared with the same period of 2016, over the last year, the rating of the butane gas decreased 0, 02 € / kg and the selling price to the public increased 0, 22 € / kg.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u136	Check it out! Get under control!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u137	This is an example of what is being the scandalous appropriation of profit margins by oil companies in marketing. This is the central problem, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not another. It is important to mention the particularly serious case of the so-called channelled propane LPG, the so-called city gas or channelled gas, which is more common in urban areas, where the monopoly dimension is aggravated by the impossibility that consumers have to change their supplier. Therefore, all measures that have been propagandized or pointed out are completely irrelevant to these thousands and thousands of families. People are being held hostage by monopoly groups and this cannot continue to happen. And there is nothing to be tax deficit for the approval of the CFP proposal, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. That's a mistification! The tariff deficit would only happen and only happen if and when the State dedicates the guaranteed profit margins to the oil and energy sector companies as untouchable. This is how the tariff deficit arises: guaranteed profits, margins consecrated as untouchable. It can't be, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! Why is it that the oil tankers must have 27 % margins at the price? Oh, my God! That's enough, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u138	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u139	There must be political will, political courage and rigour and technical competence to defend the interests of the people rather than subject the State, the law and the national economy to the power of monopolies. This PCP initiative has been worth it. I shall finish by saying that it is important to open up here for discussion on the subject, which must take place. We are, of course, available for work to find the best solution to finally respond to this problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u140	Mrs. Members, we thus conclude the general debate on the projects of lein.o 582 and 604 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), together with draft resolutions 947 and 1048 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). We move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in the drafts of lein. 536 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the obligation of information to the consumer in the bill of water on data relating to the quality of water for consumption and the referral of waste for management operations by amending Decree-Law No 114 / 2014 of 21 July ( The Greens) and 605 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — See Annex I to Decree-Law No 114 / 2014 of 21 July 2014 laying down the procedures necessary for the implementation of the detailed billing system provided for in Law No 12 / 2014 of 6 March 2014 which amended the second decree to Decree-Law No 194 / 2009 of 20 August in respect of public water supply, waste water sanitation and urban waste management ( PAN ), together with draft resolution No 1055 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an effective way of disseminating water quality data to consumers ( CDS-PP ). To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today propose to the Assembly of the Republic which creates a law in order to make it compulsory that in the bill of water they contain information to the consumer on the result of the control of the quality of water for human consumption and also on the destination given to solid urban waste in the respective system in which the consumer is integrated. To this end, we propose an amendment to Decree-Law No 114 / 2014, which is the Decree-Law which sets out the data that should appear in the bill of water. It is therefore a simple proposal which, at the same time, has a great value both in the information and clarification that must be provided to consumers, or as a form of awareness of the objectives of consumers themselves. I give an example with which I think that many of you and many of you. Members may already have faced themselves when they make direct contact with citizens, especially in the area of waste. Many citizens have often come to us and say: “We choose waste, but many within this system do not. I know there if I triage the waste, I'll deposit them separately and then that's all together again and everything goes to the same destination! Therefore, in this sense, I think it is due to a clear information and clarification to the consumer to encourage his effort in the separation of waste, in this particular case, but until he can also exercise his claim power with the competent authorities. However, two other parties also understood to present initiatives on this subject and I would like to comment on the other two projects that are under discussion here. Regarding the CDS project, The Greens do not have a great desire to make it possible, and I explain why. In view of the fact that the Greens are proposing that a law be made to make this information mandatory, what the CDS is doing is kicking this issue into the government and saying: the government that says there to ERSAR (Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services) that does anything about this matter. It does not seem to me that, having our own competence and own instruments to be able to create this obligation, we will untie ourselves from our responsibility and pass it on to the government. in this sense, it does not seem to us that the CDS project is a good contribution to this matter. On the NAP project, I have to say that it gives the idea that the NAP has grasped the idea of The Greens, in the Greens proposal, and made a copy almost integral of what is the Greens proposal. In view of the fact that the Greens are very convinced of their ideas, their proposals and the usefulness of their proposals, of course, that we shall also vote in favour of the whole copies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u142	To present the NAP project, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Congratulating The Greens on this schedule, we also discussed today a draft law of the NAP which aims to amend the Decree-Law establishing the procedures necessary for the implementation of the detailed billing system for public water supply, sanitation and urban waste management services. As an essential communication vehicle between the managing authority and the consumer, the bill of water must be easily understood, with simple and explicit language, and must contain all the essential elements relating to the provision of the service concerned. If its importance is evident in the provision of any kind of service, we believe that it is of particular importance when it comes to the provision of essential public services, for which the duty of detail assumes greater importance, as a result of the duty of transparency resulting from the provision of such services. As we consider that there is currently important information that is not being provided to consumers, we propose a legislative amendment in such a way that : in relation to the public water supply service, it is included in the simplified invoice information on the results of the last verification of the quality of water for human consumption, obtained from the implementation of the Water Quality Control Programme; the invoice also includes simplified information on the results obtained in waste water sanitation; and finally, in respect of urban waste management, the invoice includes simplified information on the distribution of such waste for the different management operations. With this project we aim to strengthen the transparency duty on public services, while, by allowing more accessibility to relevant information, we strengthen consumer rights, making them more clear and conscious.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u144	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS agrees and supports all mechanisms that can be created to bring greater data transparency, especially with regard to essential public services. In addition, we support all initiatives that promote greater consumer protection, particularly with regard to the information to be provided. With regard to this issue, the quality of water for human consumption in Portugal, there has been a very positive change in both the quality of distributed water and the performance of the number of mandatory analyses for its control, and the data of recent years leave no doubt about this subject, showing a clear improvement either in water quality control or in water quality in the last decade, currently reaching excellence values in Portugal, i.e. close to 99 % of safe water.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u147	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of water is definitely not a problem with which Portugal faces, and yet it is. We certainly have other problems with water for human consumption, but as regards its quality, there is no such problem. Yes, we have problems related to water losses, we have great problems with the high price of water for a part of the Portuguese population, but — I repeat because it is important to say so — with its quality, with the quality of water, we have no problem in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u148	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have mentioned in our initiative, and also in the Greens initiative, the legislation in force already imposes several rules on the verification of the quality of water intended for human consumption and its dissemination to consumers. Therefore, the current legislation provides that the management entities of the public water supply systems have a legal obligation to quarterly advertise water quality data by means of postings posted in their own places or by publication in the regional press. In addition, ERSAR prepares an annual technical report on the basis of data made available by management entities on the quality of water for consumption, which is available to the public on its website. however, despite all this information made available, we know that the same often does not reach all consumers. We therefore believe that such information can be further improved by ensuring that it reaches all consumers more easily, and therefore the government, in cooperation with ERSAR, must find the best way to do so, because we believe that the inclusion of more of this information in the monthly invoice can cause confusion on consumers and thus fail to meet its objective, because, as we all know — and that is the question, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia — the bill of water is already rather dense and difficult to interpret by consumers, and therefore to avoid further difficulties in this regard. That is why we present our project, which tries to avoid mixing a lot of information into a single document but contributes to increasing transparency in relation to the quality of the service provided to the citizen. In addition, it is necessary, if these initiatives are approved, the hearing of several entities on the subject, such as the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities or ERSAR, among others. In conclusion, and in conclusion, the CDS is available for, in the specialty, we will find the best way to reconcile the consumer's interest, either as regards the transparency of the data,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u150	... whether the accessibility of this knowledge is easy, and it does not seem to us that the inclusion of water quality in the monthly invoice is the best way to do so, although we agree with the principle presented here by The Greens, which is precisely our interest, to ensure that consumers can have more transparency in access to data. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u151	Mr Manuel Frexes, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the mandatory establishment of information to the consumer in the water bill on data relating to the quality of water for consumption and the referral of waste for management operations. I want to say from now on that we have nothing to oppose better clarification and better information from consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u153	Is that where you're from? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u154	however, the law, through Decree-Law No 306/2007, already regulates this matter in detail and with completeness, including the rules and manner of disclosure of water control for human consumption. Fortunately, water quality today is a secure and consolidated reality in Portugal. I give an example: companies in the Portuguese Waters Group, which are responsible for 80 % of the supply of water consumed by Portuguese companies, present water quality indicators of 99, 9 %. I repeat: for many years this excellent level of quality has been achieved — 99, 9 % of water quality — in a constant and systematic way. However, the bill of water, like any bill of public services, must contain the elements that can elucidate the consumer and not complicate its reading, should clarify and not confuse. We know that the main concern of the consumer in relation to his or her water bill and other invoices, particularly that of energy, sometimes, is the complexity and difficulty of reading the invoice itself, including the question of price and, above all, the complexity of tariffs. If, perhaps, we put in the bill of water what is published monthly and that there is already disclosure, the bill becomes more confusing and difficult to read. in this case, we are rendering a bad service to the consumer. Therefore, within the Commission, we will propose that a recommendation on the water bill should be made as follows: « Quality of water: if you wish to access the website, or the e-mail address, of the managing entity of this matter ». [[The Members of the Greens are laughing at Apollonia.]] I must add that this situation has the greatest reason for the issue of urban solid waste and waste water, even because the managing entity that issues the invoice is the entity that makes the management low and does not even have access to these data. Those who control these data are the managing entity up and, therefore, what makes all the sense is that in the invoice it is exactly the address, so consumers can access all the information, which is already available in our legal system. [[Protests by PCP MP Jorge Machado and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] In view of this, we will, indeed, be giving good service to the consumer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u155	Mrs Joana Lima of the PS now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No 536 / XIII ( 2. a ), the Greens Ecological Party initiative has good acceptance by the Socialist Party and we welcome the initiative of your parliamentary group. The purpose of this draft law is to establish the obligation of information to the consumer, in the bill of water, of data relating to the quality of water for consumption and also to forward waste to the management operation thereof. This bill also joined a NAP bill and a CDS-PP resolution project, which also deserves us a congratulations on its initiative. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, water is an essential good, indispensable to life, and it must deserve the greatest attention on our part and on the part of the Government. The Government Programme therefore elects, among other priorities, the following: ensuring access and quality of public services for water, sanitation and waste, and strengthening the rights of users and consumers of essential public services, such as water, waste treatment, electricity, gas, etc. in this sense, several measures have been taken together with the municipalities, to effectively ensure a better quality of service and water. Here we can recall the principle of non- privatization of water, approved in this House, with the favorable votes of the PS and of the whole left and with the votes against the right benches. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this draft law under consideration aims to inform consumers, Portuguese families, about the quality of water and the destination of solid waste. This information must be clear, transparent, accessible and, above all, must reach the consumer regularly so that it can be well informed. On the other hand, this measure may become a factor of awareness and motivation so that management, private and public entities, so that all, but all, comply with the legislation. As for the information in the invoice regarding waste, we also follow the Greens bill, until it seems to us that informing in the invoice where the waste is going can allow a great awareness of the separation of waste, for greater environmental awareness. For all this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, being this draft law in force, we understand that, firstly, the population will be better informed, more fulfilling and more aware of its role in protecting and preserving the environment. The Greens can count on the support and favourable vote of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u157	The following intervention is by Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by welcoming the Greens and the NAP banks for the presentation of their bills and also the CDS for the contribution they have made. I believe that the question we are discussing today is essentially simple: in Portugal we have better results than in the past in terms of both water quality and waste collection and recycling, and we want to value and promote this information to the public, to consumers and to the population in order, precisely, to enhance reliable use, safe use and committed use of these services, both in terms of water consumption and in terms of participation in the recycling process. The fact is that, both in the matter of water quality and in the matter of the destination of waste received by municipal waste collection systems, there are sometimes a lot of bad information to circulate, very loud, a lot of false information, which is discouraging and confusing, which impairs consumer confidence in both the quality of water and the safety of their consumption and in terms of the validity of their commitment to recycling policies. Therefore, having good information, accessible and not only available, which is understandable by the generality of people, is very important, even as an essential tool to promote policies for access to public water service, confidence in water service and participation in decentralized recycling practices. To generate this reliable information and simplify it is something that is here gathering a reasonable consensus and that is certainly the concern that the Greens and the NAP introduce into their projects, i.e. that this information is referred to in the invoices in a simpler way and that the regulatory entity itself can participate in this simplification, so that it is legible, so that it does not introduce any further confusion in the reading of the invoice. It is true what Mr Manuel Frexes said that invoices are already complicated enough, so we should think about it. It is that the information now introduced must be easy and legible, it is true, but the information that is already introduced, so difficult and complicated, also deserves to be simplified,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u159	We agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u160	... and I will be waiting for the PSD proposals on this matter, because understanding the additional costs, the over-costs, the costs of general economic interest and all the fees and fees that consumers have to pay in the bill of water or electricity bill would be very important and improving that understanding would certainly be very enlightening and politically relevant. In conclusion, I would say that we accompany the bills that are being presented and we believe that this work of definition in a simple and accessible way in the disclosure of this information should be done and Parliament can participate in it so that this measure can have a better effect. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u161	Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira from the PCP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by welcoming the Greens for the relevance of today's debate and which reflects an issue which we consider essential: the need for transparent, rigorous, comprehensible and simplified information to which all consumers have a right in terms of both the quality of the water we consume, or at the end of the waste we generate. As water is an essential asset to life and a fundamental right recognised by the General Assembly of the United Nations, we reaffirm the position of the CFP that its management, as well as that of sanitation and waste, must be in the public domain, because only the public service can effectively guarantee the accessibility, universality and quality of the goods and services provided. in this sense, we argue that the management of water, sanitation and waste is the responsibility of the municipalities and that the authorities enjoy full autonomy in their management, investing right-wing policies, which have advanced in the privatization of this good and these services. The CFP supports this project by The Greens, which requires transparency and simplicity in the information given to consumers, with regard to water quality and the destination to be given to waste. In fact, this measure carries various potentials: on the one hand, through the invoice, it facilitates the information to the municipalities about the characteristics and quality of the water they are consuming, thus ensuring the transparency and knowledge of the management option of each municipality. On the other hand, in the same invoice, citizens are aware of the fate of the urban waste they produce, knowing and accompanying their management, thus promoting the awareness of consumers regarding their collective responsibility and also enhancing the motivation for the separation of waste. If this information was already provided by various means and it is only proposed that it be present in the bill of water, the communication of the purpose of giving waste was not mandatory, which, in the view of the CFP, appreciates this proposal by the Greens Ecological Party, which also proposes that the data on waste management be subject to this disclosure. Finally, we also welcome the proposals for simplification and recognition of invoices by providing the possibility of reading to a wider number of citizens. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u163	in the remaining time, you have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I leave only a few very brief final notes. Some of the gentlemen. Members have come to say that there has been no record of any problems with the quality of water for human consumption. But the gentlemen. Members know that there are many consumers who do not trust this and therefore at home consume bottled water and not tap water. Now, here is an important issue for giving this information to consumers as well. It is true that this information is already given in accordance with Decree-Law No 306/2007, through editorials, of websites on the Internet, but also of other formats. Now, it is exactly another format we want to add: the bill of water. Mr President, this is going to make the bill of water a complication, which is already so dense. Look, Mr. Member, I also think the bill of water is very dense, but you know why? Because of the rates and taxis, which often lead to water consumption not more than 20 % or 30 % of what people pay. The rest is only fees for state authorities and fees. In fact, we could contribute to this density being reduced and eliminated, but it is not the fact that there is simplified information, i.e. the understanding of all consumers, which will make the bill of water complicated, as is evident. in this sense, we believe that it is a more-value that The Greens here come to propose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u165	Mrs. Members, we turn to item 5 of the agenda on petition No 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request the reclassification of vehicles on tolls ( Abel José Barroso Guerreiro and others). The Bureau is awaiting registrations. [[Pause.]] Mr. Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by drawing the attention of the Plenary to the relevance of the content of this petition and thanking and complimenting the petitioners for the initiative, although it does not seem to me that they are present, but, as it is recorded, it can be viewed by the interested parties. I was pleased to be the rapporteur of petition No 35 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), which entered the Assembly of the Republic on 8 January 2016. The Economic Commission, before having subsequently entered petition No 110 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) whose object was cross or partly common to that of petition No 35/ XIII, decided to add the reports of the two petitions and I had the opportunity to make the necessary inquiries not only to hear the subscribers of the two petitions but also the entities which, below, related to the content of these petitions. Application No 35 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) has a relatively wide object, with a view to altering all classes of tolls that are used on road roads. in the understanding of the petitioners, these classes of vehicles that are used to determine the price of tolls on motorways have a number of inconsistencies that are worth correcting, one of which is the common part with petition No 110/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — concerning the tolls of two-wheel motor vehicles. The value of the toll of these vehicles is absurdly equal to the value of the toll of a Class 1 car and the petitioners of one or another petition have in common the claim that this value should be reduced to 50 % of the value of Class 1 vehicles. They propose that a new class of vehicles should be formed — which would be Class 5 — whose value to be paid would largely be 50 % of the value of vehicles included in Class 1. A number of entities were heard, one of which was heard by the Institute for Mobility and Transport ( IMT ), and the responsible for this Institute informed that it had been set up a working group that would review these intentions and propose a report to the Assembly of the Republic, which should have been delivered in the first quarter of 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u167	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u168	I shall now conclude, Mr President. We are almost at the end of 2017 and the report has not been delivered. In any event, as all entities have been heard and, in general, all of them and also political parties have been in favour of creating a specific class of tollage for two-wheeled motor vehicles, we, the Left Block, will take the legislative initiative, in view of one of the claims of the petitioners, to propose that the Assembly of the Republic recommend to the Government the creation of a specific class of tollage for two-wheeled motor vehicles, with a rate of 50 % compared to that of Class 1 motor vehicles. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u169	Mr Fernando Jesus of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic today debates petition No 35 / XIII ( 1 ) a ), signed by Mr. Abel José Barroso Guerreiro and more 5983 citizens, who take advantage of to greet warmly. in its object, the petitioners request the reclassification of the vehicles as regards the tolls, in order to do so, to defend the repeal of the legislation in force on classes of vehicles carried and, also, that the new legislation is guided by a classification consistent with the types of driving licence. In addition, they also propose a new class of motorcycle vehicles with a payment of only 50 % of the value of Class 1. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in good time the 6000 petitioners submitted this petition, as the Government constituted a working group, involving elements of the Ministry of Planning and Infrastructure, the IMT, the Association of Trade in Automobiles of Portugal, the Metropolitan Authority of Transport and the dealers to work in the review of the legislation, which proves that it is attentive and interested in improving and improving the system of tolls. We also highlight the technical complexity of the toll charging system and the reclassification of vehicle classes, resulting from the application of criteria such as height, measured vertically from the first axis, as well as the axes of the vehicle itself. Since this petition has been sent to the Government at the time of its entry into this House and given its interest in improving the charging system on highways, we believe that the Government will not fail to consider all the proposals and contributions, including, of course, those of this petition. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be noted that, in August 2016, the Government has already promoted a process of reducing tolls by 530 km of motorways, respecting the commitments made and continuously relieving a very significant set of users. These are: A23 portages, Torres Novas-Guarda ; A22, from Lagos to Vila Real de Santo António ; A25, between Albertaria-a-Velha and Vilar Formoso, excluding the initial section between Aveiro and Albertaria-a-Velha ; A24, between Viseu and the border of Vila Verde de Raia, in the municipality of Chaves ; A4, called Transmontana, between Amarante and Quintanilla, Bragança, which leaves out the section of the road between Matosinhos and Amarante. Even in the A4, in the Marão Tunnel, the price already applied covers 15 % discount. It was approved to extend the timetables and special discounts to heavy goods vehicles on these motorways. The additional discount scheme in force since 2012 of 10 % in the day-to-day period and 25 % in the night-to-day and weekend period for heavy goods increased to 15 % and 30 % respectively and was extended to A4 and Maron Tunnel. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end by reiterateing the opportunity to present this petition, for the positive contributions it has brought to the reflection of the working group, and the PS therefore thanks and congratulates the petitioners for their presentation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u171	Mr. Paulo Rios, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition reaches us with a significant number of citizens, which, as a rule and politically, must deserve our reflection and appreciation. In summary, the classification or reclassification of vehicles or classes of vehicles on the road is concerned. But even in the words of the petitioners, the matter assumes some complexity, because they claim that the costs of motorways and ex-SCUT should be reflected in their users but in a form, and I quote, ‘selective and coherent’, invoking that the value to be collected should include the conjugation of the reclassification of all classes of vehicles currently in force, using the criterion used in the allocation of driving licences. They also defend that the basic criterion of calculation is the binomy weight/volume and that the number of monthly passages of the same vehicle has a decreasing cost per passage. As the petitioners themselves also confess, they ignore the statistical and financial impact of the proposal by estimating and quoting « that these amendments may not generate less revenue ». Interestingly or regrettably, the consulted entities, who were expected to comment more fully on the technical and financial impact of these proposals, i.e. the Ministries of Economics and Planning, left the Committee on Economics and Members with no response. In addition to this indifferent silence of the other entities involved, we have received clarifications and warnings that essentially deal with the following questions: with the legal change in the classification of vehicles, which raises issues of a technical nature not considered on this date and not evaluated as regards their financial impact, either on equipment, or on the means used, or on potential traffic; and with the forecast of revenues and costs, as well as with the financial balance of each concession project, which constitutes an essential element of the contract, the amendment of which should be preceded by further negotiation or revision. In addition to this reflection, the Institute of Mobility and Transport (IMT) invokes that the directives transposed in 2014 to Decree-Law No 147 / 2014 have their application suspended for analysis and study of benchmarking or good practices, which continues to take place. On the other hand, the Institute for Mobility and Transport itself was pressing at that time, and only at that time, to form a working group. In short, on the basis of the available elements, we must conclude that the claim contained in this petition appears to have measures or amendments that reflect more justice or consistency in relation to the collection of roads and that the Assembly of the Republic — in this case, the Economic Commission and, in particular, Mr Heitor Sousa, who has complied with the rigorous work he has done as rapporteur of this petition — has sought, with the guardian bodies on the subject, more information or clarification, which has proved impossible in the case of the Government and insufficient with the other entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u173	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u174	I will finish, Mr. President. We understand that this issue should be framed in the reflection and application of the European directives that were transposed in 2014 and that they themselves admit the modulation of the toll rate for environmental reasons or other factors. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u175	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, let us welcome the nearly 6000 people who, with this petition, have turned to the Assembly of the Republic calling attention to a concrete problem which is penalizing, more seriously, a vast number of citizens and businesses, which is the inadequate system of prices and car classes in its already unjust national road network toll policy. The concrete situations mentioned in this petition are, in itself, quite explicit and demonstrative of the picture in which the country is placed. There are users of the former SCUT and motorways who perform their professional activity in different and distant places of their residence and who are pushed into port roads, as mentioned in the petition. in the petition are also referred to other cases, such as that of motorcycles have a reduction in the toll value of only 30 % and only if the Via Verde is used, that of buses with about 70 seats pay exactly the same as a light vehicle having a height of more than 1, 10 m vertically from the front axis and that of vehicles of the same brand and model are classified in Class 1 or Class 2 according to the size of the air filter for the engine. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these situations, of course, require a technical approach that responds to the evolution that the car sector and the car park have registered in recent years in the face of a system of classes and prices that is not correctly defined for the present. We note that the IMT did not question, in response to the Assembly of the Republic, the factuality of these situations, but, so far, we are waiting for such a study that the IMT announced and that it says it is in progress. It has also been mentioned here that the Government itself has not responded to the Assembly of the Republic, and this cannot fail to be pointed out as a negative fact. from the PCP side, we are fully available for discussion and to work in order to respond concretely to the situations that have been pointed out and to the injustices of further worsening in relation to the penalization that these users of the road network feel on their daily basis, which were presented to the Assembly of the Republic. But let us not fail to stress the profound injustice of the fundamental political issue underlying this debate, which is the toll policy, the imposition of tolls in the former SCUTs, the entire policy of financing the road network and the millionaire benefit that is being attributed, through the invoice paid by the users of the motorways, to the economic groups that have taken account of and which have appropriated this strategic network for the functioning of our economy. The granted motorways paid Brisa profits of almost EUR 50 million only between January and July of this year. Almost doubled profits and revenues with tolls in 11 motorways made more than 250 million euros in just half a year. Well, this happened at a time when there was no construction of any new launchers. We are discussing cents in relation to the tolls for Class 1 or Class 2 and the concrete problems people are experiencing and, meanwhile, there are those who are threatening tens and tens of millions of euros in a few months. This can't go on, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u177	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating about 6000 petitioners who have brought a specific problem to the House that must be of our attention. It is a fact that we are in favour of the principles of the user-payer and the polluter-payer, but that does not mean that we have an unfair, complex and very insensitive system. In other words, it is reasonable that you can contribute to the maintenance, safety and fluidity and even to the construction of our motorways, it is reasonable that you can reward those who pollute less, but the current system cannot be so complex as to require any vehicle that, by its volume, not by its weight, pays as much as a bus, as has been said, with 17 places or that motorcycles, which actually have a reduced impact on the road, pay almost as much as the cars that have a greater impact in terms of emissions and on the road. This system is not even a friend of captivating more users. If it was simpler and if it was awarded who would use it most, we would probably have more users and, with that, more sustainability and more contributions to our road system. I think the petitioners' claim is quite reasonable not only to find a way to put motorcycles, at least to use the highways, thus gaining fluidity and security, but also to find a fair payment. We therefore regret — and we congratulate Mr Heitor Sousa, who made an effort to obtain a response from the Institute for Mobility and Transport, which in this case seemed more like the institute of immobility, for not responding, not acting and not knowing what to do — that, in a socialist way, in the face of an easy solution problem, the non-payment of tolls in campaign time and in government time is only reduced. In addition, they created a working group, which, as always in socialist action, takes time to have conclusions. Therefore, we are waiting, because it is a technical and complex issue, that this working group, once and for all, brings to the House solutions, decisions, without questioning the sustainability of the system, but at the same time responding to the petitioners' claim. If this is not the case, the House obviously has a white paper for, at least in relation to motorcycles, to make a decision, thus correcting an unfair situation and reinforcing what I have said, i.e. that the sustainability of the system should be maintained, to continue with the principles of the user-payer and the polluter-payer, but in a simple, effective and fair manner. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u179	Mrs. Members, from the next item on our agenda is the Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2016, for which no time is allocated for debate. They also include our agenda, also without time allocated for debate, the motions for resolutions Nos 50/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 and 52 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Terrorism, open for signature in Riga, on 22 October 2015. Before we enter the voting period, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report on the entry into the Bureau of a diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u180	Mr. President and Mr. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 612 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the Union of Frequencies of Poceirão and Marateca and the parish of Palmela of Palmela ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so, should notify the Bureau of their presence and then make the presence. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 199 presences, to which are added 3 — those of the Members. Mr Carlos Matias, from BE, Álvaro Castello-Branco, from CDS-PP, and Francisca Parreira, from PS,, performing 202 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting No 387/ XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Despite the death of the Bishop of Porto, D. António Francisco dos Santos ( President of RA, PS and PSD ), who will before be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with great dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge of the death of the Bishop of Porto, D. António Francisco dos Santos. D. António leaves the diocese of Porto suddenly and early, at a time when he devoted all his intelligence, wisdom and generosity to him. Born in Tentais, parish of Cinfanes, Antonio Francisco dos Santos was ordained a priest in 1972. He graduated in philosophy five years later, having continued his higher studies in Paris, in the area of the sociology of religions. He was professor of the Lamego Seminary, editor of the newspaper Voz de Lamego, Auxiliary Bishop of Braga during the pontificate of John Paul II, Bishop of Aveiro, appointed by Benedict XVI, and Bishop of Porto, where he replaced D. António Clemente, already by appointment of Pope Francis. Always close to the communities he served, with a joy excited by his faith and humanism, all recognize him the sense of solidarity and the ability to make himself heard among the younger and the more disadvantaged social sectors. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the disappearance of D. António Francisco dos Santos, transmitting to his family and to his diocese the deepest regret. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u183	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 388/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Fernanda Borsatti ( President of RA, PS and PSD ), who will be read by Secretary Diogo León.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u184	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great sadness that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of actress Fernanda Borsatti, who was the joy in person. As director Luís Galvão Teles said these days, who worked with her in Life is Bela, ‘ Fernanda Borsatti was life, brought her life into the image. ’ Born in Évora on September 1, 1931, she was an actress of great versatility. This versatility is clear when we think about the companies through which it passed, such as the Teatro Maria Vitória, the Laura Alves Company and the Teatro Maria Matos and, between 1978 and 2001, it belonged to the list of the National Theatre D. Maria II, or when we realized that besides the theatre, it also did cinema and television. The success of its passage through the great screen, in numerous series and telenovelas, added to its artistic recognition a remarkable popularity. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its sorrow for the success and transmits its most heartfelt grief to Fernanda Borsatti's family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u185	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It will now be read by Secretary Idália Serra, vote No 389 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Armando Trigo de Abreu ( RA President, PS and PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great sadness that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of Armando Wheat of Abreu. Born in Mirandela, in 1940, he graduated at the age of 25 in Agronomic Engineering, at the Higher Institute of Agronomy, in Lisbon. He was a man of science and science all his life. He developed scientific research and teaching functions in Gulbenkian, in the current ISEG and ISCTE, where he directed the African Studies Centre. Africa was, in fact, another passion of her life. In 1987, alongside Mariano Gago, chaired the National Days of Science and Technology, which represented a turning point in science policy in Portugal. Between 1989 and 2002, he served as head of the National Environment Institute, the Praxis XXI Programme and the Institute for International Scientific and Technological Cooperation. More recently, during the XVII Constitutional Government, he was the head of the Cabinet of the Minister of Science and Technology, Mariano Gago. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret for the success and transmits its greatest grief to the family and friends of Armando Wheat of Abreu. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u187	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, they are in the family galleries of Armando Trigo de Abreu, to whom the Bureau expresses sincere condolences. It will now be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco, the vote No 394 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the earthquake victims in Mexico ( RA President, PSD, PS and CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u188	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great dismay that the Assembly of the Republic marks the terrible effects of the large earthquake that hit Mexico. Civil protection data already point to 216 fatal victims, including 26 children. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its total solidarity to the Mexican authorities and conveys its deepest sympathy to the families and friends of the victims. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 390 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the second place reached by the Portuguese Rugby Selection at the World Rugby U20 Trophy in Uruguay ( PSD, CDS-PP and PS ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u190	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The second place reached by the Portuguese selection of Rugby Sub20 in the World Rugby U20 Trophy, disputed in Uruguay, is a fact that prides Portugal. The character demonstrations of our young athletes and technical team throughout the tournament exalted the most noble values transmitted by this modality: comradeship, spirit of sacrifice, altruism. in the end, against Japan, finished before the regulatory time, young wolves never gave up their dream. They never lowered their arms, always beating equally and demonstrating to the country their quality, in particular that of national sports in general, so often undervalued. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its joy and welcomes this sport success achieved, thus associating itself with the feeling of national recognition for this benefit, greeting the National Selection of Sub20 by Rugby present in this world championship, trainers and technical team for the excellent demonstration of its sporting value and the way they dignified Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u191	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members are present in the galleries several elements of the Portuguese Selection of Rugby, to whom the Bureau presents the congratulations. [[General applause.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1059 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Angola ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The overall vote on motion for a resolution No 49 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mrs. Members, I inform you that you are present in the gallery of the diplomatic corps Mr. Ambassador of Canada. We will now vote, despite being damaged, draft resolution No 930 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by rejection of CETA — Global Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PS MP Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will now vote together on draft resolutions Nos 1050 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rejects approval for ratification of the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) between the European Union and Canada ( CFP ), 1052 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Economic and Commercial Agreement — CETA ( European Union-Canada ) ( BE ) and 1053 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Agreement on Economic and Trade between the European Union and Canada ( CETA) ( PAN). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PS MP Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on a number of requests: one, submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without a vote, for a period of 90 days of the proposed law No 94 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of fire safety in buildings; another, submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, for a period of 90 days of the proposed law No 75 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and the right to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person; ( a ) — Recognizes the right to gender self-determination ( BE) ; and, finally, a request submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting, for a period of 90 days, of Bill No 317 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( NAP) — Ensures the right to gender self-determination ( NAP). [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall now proceed to the general vote on draft law No 593 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the functional segregation of the resolution authority within the Banco de Portugal ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, with votes against the PSD and with abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall now proceed to the general vote on draft law No 594 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 228/2000 of 23 September establishing the National Council of Financial Supervisors ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, with votes against the PSD and with abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall now proceed to the general vote on draft law No 595 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the transparency and incompatibilities and impediments of Banco de Portugal ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS, BE and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, this diploma is down to 5. the Commission. We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 596 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August approving the framework law of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, BE and CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u192	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u193	An interlocution in the midst of the votes is not possible, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u194	Mr President, it is about the fall of diplomas to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u195	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u196	Mr President, the opinion which was drawn up by me and which was approved in the COFMA ( Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation) on these two draft laws that we have just voted on warned the Bureau that there is an eventual Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Civil Service Exercise and that, eventually, the Bureau should consider the fall of these bills to that Commission, where these same matters are being discussed. So it doesn't make much sense — that is the content of the opinion — that in the legislative process they are running side by side...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u197	Sir, you got it. Thank you very much. Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u198	Mr President, I just wanted to say that, on our part, there is no inconvenience in following Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira's suggestion, until the left parties have refused the central diplomas on supervision and, in practice, this is a matter on...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u199	Mr President, there is no need to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u200	You have nothing political, Mr. President. Let me finish. As I was saying, the part which is truly the heart of supervision does not follow and therefore, above all, the part on transparency and incompatibility remains and this may make sense to follow up on the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u201	It is not usual to follow up any committees which may vote in the specialty. That is the rule of law. But, if there is consensus, the diplomas can be dropped to the two committees... or, better, they can only go down to one committee, so it follows for the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, because there is consensus in this regard, but we are running away from the rule of not going down to any committees. Mrs. Members, we will now vote, in general, Bill No. 597 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Done at 44. the amendment to Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December establishing the general arrangements for credit institutions and financial corporations ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1035 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the financial supervisory mechanisms of the European Union and the completion of the Banking Union ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u202	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will present a personal statement of vote on the matter which has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u203	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 525 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defines the actions of veterinary physicians ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 602 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Define which acts are the own acts of veterinary physicians ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 587 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the transmission of an undertaking or establishment ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. Mr Rui Silva, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u204	Mr President, given the speed with which the vote took place, I had no time to declare any conflict of interest, so I asked for it to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u205	Mr. Deputy, it is then recorded in the Minutes. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 600 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Clarify and strengthen the rights of workers in the event of a transfer of business or establishment ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 603 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by modifying the legal regime applicable to the transmission of business or establishment ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We will now vote in general on Bill No. 606 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the transmission of business or establishment ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1047 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote investment in rail and road infrastructure with a view to improving the mobility of citizens, territorial cohesion, competitiveness of enterprises and environmental sustainability ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1051 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommendation to the Government on the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan [ PETI 3 + ] ( PSD ) for which we were asked to vote separately on the various points. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2a. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, having been the same way of voting in relation to the previous vote, I do not understand very well why we vote separately. It does not make sense that we will be voting in favour of the parliamentary groups to vote in exactly the same way. Let us vote on point 2 - b. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are simply wasting time with this unfoldment. We could have voted all the points together. We shall proceed to the vote on point 2 - c. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we start doing these developments, we need to talk about it at the Leaders Conference. It is that unfoldings for demonstrative effects are something that does not exist, only serve to delay work. We shall vote on point 3. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] All points had the same fate. It was therefore a very interesting exercise of decoupling with equal results in all votes. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 582/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a maximum price system for bottle gas and channelled gas ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PS and PS.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 604 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a maximum price system in the gas sector marketed in bottle or channelled, butane or propane(NAP). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PS and PS.]] The diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 947 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the creation of a maximum price system for gas bottles ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1048 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the control of the bottled gas market in order to reduce the difference between the reference price and the average selling price to the public ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mr Bruno Dias, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u206	Mr President, it is to announce that, in relation to the last two draft resolutions, the CFP will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u207	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall generally vote for Bill No 536 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the requirement for information to the consumer in the bill of water on data relating to the quality of water for consumption and the referral of waste for management operations by amending Decree-Law No 114 / 2014 of 21 July ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 605 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — See Annex I to Decree-Law No 114 / 2014 of 21 July 2014 laying down the procedures necessary for the implementation of the detailed billing system provided for in Law No 12 / 2014 of 6 March 2014 which amended the second Decree-Law No 194 / 2009 of 20 August in respect of public water supply, sewage sanitation and urban waste management services ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1055 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an effective way of disseminating water quality data to consumers ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2016. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 50 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 52 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Terrorism, open for signature in Riga, on 22 October 2015. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 948 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to support the fisheries and sustainable management of national maritime resources ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 977 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update the list of agricultural and forestry equipment that can be used by colourful and marked gas oil ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, against the CFP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 990 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen market shares ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the NAP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1007 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a psychological intervention team to respond to the fires of Pedrógão Grande, Castanheira de Pera and Figueiró dos Vinhos ( PAN ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u208	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u209	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u210	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u211	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 264 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the full re-qualification of the West Railway Line and its inclusion in the railway investment plan 2016 - 2020 ( BE). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 267 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In defence of the requalification of rail transport in the West Line as a regional development factor ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 329 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the rehabilitation of the West Line ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 878 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently initiate the invitation to tender for works in the West Line and, in the meantime, replaces the circulating material currently in circulation ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u212	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u213	Please, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u214	Mr President, with regard to the vote on this set of resolutions on the West Line, the CFP will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u215	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u216	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u217	Mr President, in the same way with regard to the vote on these draft resolutions, the Left Block will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u218	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 626 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government requalify and modernize the Vouga Line by connecting it to the North Line ( in Espinho ) and including it in the 2016 - 2020 Railway Investment Plan ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u219	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u220	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u221	Mr President, it is only to inform us that, with regard to the previous vote, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u222	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote jointly on draft resolutions Nos 634 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the re-qualification and modernisation of the Vouga Line, which goes through the electrification and expansion of the existing bottle, interconnecting it with the North Line, in the 2016 - 2020 Railway Investment Plan ( PSD ), 776 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Plan of Requalification and Modernization of the Vouga Valley Line ( PCP ) and 786 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by requalifying the Vouga Line and its inclusion in the national plan of investments in rail ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u223	Mrs. Carla Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u224	Mr President, in the same way, with regard to this vote as well, I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u225	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u226	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this set of resolutions on the Vouga Line.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u227	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u228	Mr President, the Left Block will also present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u229	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the joint vote on draft resolutions Nos 1021 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by preserving and musealizing the collection of Santa Maria Madalena or « Converted » ( PCP ) and 1054 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that, in conjunction with and with the involvement of the city of Braga, ensure the preservation, requalification and recovery of the collection of Santa Maria Madalena or the converted, in Braga ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u230	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u231	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u232	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the CFP Parliamentary Group on the vote on draft resolution No 1054 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) shall submit a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u233	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1020 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure compliance with welfare rules in the transport of live animals ( PAN ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and CFP, with votes against the NAP and with abstentions from BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u234	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u235	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u236	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-20.u237	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members are also in approval of paragraphs 105 to 110 of the Journal for plenary meetings of 5, 6, 7, 12 and 19 July 2017 and for the meeting of the Standing Commission of 7 September 2017. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held on 3 October, Tuesday, at 3 p.m. , being the first item on the agenda for political declarations. Next, we will examine petition No 172 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — They request an amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January ( access and exercise regime for various trade, services and restoration activities and establish the respective counter-ordering regime ), in order to allow for the entry of animals into commercial establishments ( André Silva et al.), together with the general assessment of draft law No 172 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Possibility of permit of animals in commercial establishments ( amends Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January 2015 ) ( PAN ). Third and last, we will jointly appreciate petitions Nos 190 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recognition of the police profession as « rapid wear occupation » and amendment of the Statute of the PSP ( Autonomous Union of Police — ASAPOL ) and 235 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the inclusion in the Professional Statute of the Public Safety Police of the status of a rapid wear professional ( Trade Union Association of Police Professionals — ASPP / PSP ). As you know, our work will now be interrupted due to the electoral campaign for the elections, which will be held on 1 October, so I wish all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, good participation and the best possible results. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 57 minutes.]]
