ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we move on to the agenda, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report on the file with the usual teacher.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the proposals of lein. 77 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Change the Elections Act of the Assembly of the Republic and the Elections Act of the President of the Republic, 78 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of the electoral census, 79 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the special arrangements for access to basic data and electronic communications traffic data by SIRP, 80 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Single Circulation Tax Code and the Municipal Property Tax Code and extend the validity of the tax benefits relating to the scientific mecenate, which falls to 5. the Commission, and 81 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2017 - 2019, which goes down to 1. the Commission and resolution No 51 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves Convention No 187 on the Promotional Framework for Safety and Health at Work adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation at its 95th meeting. the Session, held in Geneva, on 15 June 2006, which falls to 2. the Commission. They also entered the table, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 518 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — establishes the specific conditions for the provision of work, social protection and professional conversion of the dancer of the National Dance Company ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 519 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the scheme for the repair of damage caused by occupational dancers'accidents ( The Greens ), which fall to 10. the Commission. Resolutions 857 / XIII ( 2 ) were also introduced. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Saint Petersburg ( President of the HR ), 858 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Mexico ( President of the HR ), 859 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates on 8 July as the National Day of Mutualism ( PS ), 860 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to prevent and combat cyberbullying and cybercrime ( CDS-PP ) which falls to 1. the Commission, 861 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary actions to ensure that the Monte Real Air Base is adapted to the civil flight airport ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 862 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Review of the career of social security inspector ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 863 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Assessment of the milk of small ruminants ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 864 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures that value the milk of small ruminants and promote the improvement of the income of milk and cheese producers ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 865 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends an amendment to the legal regime of the public business sector which respects the right to collective bargaining and a new orientation for the management of the public business sector ( BE ), 866 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the safeguarding of the inhabitants of the Azores within the framework of the use of the Lajes Base by the United States of America ( BE ), 867 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to ensure the availability of generic medicinal products in pharmacy to ensure that pensioners and future pensioners in the dairy industry do not have to bear any costs in their purchase ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 868 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — On the future of the Lajes Base ( PS ), 869 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures extending tourist demand throughout the national territory ( PS ), 870 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repositioning in the career of teachers who entered the frameworks — regulation of the status of teaching career ( BE), 871 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures promoting scientific tourism ( PS ) and 873/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to enhance teachers and educators and improve their working conditions ( CFP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Members, let us then enter the first item on the agenda, which is part of the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 589 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Base of the Lajes ( PSD ), 866 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the safeguarding of the inhabitants of the Azores within the framework of the use of the Lajes Base by the United States of America ( BE ) and 868 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On the future of the Lajes Base ( PS ). To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u4	H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members: We propose that the Government report regularly to this House on the use of the Lajes Base as regards negotiations with the United States of America and/or other countries. This communication is becoming increasingly necessary, given the growing mistrust we have of the action of the government in this dossier. And the recent facts justify this mistrust: it is noticed that the government failed at the last bilateral meeting of the Lajes Base because it did not willingly do its homework, especially with regard to the decontamination of the soils and aquifers of the Third Island. Irresponsibility and cynicism are of such a nature that, after the so-called 'bilateral disillusionment', the PS presents a resolution for the government to give priority to the topic of decontamination at bilateral meetings. What, then, was the reason why the government did not give priority to this issue at this bilateral meeting? Where were the deputies? The resolution is, above all, critical of the government's performance at this bilateral meeting. [[PSD applause.]] The PS acknowledges that the government has underestimated the issue, perhaps even exchanged it for other interests, and has tried to pass a sponge on the past and say: "Now it will be! » The PS is as responsible as the government, because it was complicit for silence and inactivity. But what is the surprise of this posture? None! The PS and the government have not given and, until they prove otherwise, they do not want to give priority to decontamination. There were, of course, three ministers who showed that they did not know this subject: the first was the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said that the amounts to be demanded by the US Government for decontamination were zero; the second was the Minister for Defence, who did not know about the analyses that took place on the Third Island ; and the third was the Minister for the Environment himself, who threw the responsibilities for the Azores. These statements are regrettable and deserve the protest of this House. It is appropriate to say that with these ministers we do not need a government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u6	This frightening ignorance and this alarming indifference by the Ministers is called political neglect, which can be considered a human and environmental crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u8	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, everything indicates that there is a people dying because of the contamination of soils and aquifers with hydrocarbons and heavy metals. That's why it's enough inertia! It is time to act and PSD is, as it has always been, available to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u10	However, the Government must assume with responsibility and firmness this problem of decontamination, i.e. that it assumes that this is a priority issue for the State. And today it is essential for the government to say whether or not it will pay for decontamination and study. This question has to have a clear and objective answer from the Government here and now, and we do not accept provisional answers. The Lajes Base agreement establishes an institutional relationship between two sovereign states, which does not allow the Executive of Portugal to ignore this commitment and everything it involves. It should also be noted that the Government is misleading the Portuguese on the Lajes Base and on future solutions, since it publicly says something but negotiates its opposite. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u11	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented by the Left Block on the Lajes is very clear as to the defense of the Azores and its population.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u14	The PSD project, although Mr. António Ventura has spoken about decontamination, ignores the real problems affecting the Azorians,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u15	The PS and the government don't...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u16	... in particular the population of the Third Island, the result of the American presence at the Lajes Base. Not a single word has been said about the pollution of soils and aquifers caused by American troops and the decontamination that needs to be undertaken. What you did was a pirouette. The main objective is the attack on the Left Block and other left-wing parliamentary forces for being against NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). What the PSD is trying to do is create friction, discomfort, a rupture within the majority that supports the current government because it knows that NATO does not deserve consensus within the majority. But this failure does not exist, because NATO is not part of the agreement that defeats — and well! — the former Government, PSD / CDS, which brought only poverty, unemployment and precariousness to the country. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] from here I reaffirm, loud and sound, that the Left Block, in NATO matters, remains faithful to its political and ideological matrix: it was in the past, it is in the present and will continue to be in the future against NATO.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u18	NATO is a conservative weapon of war at the service of the American empire, it is an instrument of war against the peoples and it causes destruction and death, not only on the European continent, as around the world—to be told by the peoples of ancient Yugoslavia, Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. We have memory and we don't forget! As for the PS project, we welcome its concerns, although it should be clearer and more demanding about the responsibilities of the Government of the Republic towards the inhabitants of the Third. For the PSD and the CDS — and now for the Government — what matters is not to confuse the diplomatic relationship with the United States. To this end, it is not appropriate to confront the Americans with the environmental footprint resulting from their use of the Lajes Base. in practice, those who intransigently defend an immaculate relationship with the Trump government have already taken a political option: subservience to the detriment of the public health of third parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u19	Talk to the gentlemen. PS board Members!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u20	It is for this particular point that the PSD project points out a greater commitment to the relationship with the United States and NATO than to the public health of the populations of the Third World. The Left Block clearly opts for the defense of the public health of third parties. Our draft resolution frontally rejects Trump's and his representatives' demands. The subservience of successive governments to NATO and the powers that integrate it has only led to the de-investment in public services and the loss of social and labour rights of citizens and citizens of the country. The implementation of the Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan, which was created to complete the reduction of the American military presence in the base, has not yet come to light and should be completed by the end of the year. Trump's election reveals a great instability for the Azores. We know of its strategic and geographical importance, as well as the importance of its natural richness. Several hypotheses have been advanced for the dynamization of the local economy of the Third, including the civil use of the Lajes and the creation of a research centre, but nothing will advance in the Azores if the Government of the Republic, the PSD and the CDS continue to be hostage to the US strategy. Our draft resolution is very clear: it recommends that the Government safeguard the interests of third-country inhabitants in the face of American taxes; urges the Government to make every effort to ensure the depollution of soils and aquifers, whose contamination is the responsibility of the US Government; recommends that the Government undertake monitoring and monitoring of decontamination work through the National Civil Engineering Laboratory ( LNEC ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u21	But the honourable Member is in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u22	... in accordance with the resolution adopted in the Legislative Assembly of the Azores ; and finally recommends to the Government that the United States Administration require the speedy repair of the environmental liability arising from its use of the Lajes Base. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u23	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The environmental decontamination of the Third Island is, at the moment of negotiations, the priority of priorities. About a week ago the last meeting of the bilateral committee ended, a meeting still marked by the indefinition of certain positions of the new American Administration and reflected in the commitments reached. Already this Monday, the U.S. Department of State has stated that they will continue to work on the important task of taking care of the environment, which remains a priority for the United States of America. Well, let's hope so! however, there is something that is crucial to clarify: the decontamination of the third island has effectively to mean that this is done in all areas where environmental damage is derived from the presence of the US, whether inside or outside the perimeter of the Lajes Base. Because this clarification is fundamental to us and this commitment we have presented another initiative to recommend to the Government of the Republic three points which we consider essential in this process. First, the Government's commitment to the implementation of the measures provided for in the joint declaration signed with the Regional Azores Government. Second, the guarantee, during the bilateral negotiations with the United States, of the priority of total environmental decontamination on the Third Island and of the future re-use of the surplus infrastructures of the Lajes. Thirdly and last, the development of all efforts to seek the best solutions for the economic growth of the Third Island, ensuring that there are no areas reserved for foreign investment in the country or areas excluded from foreign investors. These are the decisive points for the third island. [[P.S.'s applause.]] during this debate, some issues have already been raised that deserve some consideration: firstly, decontamination is not a new issue. Those who listen to the speeches of the PSD Members feel that this is a new issue, but it is not. Unfortunately, nothing has been achieved by the previous Government and, therefore, we still see ourselves with fundamental problems in this area. Secondly, what matters is the results: even though there have been less happy statements by some ministers, who have been promptly corrected by themselves — and well! Open... [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u25	... what is decisive in this issue are the results. That is what really matters to third parties, and that is why we are working. Thirdly, the bilateral committee does not exhaust the political debate: it was never habitual for a Portuguese Foreign Minister to participate in the meetings of the bilateral committee. There are other areas of discussion, such as public consultations between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US Secretary of State, and it is effectively at this political level that this issue should be addressed. And finally, I cannot but make a reference to the draft resolution of the PSD, because I do not regard it as a criticism to the Government of the Republic. In fact, I see it as a sign of confidence for the work of the Government of the Republic. Otherwise, see: this draft resolution recommends that an annual report be sent to the Assembly of the Republic when there is now a semi-annual report which has been proposed and approved by the PSD itself,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD member Protests António Ventura.]] ... moreover, with the support of all the banks, and we have received these reports here in the Assembly of the Republic. Now comes the same PSD to recommend that reports become annual. Finally, I would like to say that the PS is not here to attack the PSD, CDS or any other party. The PS is here to defend the interests of the Azores and the Third Island. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD member Protests António Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u26	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD now found out that there was a problem with the Lajes Base.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u29	It's a fact! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u30	In fact, we recognize that there are several serious problems with the Lajes Base, only that they were not born today nor were born yesterday, they have been dragging themselves. Indeed, there has been a problem with the Lajes Base, which is that of the unilaterality of the US authorities in decisions on the Lajes Base. When it came to non-application of the Labour Agreement of the Lajes Base, the US authorities ceased to recognize rights to workers at the Lajes Base, they applied only what they fully understood rather than what was agreed with the Portuguese State, and the attitude of the Portuguese State at that time was to change the agreement as the American authorities intended, making the table concerned the safeguarding of the rights and interests of Portuguese workers at the Lajes Base. This is the truth. Therefore, this relationship has been marked by unilaterality in relation to the passivity of the Portuguese governments in this matter. from our point of view, it is necessary, regardless of the position of the US authorities, the Portuguese Government — either the Government of the Republic or the Government of the Autonomous Region of the Azores — to adopt a position to defend the national interest, the regional interest and the interests of the populations and workers of the Third Island. This is the essential issue, which is actually the creation of alternatives from an economic and social point of view to the American presence of the Lajes Base, and it is also necessary to take measures for soil decontamination, which are seriously affected from the environmental point of view for decades of stay of the Lajes Base. Therefore, from our point of view, it is fundamental, either the organs of the Government of the Region or the Government of the Portuguese Republic, that there is indeed a firm position towards defending the interest of Portugal, sovereignty of national independence, economic development of the Region and its people irrespective of the unilateral decisions taken by the US authorities on this matter. It is essential to demand that there be an assumption of responsibilities on the part of the US authorities for the fact that for many decades now they have enjoyed that great national infrastructure, with all the consequences, of course, from an environmental, social and economic point of view. from our point of view it must indeed be the position of the national authorities and from there that we, the CFP, both in the Assembly of the Republic and in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, support all the measures and resolutions taken in this direction, but not those which, by doing a racal table of everything that has happened over the years, have on the basis of finding that there is only one problem to be solved with the Lajes Base. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u31	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we speak of the Lajes Base, we are faced with two serious problems that are not at present. The first is linked to the pollution trail that the American military presence is leaving throughout the Third Island, namely the contamination of soils, aquifers and marine waters with hydrocarbons and heavy metals. The second problem concerns the need to respond to the problems of the local economy of the Third because, in fact, for decades, the various governments of our country have been allowing or even allowing the creation of a sort of absolute dependence on the local economy with the interests of the US Administration. Today, in the discussion of the various initiatives on the Lajes base, the first record that the Greens want to leave has to do with the fact that the text of the PSD resolution does not even give a word to the third island environmental liability due to the use of the Lajes Base by the US Administration—not even a word! And this, in our view, is a problem that must always be present when the discussion is the Base of the Lajes. As we know, the Lajes military base, on the third island, is used since the end of 2. the World War by the United States Air Force of America. And, over more than 60 years of use, several other infrastructures were built to support the operation of the base itself, including fuel deposits and connecting pipelines, especially from the port of Praia da Vitoria, to these same deposits. It happens that, over the years, many of these structures have been depositing the most diverse substances on the soil, and at the moment, with much of them disabled or even dismantled, we still do not know the degree of contamination that soils, aquifers and marine waters have suffered over time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u34	We know that since 2012 a programme has been implemented to rehabilitate and improve the environmental situation surrounding water supply holes in the city of Praia da Vitoria, in fact, a work accompanied by LNEC, whose report was issued in 2015. But, in addition to these operations, the City Hall of Victoria Beach has also recently taken on extraordinary water monitoring to ensure that they remain their own for human consumption. These works have been carried out and supported by the municipal company Praia Ambiente, owned by the Municipality of Praia da Vitória. We are talking about quite a lot of money, which is being borne, in full, by the authority and by the small municipal company and with little resources, as we all know. The Greens therefore consider that, first and foremost, the Portuguese Government has the obligation to secure the interests of the inhabitants of the Third Land, to ensure regional and national interests, but also has the obligation to require the US Administration to bear all costs for solving all problems caused by the use of the Lajes Base, in terms of the environmental liability of the Third Island, including the costs with the extraordinary monitoring of the waters currently being borne by the Victoria Beach Authority alone. And, in our perspective, this is the minimum that can be demanded.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u35	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Rebelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the PSD Parliamentary Group for bringing this relevant issue and - I would also like to refer to the projects of the Socialist Party and the Left Block. Before examining the concrete content of the draft resolutions, let me remind you of the following: from the first hour onwards, and it has not been now, Mr President. Members on the left, it has been a long time ago — that the CDS expressed its dissatisfaction with the way the US Government has dealt with this matter. And so, once again, we expressed our concern and our disappointment (and not this Administration, it was from the previous) because of the economic and social impact it brings in the Lajes, in the Praia Town Hall, in the Third Island, and in the Autonomous Region of Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u37	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u38	We therefore fear that this situation may have consequences for employment and business, beyond the environmental issue. We are disappointed that the security and defence agreement signed between Portugal and the United States is a strategic asset held between the two friendly countries — third is not a base of NATO, Mr. João Vasconcelos — which is essentially based on the use by the United States of this same basis. And with a reduction in the use of the Lajes Base, of course, it is also necessary to assess the consequences of the strategic relationship between the two countries. And, after five years since this unilateral decision by the United States was announced, it has not yet been possible to find a favorable or compensatory outcome that can complete the drastic reduction of the American presence in the Lajes. in this plan, I cannot fail to express our dissatisfaction with the ineffectiveness of the results achieved in bilateral committees. We go from committee to committee without progress, without realisation and without completion. We defend the need to explore new dimensions, not only in the field of defence and military, but in bilateral relations between the two countries. We believe that reducing the relationship between Portugal and the United States to its defence dimension is not only reducing how it does not reflect the bilateral moment in which it is living. There are other dimensions to explore, to enhance, and Portugal can do more and better to take them to good port. We hope that this review of the Lajes agreement can represent exactly the moment when we think about the relationship with the United States more comprehensively, integratedly and, let me say, also smarter, for good, of course, the Azores, their enviable strategic position, their economy and their populations. I am referring to the deepening, on the cultural and educational level, of university partners, of scientific projects and in this amplitude of mechanisms of approximation between our country and the United States. We believe that Portuguese diaspora investments in the archipelago can be enhanced, much of it originating in the Azores, if we are able, at the highest level, to develop. We can go further: the evaluation that the CDS-PP makes of scientific cooperation with incidence and benefit for the region is critical and not a recent phenomenon. However, we believe that a government that has all this available — because it has already said it publicly — then, in a demonstration of a flagrant and absolutely irreflective inability, is available for possible investments at the Lajes Base by a power that competes and competes with the United States internationally — to China, especially in a context where negotiations with the US authorities still take place. Mr President, summarizing, because time is passing, we agree and we broadly follow what is written in the PSD and PS resolution projects, initiatives that we will vote in favour. however, my dear friend Mr. João Vasconcelos, as regards the draft resolution of the Block of Left, it is clear that we do not agree with the form of the text and its style reflects...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u39	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u40	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, the style of the Left Block resolution project reflects a chronic anti-Americanism, resulting from an obvious ideological prejudice. The PCP, the Bloc and the Greens have a problem: they have always fought the presence of Americans at the base of the Lajes are now facing demonstrations that they want them to continue to be present, for the benefit of the peoples of the Azores. What a contradiction, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u41	Mrs. Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I noticed that the ladies. PSD Members were very upset when I referred to the fact that there were less happy statements from two ministers. But there's a difference, which I can't help but mention, between PS and PSD. It is that when PS ministers make mistakes they quickly hurry to correct them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u43	When the PSD makes mistakes or omissions, as is the case with the Lajes Base, it does not solve them, nor correct them, what it does is ask the PS to correct them now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we did not flee, and therefore we are here today and now correcting the mistakes and omissions of the various rulers, including the omissions of the former Secretary of State of Defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u44	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u45	And there is also another difference between PS and PSD. It is, on this subject, that the draft resolution presented by the PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u46	You have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u47	I'm done now, Mr. President. As the draft resolution presented by the PSD said on this topic does not refer to the third island's environmental liability only once. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u48	To conclude this debate, Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you three notes. The first is that the Government is not here to make statements, it has fled, it is hidden and does not want to answer the questions, it does not want to clarify this important issue, which is a matter of life or death. [[PSD applause.]] Second note: our project is December 2015. The PS project is three days ago, it came by drag, and it is an act of contribution to the incompetence of the government and of the PS Members, above all. [[PSD applause.]] Third note: Mrs. Deputy, one of the responsible for hiding the contamination is next to her, he was President of the Regional Government for 20 years; in 2008 when the report of the Americans on 2005 came to the public according to which there was contamination on the Third Island, the Social Communications Office, chaired by Carlos César, said the following: Mr. President. — Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u50	As he said, the media office, chaired by Carlos César, said the following: « There is no contamination on the third island ». You hid the contamination, you are one of the ones responsible for hiding and for not decontamination on the third island. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u51	Mrs. Members, let us begin the discussion of the projects of lein.os 426 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Organization of the electoral process abroad ( amendment to Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ( BE ), 427 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Election rehabilitation of Portuguese citizens living abroad ( BE ), 516 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Uniformizes the exercise of the right to vote of voters living abroad by making the twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May which regulates the election of the President of the Republic to 16. the amendment to Law No 14 / 79 of 16 May adopting the Elections Act for the Assembly of the Republic, to the sixth amendment to Law No 14 / 87 of 29 April adopting the Elections Act for the European Parliament, and to the repeal of Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ( Organization of the Elections for Foreign Affairs ) ( PSD ), 517 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Make the electoral census of Portuguese citizens living abroad informal and automatic, starting at 5. the amendment to Law No 13 / 99 of 22 March establishing the new Legal Regime of Electoral Recensation ( PSD ) and the proposals of lein. 77 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the Elections Act of the Assembly of the Republic and the Elections Act of the President of the Republic and 78 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Electoral Recensation. To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against abstention, the deepening of political participation and the creation of conditions of equality for the exercise of the same political participation for all Portuguese and Portuguese, irrespective of the country in which they live, are the foundations of the projects presented by the Block de Left today. Auto-registration and free voting are fundamental conditions for these objectives. I must say that we were quite pleased when we saw that the Government, with Bill No 78/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — which we can only support — follows the whole line proposed by the Left Block. The automatic and, therefore, mandatory registration, through the interoperability of the citizenship card, has also come closer to what has already been discussed with the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities. The Government has taken into account — and well — the situation of citizens who do not have a citizenship card and only have an identity card and also dual nationality situations, and the need for an express statement from the Portuguese citizen living abroad is also positive if they want to vote in the Members of the country of residence for the elections to the European Parliament once again in line with what the Left Block proposes. Therefore, we note an important approach by the Government to the real need and note that this proposal by the Government has been to reject, reject, point by point, the very opinion of the Ministry of Internal Administration, which was indeed quite critical of the draft law of the Left Block, and now the proposal of the Government follows the whole line of the proposals of the Left Block. We also follow Bill No 77/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) on the early vote in mobility which we consider to be an important step forward in facilitating the exercise of the right to vote and finally the possibility of voting autonomously, by invisible citizens, through the creation of polling bulletins and Braille matrices, once again in accordance with what the Left Block had already proposed in 2011. Apart from the Government's proposals, however, there is one aspect which we consider essential for the equal conditions of the voting exercise for all Portuguese, which is the freeness of the vote. The DSATEE ( Directorate for Technical Support and Electoral Studies ) had the ability to make the accounts and it is verified that, in a scenario where all Portuguese citizens living abroad vote, if spent with this amendment, with the guarantee of free voting by correspondence for Portuguese citizens living abroad, €700,000, which represents less than 1 € for each voter and the Left Block considers that democracy is worth much more than that. Today we are also discussing PSD bills that contain aspects of which we stand out. We cannot follow the PSD. Although they have confirmed the need to end the voluntary census and to consider the automatic and compulsory census, they end up introducing it through the 'fund door' when the citizen is expected to request the cancellation of the automatic census. This creates an unequal mosaic between Portuguese citizens living abroad who will then be listed in the country where they reside and those who are not. It makes no sense, so what the PSD really wants through the projects that today bring to the discussion is, the towing of the issues of the census, to revive the discussion on the vote for the President of the Republic. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is the electoral capacity, another is the way of voting in the various elections. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u53	You want to finish, Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u54	The Left Block considers that everyone has its own foundations and is not our intention at the moment to support changes in this area. Finally, I would like to welcome the citizen initiative, particularly the petition "We are also Portuguese", which, as they always do, has the merit of encouraging debate and legislative production in this area. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u55	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u56	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Social Democratic Party today presented the projects of lein. 516 and 517 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), the purpose of which is to review electoral legislation and the registration regime for Portuguese non-residents in Portugal. We do so after a broad debate. A debate that has mobilized living forces, representatives of communities, many people, with a central objective: we can find consensual solutions, solutions in which communities are seen, solutions that are mainly useful to increase the number of voters, the electoral participation of Portuguese non-residents in the national territory. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u57	We also do so to improve the link between communities and Portugal. For us, it is essential that this be done, because the Portuguese of the diaspora are as Portuguese as they are here, and for that we have to have legislative instruments that are going to meet this objective. We also do so to eliminate the false censuses in Portugal, giving a contribution to, once and for all, ending unacceptable situations of having thousands of people in Portugal identified but we know that they reside outside the country. What, then, are the essential proposals we make? From now on, the uniformization of voting methods. We understand that it is unacceptable to continue to have a face-to-face voting method for the President of the Republic or for the European Parliament and a postal voting method in the elections for the Assembly of the Republic. We must find a mixed method that serves the Portuguese, so that they can opt for the method that best serves them and that allows their participation to be more active. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u58	We then propose the automatic census, based on the citizen card database. We believe that it is acceptable for this to happen, obviously safeguarding all those situations that may clash with the right of dual nationality in countries where it does not exist. We also propose that the Government progress, from now on, with an electronic voting experience, perhaps carried out in Portugal, in the national territory, but also, outside the national territory, in order to be able to aquilaate the security of a model of this nature and, of course, we seek to end the unacceptable, unacceptable limitation of the candidacy of the binanationals in the circles where they have the second nationality. We therefore put forward these proposals in a reforming logic of the system, I repeat, being available for all consensuss in order to find good solutions for Portuguese non-residents in the national territory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u59	On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of the time limit, I shall summarize the two proposed laws of the Government amending the electoral regime. The first aims at the electoral laws of the President of the Republic, of the Assembly of the Republic and of the European Parliament and, above all, aims to extend the participation of citizens in these electoral acts, in full respect of the three principles conforming to our electoral system which are the uniqueness, confidentiality and the 'visibility' of the right to vote. And I would highlight here the three main measures: firstly, the introduction of the early vote in mobility, in order to allow all voters registered in the national territory to exercise the vote on the seventh day before the elections, at a vote table in advance chosen by them. To this end, the voting tables will be set up in advance in municipalities with a greater number of voters in each intermunicipal entity and in all islands of the autonomous regions. If the elector does not exercise his or her right to vote in advance, he or she may always exercise it on the day of the election itself. Secondly, I stress the introduction of Braille matrices, in everything identical to the ballot papers and which will be superimposed on them, in order to allow their reading and express indication of the vote, by voters with visual impairment, thus allowing them to exercise their voting rights perfectly autonomously. Finally, I refer to the experimental implementation in the next electoral act for the European Parliament of the present electronic vote in at least 10 councils of the country. The second proposal aims to amend the Electoral Review Act and aims to ensure the equal treatment of the electoral census of national citizens, in particular by implementing the following measures: firstly, the automatic identification of voters whose residence indicated on the citizenship card is abroad. In other words, citizens who have residence abroad are automatically registered in the commission identifying the diplomatic representation of the area of residence inscribed on their citizenship card. Portuguese voters abroad can also choose, if they understand it, by electing Members of the European Parliament in their country of residence. Secondly, the whole process of identification of national citizens holding citizenship cards is uniformed, which are automatically registered in the settlement commission inscribed on the citizenship card. however, it will always continue to allow those citizens who still have identity cards to sign up. Finally, the number of electors is removed, maintaining the link of the elector to the address entered on the citizen's card. This will allow, for example, the generation of electoral books in alphabetical order, always being the name of the elector allied to his address, thus enabling his unequivocal recognition. I think this is one step to take to take another step that we have already entered into the SIMPLEX Programme, which is the implementation of electronic electoral books, which will allow for the dematerialization of these electoral books and their online download through the use of the citizenship card, which will give even greater guarantee to the single vote. We are, of course, available, in our discussion of the speciality, to discuss all the proposals for legislative amendment which are currently under consideration in Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u61	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u62	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs. Members: Today's initiatives on electoral census and organization of the electoral process abroad raise some comments. The CFP agrees with the initiatives taken to facilitate the exercise of the voting rights of our compatriots living abroad and to facilitate the registration of these citizens in the electoral census, and may use the citizenship card database for this purpose. There are, however, serious constitutional problems in the initiatives under discussion that we cannot fail to point out vehemently and draw the attention of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The automatic nature of the electoral census abroad raises an undeniable constitutional problem with regard to the presidential elections. in fact, when, in the 1997 constitutional review, the right of emigrants to vote in the presidential elections was established, this right was constitutionally conditional on the proof of ties of effective link to the national community, whose criterion of measurement was referred to law to pass by a majority of two-thirds. in the Electoral Law, the option assumed was that, being the census abroad voluntary, this demonstration of will by the citizens would be considered as evidence of effective linkage to the national community and, as such, was recognized to citizens voluntarily identified abroad the right to vote in the election of the President of the Republic. If the census becomes automatic, the constitutional authorization for the right to vote in the presidential elections is based on the basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u64	We are facing a clear violation of the Election Law for the President of the Republic, which is a strengthened value law whose approval requires a qualified two-thirds majority. We are unequivocally aware that the census abroad should be facilitated, but it can never provide a demonstration of will on the part of citizens living abroad that allows them one of three options: not to be registered, not to be registered abroad or to maintain the census on national territory, if they have resided here. It is important to remember two things in this regard. On the one hand, a citizen who has his registration transferred to the foreign country loses the right to vote in the elections. If you are resident in national territory and have an interest in exercising your right to vote here, you should be able to do so from our point of view. Auto-registration prevents this possibility. On the other hand, according to the law of the country of residence, a citizen exercising political rights in Portugal may lose that right in the host country. This would be another undesirable consequence of automatic censusing, which is very serious and can only be avoided.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u65	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u66	Moreover, the automatic registration of nearly a million voters in the electoral books substantially and irremediably alters the national electoral college. in the case of a referendum in which these citizens have the right to vote, the rate of abstention, which invariably occurs abroad, condemns practically the reference to legal inefficiencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u67	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u68	I will finish, Mr. President. In short, the inclusion of citizens in the electoral census abroad should be facilitated, but this cannot be done at the cost of violating constitutional requirements and creating undesirable effects that may even be detrimental to the rights of migrants themselves in host countries. Registration abroad cannot dispense a demonstration of will on the part of citizens. Finally, Mr President, the PSD's proposal to allow voting by correspondence in the presidential elections would be a very serious step back. Consecration of the right of emigrants to vote in the presidential elections had as an express condition the present vote, since it is understood that this electoral act cannot be subject to the insecurity, by all recognized, of the vote by correspondence. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u69	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u70	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: It is three minutes we have to discuss so many legislative initiatives, which is obviously not easy, until it is a relevant matter and not just a democratic system. In fact, the Minister also referred to this. By going directly to the subject, as to the freeness of the vote of the Portuguese residents abroad, which the Left Block advocates, we have nothing to oppose. It is a matter of equity that we accompany and which deserves our acceptance. With regard to the automatic and informal census of Portuguese residents abroad, a common design for both the PSD and the Government, both the Left Block, we perceive it and we support the kindness of the intention, but we have some reservations of technical charism, which, of course, will be raised in the field of specialty, which is precisely for this purpose, and some reservations of conceptual charism that are related to the fact that we understand that they can complicate more than help the lives of these citizens. And we say this why? Because these citizens are supposed to be integrated into their host countries and this issue can help to keep them away, and it can create some entropies in the sense of these citizens, wanting to vote in their host countries, they have to do it voluntarily. So we're going to have a problem that has to be seen with caution and with care. As for the mobility vote, which the Government proposes, this is a modern, simplified option, is a design of all of us and it was also enshrined in our electoral programme. however, it falls late, because this measure was enshrined in SIMPLEX + 2016, it would enter into force at the end of last year and we will probably arrive at the end of this year without this measure coming into force—it is only one more in the slip of SIMPLEX, that is not what causes us great move...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u71	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u72	What is absolutely essential — and that is what we all need to be concerned about — is that all security conditions have to be guarded and the CDS will keep this in mind and will not stop worrying about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u74	What can never be called into question is legal certainty and security, as Mr. Minister knows very well. Therefore, the secret, inviolability and freedom of vote are three essential pillars of a democratic system that must be absolutely assured. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u75	Therefore, it is vital to make a fine analysis, with all cautions, to realize that this is not, in fact, beautified. I conclude by saying, Mr President, that the simplification of registration and the forms of voting, not being the alpha and the omega of democratic participation, obviously help to this democratic participation—we have no doubt about that—but that is not even the most important path, there are other ways we have to do and that, moreover, we are already doing it. For a system that is already beautified, disturbed with some distrust, mistrust, remoteness and indifference, there is nothing worse than introducing more mistrust mechanisms. Any failure, even small ones, can have serious consequences and generate more and more mistrust. Therefore, our warning is to simplify — yes, as far as possible — but to introduce ways that may eventually adulterate or harm the system of democratic participation. Therefore, the CDS will be alert and will not fail to examine this and to do everything so that there is simplification and no entropy in this process. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u76	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three or four minutes for the Government or for parliamentary groups is clearly little time to address with the required depth matters of a constitutional nature relevant to the structure of democratic sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u79	I therefore wish to accept the commitment, on behalf of the PS bench, of a deep commitment to the assessment of the expertise of the set of proposals and of the proposed bills presented. I naturally begin by congratulating the fact that these matters show the purpose of contributing to creating more favourable conditions for the exercise of the right to vote by citizens, from the outset with the possibility of extension to Portuguese citizens living abroad of the automatic registration in conjunction with the citizenship card, but also with the deepening of the possibilities and conditions of exercise of the early vote in mobility of the citizens identified in the national territory and with the innovation, in combating discrimination, of voting in Braille for the blind. That said, it is important to underline the nature of the right of suffrage. We are faced with a legal, constitutional right, and we are faced with a duty towards citizenship. The link between this right and this duty implies that we can all understand that the exercise of the right to vote is a voluntary act linked to the feeling of belonging of any citizen to their democratic community. The exercise of the right to vote is not officially a function of the State. We must therefore be careful to avoid, in particular, public forms of financial support for the individual exercise of the right to vote, based on the autonomy and personal responsibility of each citizen. I would also like to stress that we are faced with a matter of greater sensitivity with regard to the need to ensure individual independence of the vote. Voting is intransmissible, it is indelegable, and that is why, in all those situations where our Constitution requires an equal weighting of the vote in the relationship between the number of registered candidates and the number of candidates to be elected, the essential principle of the present vote is established. The present vote cannot therefore be abandoned in these situations. In short, and because time is running out, I reaffirm, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, at the level of the specialty and also taking note of the warnings taken here by Mr António Filipe as regards the conditions of exercise for the election of the President of the Republic, will be fully available for work with the Government and with all parliamentary groups. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u80	Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, Portugal has always been a country distributed around the world. If we are a country divided around the world, it is good that those who live abroad can also have the opportunity to take advantage of the one who is the main element of citizenship, which is to participate in the decisions of our country. Today, we are working here and discussing a set of diplomas that allow the possibility of increasing the civic participation of Portuguese abroad. There is something that seems to us to have already found some consensus, which is the automatic licensing of Portuguese residents abroad. But it also seems to us that, for good solutions associated with this automatic census, it is essential to simplify the voting method, i.e., it is essential to change the electoral laws,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u82	...because, sirs. Members, if we are to have 1, 2 or 1, 3 million Portuguese registered abroad and if the voting method is the same today, we risk having historical abstentions that can turn against our communities. Therefore, we appeal that, in the context of discussion in the specialty, we may find the possible consensus to meet the appeals of the Council of the Portuguese Communities and the petitioners of the petition We are also Portuguese, to simplify the method of voting and to put the Portuguese who are abroad on an equal footing with those who are in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u83	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u84	I will now finish, Mr President, just saying that if we, on the one hand, increase the registration and do not change the electoral legislation, it seems that we are on one side and withdrawing from the other. I conclude with one regret: I thought that in 2017 I would not hear, in the Assembly of the Republic, parliamentary groups, regarding the exercise of the right to vote for the presidential elections, that the Portuguese who reside in Portugal are more Portuguese than the Portuguese who reside abroad. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u85	Mrs. Members, the evaluation of the projects of lein 426, 427, 516 and 517 / XIII is completed ( 2. ( a ) and proposals for lein. 77 and 78 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). Let us start point 3 of the agenda consisting of the joint discussion of lein.o 478 / XIII projects ( 2. ( a ) — Determines refusal of entry and residence into national territory to all foreigners who are convicted of the practice of terrorism under their law ( fourth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July 2007 — Approves the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of aliens from national territory ) ( CDS-PP ), 479 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the loss of Portuguese nationality by anyone who is also a national of another State, in case of conviction for the practice of the crime of terrorism ( eighth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October - Nationality Act ) ( CDS-PP ) and 480 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Access to traffic, location or other related communications data by officials and agents of the information services of the Portuguese Republic ( CDS-PP ), generally of draft resolutions 778 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government approve a security plan for each of the Portuguese international airports ensuring the sharing of information between their administrations and security forces and services ( CDS-PP ), 779 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen and expand all elements of the security forces performing functions of proximity police, specific training in the detection, prevention and combating of terrorism ( CDS-PP ) and 852 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the strategies and action plans arising from the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy and adopts a strategic plan for the safety of airport infrastructure ( PSD ) and generally of the proposed law No 79 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the special arrangements for access to basic data and electronic communications traffic data by SIRP. To present the CDS-PP diplomas, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS today brings to this House a set of five diplomas and the first reference I would like to do is to know and understand what is at stake and what these five diplomas are dealing with, which basically aim to strengthen prevention and combating terrorism and also highly organized crime. The first question, when we talk about terrorism, is to realize that we are talking about an evolutionary phenomenon, a phenomenon that has changed, a phenomenon that is no longer that of traditional terrorist networks, with some institutionality, or even of Al-Qaeda, with an organizational model and training universities, but rather a terrorism that is based today on the so-called "the concept of solitary wolves", i.e. extremists, suicides, often self-radicalized. Therefore, the answer obviously has an ideological dimension, but it is not so much an ideological response, it is, above all, an answer to our responsibility. That is, what we, men and women, politicians in today's Europe can do to ensure that our citizens are as much as possible, because there is no zero risk, protected from this phenomenon of terrorism. [[CDS-PP applause.]] There are those who tell us that this is a debate between freedom and security, which basically concerns freedom to be safe. But when we see, as happened recently in London, a young mother dies when she was going to pick up her children at school, or when we see children die in the Metropolitan of St. Petersburg, the question is obvious. The question is not to exclude freedom from security, the question is to know what security is that we have to adopt in order to continue to use our freedoms. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Annual Internal Security Report itself alerts us to the worsening of the risk factor in our country. It is still a moderate but alerted to the worsening risk factor in Portugal. So the question is, what can we do? Now, the CDS presents a number of proposals. First of all, the famous question of metadata. What's this about? These are basically our information services, which we know are, nationally and internationally, the most effective way to prevent terrorist attacks, to have access to banking data, among others, but above all communication data. In other words, someone who enters our country, who is referred to as a threat, the information services may at least know whom you have spoken to, whom you have contacted, which network can be connected to. This is, of course, a fundamental instrument and we stress once again that Portugal, from the point of view, is late and is an exception in Europe. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u87	Secondly, the protection of our external border. The classic distinction—in which we had internal administration or even, in a more ancient concept, the so-called 'internal', so to speak, and the 'external'—with this kind of threat, does not exist. These types of threats are internal, but of course they have external origin. That is why it is essential that we protect the external border, and this obviously means until after some unrecommendable episodes that we watch at our airports, among other things, that we can guarantee security. We therefore ask the Government — and the Minister has already admitted in some way that she would do so, and the PSD has also presented a draft resolution on this issue — that there is a clear and unequivocal plan to strengthen the protection of our airports and also, as a result, of the so-called 'critical infrastructures'. On the other hand, and this is something which will obviously be controversial and which has no consensus, we also consider that foreign citizens, who have been convicted or who are linked to terrorist associations, cannot enter Portuguese territory. For us, this is an unequivocal matter. More: we believe that a Portuguese citizen, who also has another nationality or who acquires another nationality, who commits terrorist crimes and who is condemned for this must lose Portuguese nationality. This is a matter which we consider fundamental and which, from our point of view, has important reflection and symbolic value. Finally, we believe that the best way to prevent these phenomena—and I call your attention to this phenomenon of lonely wolves... who are these lonely wolves? Normally, they are self-radicalized young people who, as terrorists, cannot be said to be in a very high degree of competence, most of the time they do not have a militarized degree or a very high level of competence, have basic levels of damage, but can act and are difficult to detect. So, what's the way to detect? Obviously, it's in proximity. We therefore present here a draft resolution recommending to the Government that all of our security officers — and we know that there is no — in the area of terrorism detection, prevention and proximity, they have a basic training to detect and combat terrorism. We are doing this for the good, considering that the solutions that we are presenting can be discussed, can be improved, we welcome it, Mrs Minister — and it has been so many times since I asked her about this — that the Government has also brought up its proposal for debate, and although it has done so, we do so with the awareness that it only wants to ensure that everything has been done, following the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy, so that the Portuguese are, as far as our capacities are concerned, protected by this phenomenon as political men. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u88	Mr Fernando Negrão spoke for a presentation of the PSD initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u89	Mr President, Ms Minister for Internal Administration, Ms Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Members : Today, several legislative initiatives are under discussion that address various issues, but all with a common trunk, national security. According to the 2016 RASI, the Annual Internal Security Report, in the context of complex crime and transnational threats, Portugal follows the international panorama. Our country faces threats similar to those faced by countries in the geo-strategic and political space that we are closer to and in which we project many of our interests. In terms of global threats, new concerns are added in the area of security policies, which deserve concerted action by the Member States and which aims to expose the effectiveness of the response to the global threat, the result of the globalisation of society and the economy, which is combined with the dissemination of information technologies, which have enhanced the advent of new criminal realities. It has been seen—and this has been particularly visible in recent days—an increase in episodes of complex and aggressive forms of global attack in cyberspace, materialized in the incidences of specific forms of cybercrime, which increasingly show a tendency to increase and sophistication not only in Portugal but throughout the world. We have been affected by agencies and companies, such as banks in Russia, hospitals in the United Kingdom, the Spanish telecommunications operator Telefónica and, in Portugal, companies and public services, especially hospitals, forcing them to cut access to the Internet. According to the 2016 Annual Internal Security Report, evidence has been collected and assessed in recent years that account for the worsening of some risk factors, evidence already detected in our country, in particular in support of terrorist structures to be operated abroad, particularly in Europe. Although this situation is so far assessed as an isolated and timely example, there is no evidence that they point to the existence of identical structures to operate permanently in Portugal, it is expressly considered in the report that the emergence of similar situations may contribute to a change in the pattern of the terrorist threat that impedes on our country. It is also reported in the latest Annual Internal Security Report that our country is also an alternative place to other countries in Europe for the acquisition and transfer of technology and knowledge to countries considered to be at risk. To this end, the country is endowed with a National Counter-Terrorism Strategy, published on 20 February 2015, which sets out among its lines of action the necessary updating of the coordination plan, control and operational control of security forces and services, as well as the development of the Action Plan for the Protection and Strengthening of Critical Infrastructure Resilience, with their security plans, the responsibility of operators, and external security plans, of the responsibility of the National Civil Protection Authority ( ANCC ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u91	It is of the utmost importance that our country has adequate instruments that are up to the nature of the transnational threats that we are currently facing. in this sense, it is urgent to give full compliance and follow-up to the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy, and to develop and update the strategies and action plans identified in this document.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u93	That is to say, it is urgent to develop the action plan for the prevention of radicalization and recruitment for terrorism, to update the National Action Plan against Nuclear, Biological, Chemical and Radiological Attacks, to develop the Action Plan for the Protection and Strengthening of Critical Infrastructure Resilience, to implement the National Action Plan for the Protection of Cyberameas, to update the plan for coordination, control and operational control of security forces and services, to develop the Plan for the Protection of Portuguese Communities and National Interests abroad. Of particular importance is the problem of airports between us. in the last year, we have repeatedly witnessed the worrying security breakdowns at Humberto Delgado Airport, with the escape of several foreign citizens, who, having managed to steal from police control, have transposed the internal security network. Despite Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, in an apparent attempt to devalue, to say that these are isolated cases, the news of security breaches at the airport alone are worrying, insofar as they can trigger their use for much more serious situations than only episodes of mere illegal immigration on economic grounds. It is in this sense that the PSD Parliamentary Group considers it to be of the greatest urgency for the Government to draw up a strategic plan for the safety of airport infrastructures with a view to preventing and reacting to possible terrorist threats from breaking security situations. I don't want to leave here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to refer to the question of metadata because of its importance. Information services, taking into account their preventive nature and in accordance with the fulfilment of their threat assessment mission, cooperate with various internal security actors, bilaterally and multilaterally. In this context, their competences are highlighted for the assessment and determination of the degree of threat, in relation to people, facilities and events. In view of the centrality of the threat of terrorism, information services have been strengthening their prevention mechanisms, outlining international cooperation as the cornerstone of this objective. There are still constraints, however, that require a clear strengthening of their operational capacity and only to this extent can these services respond effectively to the growing security and defence requirements of national interests. To this end, both the CDS and the Government presented two legislative initiatives. First, it is clear that traffic data and other data related to telecommunications equipment are those relating to the identification of the subscriber or user, the search and identification of the source, destination, date, time, duration and type of communication and, finally, the identification of the telecommunications equipment or its location. Make it clear, traffic data are not content data. It is not intended to know the content of the communications, but only the circumstantial data of the communications. However, the essential issue, and we need to talk about it, is the one referred to in Article 34. that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, i.e. it is to ascertain whether the activity of the information service can be integrated into a criminal process. Here we come to the discussion of the balance between security and freedom, since the Constitution, in Article 27 ( 1 ). it gives them the same predominance: « Everyone has the right to freedom and security». For this constant tension the Constitution offers, as a distinguishing element, the principle of proportionality, which, in turn, unfolds in the need for the pursuit of a legitimate purpose, of adequacy to that end and of its need or accountability. in this sense, it should be borne in mind that the information services have a decisive role to play in safeguarding internal security and in monitoring and detecting threats in the field of espionage and terrorism, and also Mrs and Mrs. Members, the prevention of acts which, by their nature, may jeopardize the constitutionally consecrated democratic state. Thus, it can be concluded by the existence of a complementary relationship between the activity of the production of information and the activity that takes place in the criminal proceedings. Therefore, in these new legislative initiatives, we see access to metadata by the information service restricted to espionage and terrorism, with demanding levels of intervention by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts, and also with a special monitoring aspect, in particular through the National Data Protection Commission. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The times change and, changing, require new attitudes and answers from us. That is what we are doing now, certain of the need for these solutions and certain that the Constitution has the life within it capable of giving new answers to the needs of new times. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u94	To present the bill, you have the floor of Ms. Minister of Internal Administration, Urban Constance de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government submits this bill with the aim of providing the Republic's information services with a tool that is absolutely essential today to the exercise of the production of information necessary to guarantee internal security and also to safeguard the vital interests of the State, also ensuring respect for fundamental rights. Today there are threats to the democratic rule of law, such as terrorism, which, because of its scope and impact, are particularly corrosive to the pillars of States and to the well-being of society. It is therefore absolutely necessary to provide the information services of the necessary instruments so that they can effectively carry out their mission, like the other information services in the European area they work with. It is the Government's understanding that this bill, which establishes a very special and very restrictive regime for access to basic data and traffic data, communications by the SIRP ( Information System of the Portuguese Republic ), is in accordance with the Constitution as a whole and respects its constitutional limits. First of all, it is only access to basic and locational data that enables individuals to obtain identity and location, as well as access to traffic data, provided it is essential for the prevention of acts of terrorism or espionage. This is never, in any case, about access to the content of communications. That is to say, it is so simple to know whether a certain person, who is suspected of involvement in a terrorist organization, has contacted A or B, but never to know what A or B said, i.e., it is never about access to the content of communication itself or correspondence. Secondly, this bill seeks to meet the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and an up-to-date interpretation of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic as a whole, respecting the principles of necessity, adequacy and proportionality which must always preside over any restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees. What is at stake here is the need for a practical reconciliation between fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution. The right to freedom and security, both enshrined in Article 27. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, and the right to secrecy of communications, as set out in Article 34. that of the Constitution itself. I recall that, in accordance with Article 9. that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, is a fundamental task of the State not only to guarantee the rights, freedoms and guarantees — where without doubt it includes the right to security, not only individually but also collectively — but also to guarantee and promote the well-being of the community. Security is not only a fundamental right of the citizen, it is also a fundamental task of the State. And, in the face of the phenomenon of international terrorism which today affects the fundamental rights of all and, to the limit, the right to life, the Portuguese State cannot resign itself from its obligations, national and international, to prevent and combat terrorism. In view of all this, we must find answers to reconcile constitutional restrictions on the inviolability of communications, which are never an absolute right, with the constitutional values of safeguarding the safety, well-being of the community and, to the limit, the protection of the right to life always in accordance with the constitutional principles of necessity, adequacy and proportionality. We are convinced that this bill guarantees practical reconciliation between these two fundamental values, in which the value of privacy cannot be seen as an absolute and autonomous value of security. This bill also complies with the constitutional assumptions of the restriction of freedoms, rights and guarantees, limiting itself to what is necessary to safeguard constitutional rights of all, such as the right to security, which must ultimately be the object of practical conciliation with the right to inviolability of communications by only a few, which is not, in accordance with the Constitution — and I repeat — an absolute right. First of all, access by the SIRP to telecommunications data—i.e. information about whether a particular person communicated with another person, but never access to the content of such communication—is only and can only be authorised when it comes to the defence of those fundamental values, in particular in the prevention of terrorism and espionage, and provided that it is necessary, appropriate and proportionate to such defence. That is, it is not, I repeat, ever, about access to the content of communications. Secondly, this access is subject to very strict judicial control, from the outset, at the highest level, guaranteed by prior authorization by the Supreme Court — a prior and compulsory authorisation — but also by a very demanding set of requirements that condition that same authorisation and aim, in essence, to ensure the need, adequacy and proportionality of such access. This is truly an exceptional process, insofar as it can only be authorized by the Supreme Court of Justice, when it comes to obtaining information solely on the contacts of a particular person and never, I repeat, on the contents of such communications and when such information is impossible to obtain otherwise, or it is very difficult to obtain otherwise, or when it is absolutely necessary in an emergency situation to safeguard the vital interests of the State, such as preventing a terrorist attack, which always has an absolutely devastating effect. Another safeguard is the fact that a real-time connection of this data is never permitted, which is a further guarantee that access to this type of data is subject to prior and rigorous judicial scrutiny. The Supreme Court's own prior authorization is also subject to a very tight set of legal requirements. The request for authorisation itself must not only be substantiated, but absolutely circumstantial. Monitoring and monitoring is also guaranteed, always permanent throughout this process, by the Supreme Court of Justice and not only by the Attorney-General of the Republic, who is always informed. This external jurisdictional control shall be supplemented by internal control through the SIRP Data Monitoring Commission, composed of three prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office and also by the Board of Supervisory Board of the SIRP, which has the report of all these requests for judicial authorisations and also here may exercise its supervisory powers. Finally, I would also like to refer to the special requirements that are put to the agents of the SIRP, to whom this access is authorized by the Supreme Court, under all these conditions, by aggravating penalties not only in criminal proceedings of undue access but also in disciplinary proceedings. In conclusion, we consider that, with this bill, the need to provide the State with the appropriate, necessary and proportionate means to safeguard vital interests also constitutionally protected and fundamental rights of all collectives, such as the right to security, while, of course, respecting the constitutional assumptions of restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u96	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a little embarrassment here not exactly from the Bureau, but because there are two inscriptions, the PS and Fernando Negrão, from the PSD, to ask for clarifications from the Minister and the Minister only have 6 seconds for the answer to both.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u97	The PS can give you time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u98	So I ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, your requests for clarification remain. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, do you keep your request for clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u99	I can fly to an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u100	He will then make an intervention. What about Mr Fernando Negrão?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u101	I keep the record, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u102	So Mr. Fernando Negrão has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u103	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, Portugal is in fact the only country in the European Union that does not have this information exchange mechanism. And we know that, in the field of intelligence, we need to provide information in order to have information. Therefore, I would say that this is the principle of the existence of a true information service. About two years ago, the Socialist Party supported the legislative initiative of the PSD and the CDS as a government in this area. We have now evolved and the PSD and the CDS support the initiative that the Government has just presented. What I ask you, Mrs Minister, is whether you think constitutionally the effort has been made to meet what is expected of the Constitutional Court. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u104	for the short time remaining, you have the word, to answer, Mrs. Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u105	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I have no doubt that our Constitution must always be read as a whole and at the moment we have two constitutional values, equally protective, which need practical conciliation. I believe that with all these cautions, with the guarantee of judicial control at the highest level, all the assumptions are gathered so that this bill or this law does not deserve a judgment of unconstitutionality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to a stage of intervention. First of all, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, taking advantage of the point just made by the Minister following Mr Fernando Negrão's question, it is important to focus this debate on an indisputable issue, namely constitutionality. And, in fact, I feel reasonably comfortable in this regard, since, despite the Socialist Party's considerable doubts in the adoption of the legal regime which the Constitutional Court came to declare unconstitutional, personally, until I voted against this legal regime, because I had serious doubts about the previous regime. in the configuration that we have to make of the regime to be approved, we must also take into account the jurisprudence produced by the Constitutional Court. And the Court is particularly clear when it says that it is precisely the lack of intervention of a judicial entity, and I quote « required by Article 32. , paragraph 4 of the Constitution', with regard to intervention in rights, freedoms and guarantees, which demonstrates that it is not possible to configure the act of access to private communication data by information services officials, as by incorporating a criminal process. And, on the contrary, that is precisely what seems clear to me in this bill which is discussed here in plenary. The judicial intervention, and now clearly, no doubt, concerning the nature of the court which is called upon to intervene in the case, gives this assurance that the Court has pointed out as a fundamental matter for its earlier pronouncement in the sense of unconstitutionality. In addition to this, also the vote of maturity, at the time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u108	Voting over? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u109	... the Councillor Maria Lucia Amaral stressed even other aspects which, in her understanding, caused her concern, that is, she went beyond the consensus of the judges who voted unconstitutionality, and even said that matters as "what to do? , "how do I keep it? , « how to destroy data? », once unnecessary to use them, they should also be guarded in the law, which seems to be sufficiently and fully resolved in this bill, responding to the constitutional problems that arise here and which seem to us to be overcome and may merit the favourable vote of the majority of the banks. In addition, and since we are talking about constitutionality, not wanting, in fact, to extend the debate, but it is a subject which is also under discussion and therefore must be positioned here, we already deserve the greatest reservations, precisely in terms of constitutionality, the initiative of the CDS on the loss of nationality. This is because, on the one hand, it emerges as an automatic effect of a judicial decision condemning the practice of a particular crime, which is manifestly a violation of a direct constitutional command that prevents it, i.e., it could be configured in another way, but in this way, as presented in the proposal made by the CDS, unfortunately, it will, necessarily, bar in a judgment of unconstitutionality. And, on the other hand, there is no question about this issue, but it is not even the main thing to bear in mind that, with regard to nationality, as a fundamental right, the possibility of its loss is also a factor of concern and, in terms of proportionality, necessity and adequacy, we also believe that, substantially, it would be worthy of a judgment of unconstitutionality, which is why, clearly, we cannot follow this proposal with a favourable vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u110	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The debate we have been holding is about combating terrorism, but we cannot hide the debate that we really are working here today and that is about legal limitations and non-legal limitations to fundamental rights and freedoms, in accordance with the Constitution. And I believe that there are two falsities that have fuelled this debate on combating terrorism in Portugal, the first of which is that we are the only country in which there is no access to communication data that can effectively investigate the responsibilities in this area. Well, the truth is, like all the Members and all the Members. Members will know that the Judicial Police, as a criminal investigation police, has access to data on communications in criminal proceedings, exactly as the Constitution commands.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u112	That's something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u113	The Constitution is clear from this point of view: access to these data can only be given in the context of a criminal process. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u114	And there is a body that has jurisdiction for this, according to what the Constitution says. Secondly, there is another falsity: that, in order to combat terrorism, we must put between parentheses essential aspects of the rule of law, the state of democratic law, democratic legality and thus create states of exception, where fundamental rights and freedoms are not valid. Now, I think this is fake and dangerous. This is because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is it acceptable for a journalist, for example, to see the data on his communications with one of his sources being the target of interference for this source to be suspected, for example, of spying? Oh, my God! I do not believe that this is acceptable in a rule of law, and I therefore believe that we must be extremely cautious in defending the rule of democratic law. Therefore, the basic question, I believe, is whether we are intransigent in defending the state of democratic law or if we give in to blackmail and diminish the state of democratic law. Now, the Constitution is clear on this. I'm sorry to remind you. Members the literal content of Article 34. the, paragraph 4 of the Constitution, which literally prohibits interference in communications, telecommunications, (...) except as provided for in the criminal proceedings law. Everything's here, and it's clear! And the Constitutional Court, which has already been quoted here by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, was also clear in this regard in its 2015 judgment, which I am quoting, so that there is no doubt. The Constitutional Court said : « (...) there is a broad consensus (...) to include traffic data in the concept of communications which are constitutionally relevant to the prohibition of interference ». I do not believe that the Constitutional Court leaves any doubt about this. However, it adds the Constitutional Court : « That is to say: the scope of the protection of Article 34. paragraph 4 shall cover not only the content of telecommunications but also the traffic data.’ Therefore, I believe that the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, despite all the vicissitudes that have already been underlined here, is strictly unequivocal in this regard. The crucial issue, in my view, is not to know who authorizes access to these data, as mentioned by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, but if access is outside a criminal process, in which case, then, this access is unconstitutional, and I believe that this obstacle cannot be overcome. Entitle such access to agents or officials of an entity whose purpose, whose mandate is not to assess judicially responsibilities, is another mandate, adds to the unconstitutionality of this measure. This is therefore our position on the proposed law and the draft law of the CDS, regarding the so-called « metadata ». We understand that both initiatives are unconstitutional and that the Constitution should not be violated in this area, whatever the pretext is. And we also trust that the entities which have the power to initiate the preventive supervision of constitutionality will do so and will enable the Constitutional Court to confirm — this is what we believe — its previous case-law. For us, essentially, two draft laws, presented by the CDS — and forgive-CL - will not refer to all initiatives — one on the loss of nationality and one on refusal of entry into Portuguese territory. from our point of view, one of these projects is redundant and the other is unconstitutional. The initiative on entry into Portuguese territory is redundant because, in Law No. 23 / 2007, in seven of its articles, the CDS did not see, because it was distracted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u115	Live, live!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u116	... there are a number of determinations that provoke this refusal. Finally, as regards the withdrawal of nationality, Article 30 has already been said here. the Constitution is clear: withdrawing nationality, following a judicial decision, is clearly unconstitutional. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that, for us, this is a debate on the essential core of what is and what cannot be a democratic rule of law. And the consistency of a rule of law is tested much more in difficult circumstances, in limited circumstances, than in a climate of normality. For us, accepting any form of big brother, in clear violation of the Constitution and democratic legality, does not empower democracy in combating serious crimes, weakens democracy. And, for us, weakening the rule of law, in good rigour, is a prize given to those who do not deserve that prize. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u117	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This CDS schedule could be baptized as a « Trump schedule », because unfortunately it has a little bit of everything here. It has the prejudice against immigrants, in the bill that determines the refusal of entry and stay into national territory of all foreigners condemned by the practice of the crime of terrorism, knowing the CDS that the two fundamental assumptions are that most of the terrorist attacks committed in Europe were - not by foreigners but by nationals of the territories themselves and that this prerogative is already covered by the law. The CDS had to get a bill that talked about foreigners and here's a bill that inserts prejudice about immigrants. There is also the bill for the loss of nationality, with all the unconstitutionalities that have already been mentioned here, for violation of articles 26. o is 30. the Constitution and a bill that curiously resolves nothing. Mr Telmo Correia says it's symbolic. Yeah, it's symbolic, but it has a clear political point that it's important to report. Then we have two draft resolutions, the first of which for a security plan for airports. As far as we know, national airports have long had security plans. We can discuss the need for your update, or not, but security plans exist. Interestingly, the CDS does not say a word about the main problem that exists, in our opinion, at national airports and that has to do with the precariousness of workers, hundreds of workers, within the airports and the weaknesses that this entails, from a safety point of view. The CDS doesn't say a word about it! The second draft resolution, one and a half, is on training for security forces and services agents in the context of combating these phenomena, training, which already exists and is already envisaged. Therefore, very little remains of CDS projects in this domain. In particular, there is one subject which will deserve the intervention of my comrade, Mr António Filipe, who is the question of metadata, but, as far as the rest, it remains very little. One final word, sirs. Members, for a collective alert and reflection, if possible. Anyone who reads the drafts, resolution and law, of the CDS — it is not difficult, since most of them have a page and a half — and who heard the CDS intervention, opening this debate, realizes that there is one element that is being used in political debate: fear. We believe that the use of fear as a political instrument should merit deep reflection, because it is not fear, above all a fear that does not correspond to reality, which must be the reason for the political discussion of these matters, which are so serious for our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u119	I now give the floor to Mr Filipe Neto Brandão for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u120	Mr President, Mrs Minister and Mrs Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Today's debate calls on all of us to reflect on one of the main threats to the rule of democratic law, such as terrorism, and thus to strengthen defence mechanisms with which, in strict respect for fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees, the State of democratic law must be given. Security, I know - well, is an unmistakable guarantee of freedom. Nobody is really free if you don't feel safe. Portugal is a safe country and we want it to continue to be. There is, today, how to ignore, and if there were, it would be irresponsible to do so, that several countries, with which we share the same cultural values, are being whipped by the irrationality of the phenomenon of terrorism and some of them live even for long months, like France, in a state of emergency, being the threats of new attacks aimed at Europe as a whole. The idea that Portugal should not fail to follow the defence mechanisms adopted by the other countries of the political-geographical space in which it is inserted is thus the only truly consistent with the need to strengthen our defences and security as the State's performance obligation. This is the case with the permission of legal and judicial conditionalisms to information services to so-called ‘trafficking data’ or ‘metadata’. Access to traffic data is noted, and never, at any time, to the content of communications and even that access is admissible only in the context of the prevention of espionage and terrorism. An atomic reading of the constitutional text that did not lead to the adaptation to the new reality that terrorism carries with it, besides not responding satisfactorily to the issue of collision between different fundamental rights or between different constitutional values, nor to paying attention to the difference in degree between traffic data and content data, would not fail to put on the Basic Law a reforming pressure that it, in our view, would well dispense. We live in new times, for which we will have to be aware that innovative, effective and uncomplexed responses are required. The classical structuring of our legal systems, particularly criminal orders, is based on the assumption that the practice of a crime is a penalty, that the initiation of an evil — if any, deprivation of liberty for some time — will dissuade the criminal from his practice. When, however, we are confronted with recurring reports of terrorist attacks, in which the shocking disregard for the lives of third parties adds to the contempt of their authors for their own lives and, more often than that, even by the will, rewarded in a paradise awaiting them, to put an end to their own lives, it is easy to conclude that the comination of a penalty, in which our entire criminal process rests, becomes suddenly inoperative in the face of the imminent attack and the disproportionate result of its damaging. There are too many examples—and all these too painful examples—that prove us that the pressure placed by the community on the legislator, in response to the occurrence of these fatal events, brings with it the risk of compriming the defense of rights, freedoms and guarantees for patamares considerably more claws than those that were only fired before their occurrence. This pain should be used at least as an example to motivate us today to make reasonable, proportionate and appropriate changes that are justified and that, if not done, they will run the risk of being hit by the reactive frenzym triggered by an event that no one can guarantee will not happen. In fact, the circumstances of these amendments are delayed, in a European context where they have already been made in all the other countries with which we share the Union, can only provoke the fear that Portugal may, someday, be considered, in the context of the European fight against terrorism, a kind of weaker or less attached link and, as such, paradoxically, more appealing. Since the criminal proceedings, as is known, the follow-up of legally pre-ordained acts carried out by persons legally authorized in order to practice a crime and its legal consequences, which begins with the criminal notice, the collection of information within its scope is always done in a context previously demarcated by its object, only collecting information in the context of the investigation of a specific fact and in relation to specific subjects considered to be suspects. That is not what we are talking about when we talk about the role of information services in preventing terrorism. The information collection and processing functions of the SIRP, because they are preventive, do not focus on an investigative activity of committed or implemented crimes. The first line of defence of the rule of law against terrorism must be placed on this footing, and it is on this footing that, like our fellow Europeans, we must put in place. In other words, the activity of the information services is to collect information aimed at preventing the occurrence of planned and punished facts in criminal law, in particular in matters which, by their nature, may be considered against the pillars of the rule of law. from there it can be maintained that its activity is not only logically anterior but related to that of the criminal process. It is therefore not advised to continue to ignore that the demands for preventing phenomena of disproportionate harm, such as terrorism, pose unheard of challenges to States and to which they need to be able to respond properly. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the proposal submitted by the Government, the guarantee of the reservation of the judge is fulfilled to the exact extent that the control of acts affecting fundamental rights is not committed to any administrative entity but to the Supreme Court itself. Here, then, there will be an unequivocal judicialization of access to traffic data, to more operated through very qualified judges, as by definition are the presidents of the criminal sections of the Supreme Court, likewise also resulting in now clear and explicit procedure of access, duration and elimination of the collected data. In this way, appropriate guarantees against the well-founded fear of any arbitrary or disproportionate interventions by the public authorities are enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u121	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u122	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that it is on behalf of the democratic rule of law, and never at the expense of its sacrifice, that the success of the fight against terrorism will be achievable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u123	Mr António Filipe has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u124	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Secretary of State and Mrs. Members: In this speech, I would like to refer specifically to the issue, which is also under discussion, of metadata. I will remove it from the context of the security package that the CDS presented here, which is thus a kind of internal competition for ideas on security-populist measures, but these are ideas that are not good, they are not even original. [[CDS-PP protests.]] So let us focus on the question, which also brings us here, of the metadata.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u125	There's no North Korea?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u126	Mr Telmo Correia has a fascination with North Korea, but I believe that is not what we are discussing here. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Mr Telmo Correia is fascinated by certain parts of the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u127	Me? Oh, my God! Won't you be the honourable Member? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u128	We are concerned, in fact, with security in Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u129	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u130	... and we are actually concerned about what you should worry about, that it was to find good legal solutions to problems that affect us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u132	...to us and the Portuguese. That is our purpose; it is not the purpose of your security package, but it is ours. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u133	What are we talking about? Mr. Fernando Negrão said that we are not talking about telephone listening. We're not. We're talking about exactly metadata, i.e. traffic data, communications. We're talking about location data. But precisely the Constitutional Court has pronounced itself on this. There is a long-signed case-law in Portugal which equates the metadata regime with the exact system of telephone listening. This is clear from our constitutional jurisprudence. Well, what's also unequivocal? The Article of the Constitution relating to this matter, Article 34. , paragraph 4, which explicitly mentions the following: « All interference by public authorities in correspondence, telecommunications and other means of communication is prohibited, except as provided for in the criminal proceedings law », I repeat, in criminal proceedings!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u134	Like I spoke!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u135	We recognize that there are substantial differences between the text which has been approved in the previous legislation, that which is proposed by the CDS and that which the Government here proposes to us. It's not the same in terms of the procedure. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] There is in the Government's bill a degree of judicialization of this matter which did not exist in the previous text and which does not exist in the CDS proposal. You have to recognize that. In fact, care must be taken in the way the Government seeks to circumscribe this matter, its proportionality, the requirements of adequacy that are made to the target. We recognize that there is this difference, but we must also acknowledge that we are not in the criminal process. This, for us, is a constitutionally undisturbed issue that makes it impossible for us to subscribe to and approve the proposal that the Government brings here, which allows the information services to have access to data whose access to the Constitution prohibits outside the criminal proceedings. And if you turn around, it's not within the criminal process that we're talking about. Moreover, this is not the fundamental issue, but we must not forget that we are talking about information services whose monitoring mechanisms have not proved credibility so far, and we have many cases to prove it. In fact, we have a fundamental disagreement with the monitoring model in Portugal. It is not at stake the suitability of the people who make up the successive supervisory boards, but it is at stake...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u136	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u137	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, what is at stake is the model, to which we do not recognize credibility, which adds that we are repeatedly faced with situations of impasse in the very designation of the members of the supervisory board, which means that, in certain temporary periods, there is not even supervision. Therefore, these are issues that, when we discuss this matter, we cannot in any way ignore. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u138	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention, so that Mr Correia closes this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS, I would say that in good time we brought these matters to debate in plenary; in good time we will be able to move forward; in good time the government also presented its proposal on metadata; and in good time we will take a positive step here. So first of all, and on behalf of the CDS, I am pleased that we have marked this debate. I want to say, secondly, that the debate, in my view, was enriching and was about a matter and reality that actually exists. The terrorist threat is not a fiction, the terrorist threat exists, it is studied, it is in our reports, it has been manifested in Europe. There is no kind of fiction here and, therefore, we have an obligation to respond and improve security mechanisms. Some of you. Members say, in relation to the airports, it is already there. Well, as far as I know, the government is studying and trying to improve, with delay or without delay, and it is good for you to do so. Someone wants to be more supportive than the government itself, which is absolutely laughable. With regard to proximity, I hope that we all agree, if not all — because some will always seek to be isolated — I hope that there will be a large majority. On the question of metadata, I mean that I understand Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, the thoughts he makes and the concerns he brings. however, I want to say that the model of the CDS is not so different from the model of the government, because they are both based on the Supreme Court, they are both based on a set of judges, although the set of judges is different, the model of the government is, in other matters, more detailed, we refer to the regulation of matters which the government now presents. however, our expectation is that both can be approved...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u141	... and if you can get to a common text, which solves this matter once and for all. Some of you. Members, particularly the Left Block and the PCP, insist that, even with this proposal from the CDS and with this proposal from the Government, we are still in the field of unconstitutionality. Well, I'd say that we have a serious problem, but it's with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u142	With the Constitution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u143	The problem is that the Constitution has been forgotten for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u144	If we can't solve this matter and we're always with a problem of unconstitutionality... [[Protests by BE MP Joana Mortágua and PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Mrs Deputy and Mr Deputy, I have shown once again and again the map of democratic Europe, based on freedoms, based on the values of freedom and democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u145	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u146	Who has access to metadata? All of them! Everyone who's the green color. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Switzerland is orange, because it is already changing the law, which will have been changed recently. Portugal is the only country that is red. We are the only country with such an "advanced" constitution that does not allow to solve this problem, which does not allow our information services to be provided by this essential and fundamental instrument to protect the safety of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u148	We are the only European country. So we will actually have a problem here to solve. Mr José Manuel Pureza, who is an expert in these matters of rights, freedoms and guarantees and whose ability and intelligence of perception do not question, says: « Well, the bill concerning the loss of Portuguese nationality is redundant ». Mr José Manuel Pureza, for example, I remember the debate we had many years ago — I think that he was not yet here at the time, he was later — about another crime: female genital mutilation. Do you remember? What was said at the time? It's redundant, it's already in the law, you mean.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u149	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u150	Years after this proposal from the CDS — which, by chance, I presented — we all reached a consensus...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u151	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u152	... and unanimously approved a proposal for this crime to be more specific. I accept that the question of people who have been involved in terrorism and have committed crimes cannot enter the country is already in the overall forecast of the law. But, as you say, for example, the opinion of the Advocates' Order, it is good to put it first, making the question of terrorism specific and clear. So there is no obstacle and this project, in fact, is combined with the other one. There were those who didn't understand, but you certainly do. This project is combined with the other. Why? Let me give you an example. What is this project about? It is, for example, a citizen who acquires Syrian nationality, in addition to Portuguese nationality, which we admit even was that of origin. This citizen goes to Syria, enrolls in Daesh...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u153	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u154	I will finish, Mr. President. I just want to conclude this reasoning. As I was saying, this citizen is going to fight Syria on behalf of Daesh. Don't you think he should lose Portuguese nationality? Don't you think he should be prevented from returning to Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u155	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u156	It's the only way we have to protect ourselves. This is the idea of the project. He says, as he also says about the metadata, « Good, but the PJ ( Judicial Police ) is already listening ». Mr. Deputy, the PJ is listening to crimes. If the PJ is going to listen to a crime, the crime has happened. That is to say, we already have tens or hundreds of deaths from the terrorist attack and then Mr. Deputies is resting because the PJ can listen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u157	All right! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u158	Don't solve the problem, Mr. José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u159	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u160	We clearly say that there is no freedom without security, security guarantees freedom Our speech is, and it will always be the same. There are those who don't understand it, there are those who don't understand it, even, but our speech is always the same. We have neither hatred nor fear, what we have to guarantee is the safety of the Portuguese! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u161	Mrs. Members, the joint discussion of the projects of lein.o 478 / XIII ( 2 ) is closed. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 479 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 480 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) ( generally ) of draft resolutions 778 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 779 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 852 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD ) and Bill No 79 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( generally ). We move on to the next point that consists of discussion of the projects of lein.o 77 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Creates the status of the professional dancer of the National Dance Company and the dance school of the National Dance Company ( PCP ), 324 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Social security scheme, professional reintegration and occupational accident insurance for dancers of the National Dance Company ( BE ), 518 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the specific conditions for the provision of work, social protection and professional conversion of the dancer of the National Dance Company ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 519 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the scheme for the repair of damage caused by occupational dancers' accidents ( The Greens ). To present Bill No. 77 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome the dancers of the National Dance Company who are attending this Plenary Session. I begin by saying that I do not know exactly how many times the PCP has already presented and scheduled for the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic a proposal for the status of the dancer in the National Dance Company. But we will present - as many times as necessary - because the proposal of the CFP and the demands of the dancers of the National Dance Company are entirely fair. Proposals do not lose sense of opportunity, despite repetition. on the contrary, every day that passes without approval, this status is urgent: because every day that passes the problems are getting worse as they continue without response; because there are dancers put aside in the world of dance by age; because there are injured dancers without any support, subject to treatments and unable to dance and, at the same time, covered by a regime that is exactly the same as an office worker, without coverage in the situations of fragility that are inherent in the exercise of this profession and the physical requirement that puts everyone who choose to surrender their life to the execution of the dance and who, finally, will excuse me to state, taking into account the little time I have available; because the generational flow and aesthetics of the National Dance Company are lost if there is not also a continuity of their workers, the dancers and a school; because classical dance, in Portugal, has the most secure and solid representative. It is fair to fight and urgent a retirement scheme, a vocational reintegration scheme, a professional conversion scheme, a decent and appropriate work insurance for the characteristics of the profession and a school that also preserves the aesthetic characteristics of the National Dance Company and continues to deepen them. Mrs. Members, especially PS, PSD and CDS-PP... In addition, PSD and CDS have now been reminded that there is a status of the dancer of the National Dance Company to resolve.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u163	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u164	It is unfortunate that during the past four years, while they have sugared all Portuguese workers, they have not remembered this,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... when they could, even with a parliamentary majority, propose something to solve a problem, although your project leaves out some problems. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, the PSD and the CDS — and I mean everyone — because they are systematically those who block solutions in the framework of parliamentary work to respond to the status of the dancer of the National Dance Company —, of little value to use dance and art as an ornament in the lapel and to applaud the dancers in the Camõ Theatre if here, where they can solve the problem, vote against the proposals of the PCP, as they have done so far. The possibility of solving a problem and giving legal dignity to the career of the dancers of the National Dance Company, who have long claimed it and who, increasingly and under conditions, deserve it, is once again being put in place. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u165	To present Bill No. 324 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) Mr Jorge Campos has the floor of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also begin to greet the dancers of the National Dance Company. I want to tell you that, after 40 years of the foundation of the National Dance Company, there is not yet a social security and professional reintegration regime for your dancers and their dancers, or, on the other hand, there is Law No. 4/2008, which, in practice, only made the situation worse. All attempts to find the right solutions have shrunk with various impediments, almost always determined for financial reasons and, if true, for lack of political will of the successive protections. The Left Block, for its part, presented more than a dozen legislative initiatives. We are pleased to note that some of your proposals, previously rejected, are now included in the project of the previous majority.Welcome to the club! [[Laughter from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Our bill aims to respond to what manifestly constitutes a gross injustice situation. If not, we see: the dancers and the professional dancers, whether in the classical dance, whether in the contemporary dance, are subject to a situation of tremendous physical and psychological wear. The hourly training load is over 40 hours a week. Only in this way can they achieve the patamares that are required to an art in which they converge the physical effort, the highest concentration, the refined musical sensitivity and a huge creativity, and of course, of great love and great passion. in fact, the formation of a dancer begins very early, conditions his academic and social life. It exposes it to injuries, sometimes serious. If this happens, it only benefits from the uniform employment accident insurance scheme, which is absolutely inadequate to a rapid wear profession and, when the career is completed, it does not normally have any other type of training than that of a dancer. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the dancers start their careers very early and can only retire quite late. The dancers of the Paris Opera, for example, retire to 42.5 years. The company is the youngest and perhaps that is why it is also the most important in the world. It is therefore incomprehensible that the dancers of the National Dance Company, a reference company, do not have a special social security scheme, professional reintegration, as well as a work accident insurance compatible with the specificity of their artistic activity. The left block bill aims to fill these gaps and make a contribution to dignify the dancer profession. Among other points, it establishes the conditions for the allocation of pensions, taking into account international routes, a special scheme for access to teaching and entry to higher education and a legal scheme for occupational accident insurance for classical or contemporary dance professionals. The current situation did not prestigious the public service of culture in Portugal. In 2006, the National Dance Company was considered one of the top 10 in the world, several of its dancers were awarded and continue to have international reputation. But in maintaining the present state of affairs, all that heritage may be called into question. It is therefore time to find solutions, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and in this sense, we are available to reach the broadest possible consensus with all parliamentary banks. Dancers cannot continue to be treated as disposable professionals! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u167	To present Bill No. 518 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) the PSD and CDS-PP have the floor of Mrs Joana Barata Lopes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As it was clear from the previous interventions, this situation has already happened several times to the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u169	And how did you vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u170	...but not exactly the way it was explained here. The reason why the matter has not been resolved was not always because the proposals have not been approved. In fact, I invite you to think about history and you will see that some of them have simply expired. I know it's easier to accuse the previous majority, either at what time of the Legislature it is, but either the Left Block, or the Socialist Party, in previous proposals, have had the feasibility, in general, of their projects to be able to discuss in working group. So this is where we left. I said—and good! — the Member of the Left Bloc who is interested in objectively resolving what is clearly a situation that constitutes a mismatch between the current rules and the reality of the classical or contemporary dancer's profession. But it is also not true that we have only appeared now, because, even if we had only participated in the debate, it is known, because in this sense the work in the previous legislature, which either by the previous government, or by the old parliamentary majority, was made an effort...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u171	Is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u172	...to find a proposal that would respond to those who, in our view, set the greatest challenges for the dancers of the National Dance Company.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u173	Where is that in your bill? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u174	The honourable Member may or may not agree. But you have no problem: you now have the opportunity to vote on our bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u175	Mrs. Deputy's kidding!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u176	As we are talking about now, we are going to see how the Member of the Portuguese Communist Party, who so willing to see a proposal from the CDS and PSD, will vote on the proposal that we present here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u177	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u178	To make it clear, it is clear that this situation typifies a rapid wear activity that results in obvious physical limitations and prevents these dancers from continuing their career. It is also clear that current legislation does not reflect this specificity. Each of us can decide in what way we address, or not, this inadequacy that constitutes a social injustice, but, for the PSD, more important than demagogy and what it means to make, eventually, the most attractive, demagogic titles, it is important to ensure, in the solutions that it has to present as a political agent, the sustainability of its proposals, the resolution of situations of specificity and injustice and to end the unacceptable waste of human capital that, to this day, we have verified in the dancers of the National Dance Company. Thus, we present this bill, because in social democracy it is this way that we see the problem. We do not abdicate what we consider sustainability, but we do not allow that to be an excuse not to solve the situations of injustice, as we provide for, for example, the special regime of pre-reform. It is clear that what we propose here must be complemented by mechanisms for facilitating professional transition. There is no doubt that suitable mechanisms must be established for career development, adapting the conditions of their exercise to their complex specificities, particularly in the workplace, accidents at work, training and medical care. This is what this project configures, worrying about sustainability, while — because it is possible to do both things — solves a problem of injustice. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u179	To present Bill No. 519 / XIII ( 2. ( a) The Greens have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the dancers of the National Dance Company and tell the Members and the Members. Members that The Greens represent a bill establishing a system for repairing damage caused by occupational dancers' work accidents. For what I have already heard and, eventually, for what I will still be able to hear during this debate, I believe that, given the current composition of the Assembly of the Republic, we will most likely be able to take a resolution on this issue definitively, so that there is the will of all parliamentary groups to do so. But take into account the political will that is currently being manifested and that there are no obstacles, in the specialty or elsewhere, to make the project impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u181	Who are you talking to? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u182	I'm talking to everyone, Mrs. Member, but mainly PSD, CDS and PS. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the professional dancers of the classical and contemporary dance are framed, with regard to accidents at work, in a general regime on equal circumstances with other workers whose work does not have the same level of physical requirement as those of the dancers. The dancer's profession assumes a very high level of physical requirement, requiring constant and demanding training. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, high-competitive athletes have a specific work-related accident scheme, due to the recognition of the particularity of the effort and the necessary physical skills. However, given the requirement of professional dancer activity, it must be recognised, for reasons of justice, that it is not understandable that these professionals do not have a specific work accident scheme, as I said, for example, high-competitive athletes. The occupational accident insurance scheme to which the dancers are currently subjected is clearly inadequate of the nature and characteristics of their profession and, in fact, is targeted for professional activities where a high level of physical and sporting activity is not involved. In addition, professional dancers have a long and painful history of labor claims. When, in the exercise of your activity, a dancer suffers an injury is attended by a non-specialized clinician. However, it is very important that these workers, given the characteristics of the typical injuries in this profession, should be followed, in those circumstances, by sports medicine specialists. Otherwise, what is unfortunately happening today, which translates into a recurrent commitment to the recovery of the injured, often leading to serious consequences, with immediate but also future implications for the dancer concerned, and, how often, by the accumulation of inadequate treatment of specific injuries of intense physical activity, they end up being victims of serious situations that are incapacitating for their professional activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are facing a problem that all parliamentary groups see. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we raise our sleeves to work and find a solution for dignity and the most basic justice for professional dancers in Portugal. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u183	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the dancers of the National Dance Company here and saying that it is a fact that the subject we are dealing with today is under recurring discussion for almost 15 years and it is really time to give it an end and a solution. Throughout this long process, even too long, the CDS has always been defending special protection on the part of the state for the dancers of the National Dance Company, although it recognizes that we have not always had the political capacity to achieve it. this time, the conditions for doing so seem to be met. The PSD and the CDS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens have presented bills that, although different, demonstrate consensus on several essential aspects and even the PS, which did not present a project, should have a coherent position—we want to believe — with the initiative presented in the past legislature. The draft law brought today by PSD and CDS, together, because it results from a work initiated in the previous government, aims to answer the most important questions for the dancers of the National Dance Company : a special reform regime and a professional transition regime that really corresponds to the needs of their profession; support for the unemployment situation; medical assistance and protection in the case of work accidents and temporary or permanent disability arising from this situation; measures for the requalification and professional conversion of the dancer, including training, access to higher education and equivalence for access to teaching in the teaching system; creation of a three-year period for the professional transition by expiry of the contract of work; and, moreover, a transitional fund for the financing of the same period. There is also in the PSD and CDS bill the recognition that there are issues that have to be determined by the government in its implementation, which is why it refers to specific regulations. As for the other bills, and now not having time to discuss in detail all the differences, I just appreciate their big lines. in this sense, the legislative initiative of the Greens Ecological Party is more restrictive in its scope than all others; the legislative initiative of the CFP is reinventing a dance school, when it seems to us that it is essential to guarantee the dancers future options and freedom in this choice; the legislative initiative of the Bloc insists on and commits the government with the universalization of the scope to all dancers, in addition to the National Dance Company, which raises several issues repeatedly raised; and two legislative initiatives are missing, that of the PS and the Government, which, having been in office almost two years, and two ministers later, seems to have no urgency.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u186	The legislative initiatives on the table are complex and offer different solutions. So we still have questions to discuss and decide on, we expect, within committee. But today is a day when we no longer repeat ourselves and I hope that we will be able to move forward and finally decide. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u187	For an intervention, Mrs Sofia Araújo of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u188	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome the dancers present in the galleries. We thank the parliamentary groups who today brought to the debate the draft laws on the status of the dancers, a subject to which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is quite sensitive and has already put forward initiatives on this subject in the past. The view of the teaching of dance in Portugal is today very intense and rising, inasmuch as state education and particular education have achieved, at its various levels, absolutely remarkable results that allow our students and young professionals to have a systemic national and international recognition. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security have been developing a joint work on this subject, which, of course, includes the analysis of the successive legislative initiatives presented more recently around the status of the dancer. in this context, the Secretary of State of Culture will again receive, tomorrow, the Committee of Workers of the National Dance Company. Although there is no opposition by the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, in principle to the rules governing the career of dancer of the National Dance Company, it should be noted that the matters contained in the PCP bill are not limited to its scope, except for matters relating to the special social security regime, for which it has already been referred to. On other matters, such as coverage of work accidents and all risks of personal accidents under an insurance contract provided for in Article 9. the, and conversion and professional reintegration provided for in Articles 18. the following point should be made clear that the specific regime which the diploma intends to adopt will involve, among other aspects, an increase of costs for the public employer, in this case for the Opart (Artistic Production Agency, EPE ), so the adoption decision will be the Ministry of Culture, which protects the Opart and ultimately the Ministry of Finance, in order to ensure a positive outcome. In view of the above and taking into account that the draft laws in question reflect an increase in significant charges for Opart, it is considered not to be prudent for immediate approval without being previously assured the best way to meet these charges. I stress that in the past Parliamentary Parliamentary Group of the PS presented an initiative in a number of these areas which is available to resume, hoping that consensus can be reached. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u189	With regard to parliamentary groups that have not submitted initiatives, there is no record of new requests for intervention, and I will therefore give the floor to the honourable Members. Members to request it, subscribers to the initiatives under consideration. in this case, I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Joana Barata Lopes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I confess that, after hearing the speech of the Member of the Socialist Party, I have had some doubts. What the honourable Member said was that, in the previous legislature, the PS proposed, regardless of the costs that the proposal could have for the State, and that now, which is in the Government, this proposal, which served when it was in the opposition, is no longer useful. Well, look, Mrs. Member, we in the Social Democratic Party did exactly the opposite. While we were in the government, we prepared a proposal that we now put forward when we are in opposition. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] This is strictly true. So much so that both the workers and all those involved in the community and the National Dance Company knew our proposal, in fact, as we saw the criticisms that were left here in relation to the disagreements we had. It's remarkable what Mrs. Sofia Araújo came here to say! [[Protests by PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u191	Madam Member, I know you started your speech a short time ago, but I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u192	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas is very indignant. When she was a minister, she used this phrase: "Falsity and artificialism are in the autism of the analyses concerned itself, because as regards planning and long-term strategy for culture, the path is being made and will bear fruit. The status of the dancer is ready to be presented in 2010 ». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to the dancers present here that, on our part, we are here to discuss, improve what needs to be improved and, not abdicating our principles, correct this social injustice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u193	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u194	Mr President, Mrs Sofia Araújo: I was also in conflict with your statement. I read the PS proposal, which expired, presented in the previous legislation and verified that it was even more comprehensive than what we are discussing today, because the object extended to all professional, classic or contemporary dancer activity. [[PS protests.]] From where, I suppose the charge was even greater. however, at that time, no one had this concern, being us under the financial assistance regime. So I don't understand the limitation that now prevents you from doing what they seemed to have always said would make sense to do. In addition, I found his speech interesting as a government spokesperson, but I did not understand what the PS proposal was. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u195	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u196	Mr President, Member of the Socialist Party: I didn't even want to believe what I was hearing and even thought that eventually I could be hearing it wrong. [[PSD laughter.]] I would like to say the following: I hope that it will not be the Socialist Party that makes a solution impossible for professional dancers who have been waiting for this solution for many and many years. If the Socialist Party did not present an initiative today it was because it understood not to present it. We cannot find obstacles in all legislatures. I am talking this way because I did an interpretation of your intervention and, frankly, I am even making an effort not to do this interpretation. But Mrs. Deputy still has 27 seconds to intervene...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u197	There's still time!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u198	...and, perhaps, you will have to clarify the House, the Portuguese and the dancers, in particular, what is happening and what the Socialist Party wants exactly. It is not possible to arrive here today and to say that the proposals, particularly those of the Greens, will fall — and I hope I have misinterpreted them! — because they cost money, but one day the Socialist Party will resume its initiative and expect all parliamentary groups to join it. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u199	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u200	Mrs. Deputy, you can't be! A clarification must be given to the House and the dancers in particular. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u201	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a bit of a dilemma, for which I would like your attention and cooperation. It has been the floor of the Bureau, according to me, that in the final speeches, after debate, there are no inscriptions of the Members who are not self-subscribers, the word is returned, having time, only to the undersigned Members of the initiative. however, the PS deputy has just been asked directly and the PS parliamentary group, as seen in the electronic framework, still has time. So, and there's no objection...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u202	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u203	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the parties that have subscribed to initiatives and that still have time, these, of course, must close the debate. But in the face of this call from the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I believe it is of the most fundamental justice that the Socialist Party can still sign up and clarify the House, as it has been asked to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u205	from a procedural point of view, thank you for your cooperation, Mr. I believe that the Socialist Party expressed a desire to intervene. I therefore give the floor to Mrs Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u206	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has full readiness to discuss this matter. I didn't say we weren't available. We want these legislative initiatives to be brought down to committee, so that we can discuss...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u207	Ah, ready!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u208	I didn't say we weren't available. They misread. Therefore, we are available to discuss and find the best and fairest possible way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u209	They're shaking the problem under the rug!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u210	I do not wish Mrs Ana Rita Bessa to speak, to close the debate, Mr Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are witnessing a dubious intervention by the Socialist Party. But, Madam Member of the Socialist Party, let us be clear: these diplomas must be brought down to committee, they must give rise to a decree of the Assembly of the Republic and a law of the Republic to satisfy the fair and urgent demands of the dancers of the National Dance Company. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] And there are no budgetary excuses, because the budget comes next and we must make the budget necessary to respond to those who are the legitimate rights of these workers. What is not acceptable is that the honourable Member suggests that these costs cannot be borne on the Opart and the Ministry of Culture and that they should fall on the workers who are paying them with their own lives and well-being. It is not acceptable for this situation to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u212	Put the vote to the vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u213	Finally, Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, from the PCP, are all available to welcome the proposals that are now taken as yours and that have also come, many of them, from diplomas that the PCP has been presenting for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u214	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u215	I cannot finish my speech without saying this: it is right in the face that the PSD and the CDS are much better off from the government than within the government. In good time, the Portuguese took you out of there! [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u216	Mrs. Members, concluded the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 77 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ), 324 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ), 518 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 519 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( The Greens ), we turn to petition No 206 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Respecting teachers, improving their working conditions and valuing their career status (FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers) together with draft resolutions 547 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce teachers at the corresponding level of the teaching career ( CDS-PP ), 870 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repositioning in the career of teachers who entered the frameworks — regulation of the status of the teaching career ( BE) and 873/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to enhance teachers and educators and improve their working conditions ( CFP ). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to highlight several aspects. From the CDS bench was the first alert to the problem dealt with in today's draft resolutions, i.e. the replacement of the linked teachers at the corresponding level of the teaching career and their wage index. It was last November 15 during the discussion of the State budget. Now, with the same theme, we also appreciate the draft resolutions of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. at that time, we stressed the high value of EUR 40 million, which would entail this repositioning and referred to the injustice resulting from this same replacement, in the face of teachers who had their frozen career almost a decade ago, by decision taken by the PS government in 2010. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u218	In fact, the salary status of teachers, in general, has been evolving in the process of decline and degradation for many years. The teachers carry the effects of socialist bankruptcy, reflecting also the injustice of a less-validity and social consideration of teaching activity. It is true that, somehow, the exercise of this profession, whose members provide a fundamental public service, has been losing the social prestige that is due it by the community, which little value it. The petition, today also in appreciation, whose authors I greet, clearly and unequivocally refers to the need to respect teachers, improve their working conditions and value their status. It has already been repeatedly recognized in this House by the CDS that teachers provide a demanding and complex public service, resulting from the continued overlap of political mandates and views on their mission and functions. They have, for a long time, been taking on ever-growing roles and actions of responsibility which, in fact, go far beyond what determines their status. Little or nothing has been done for the teaching career to regain prestige and public respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u219	There must be a lot of cana!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u220	These are recent educational policies and decisions that do not listen to teachers, that diminish their experience and that do not present them with public opinion as key actors and partners. It adds a manifest lack of knowledge on the part of the community in general of what it implies and means the teaching profession, the specificities of its working conditions, a long and very exhausting career, physically and emotionally. This draft resolution of the CDS, dated 18 November, in which the Government is urged to apply a transitional regime, is aimed at correcting the incomprehensible and unacceptable situation in which those teachers are found. from there it is recommended again to take legislative measures which, gradually and until the defrosting of public service careers — provided for in the Programme of this Government, by 2018 — allow teachers to be repositioned at the appropriate salary level, depending on their time of service, and without neglecting the situation of the previously linked teachers. Finally, Mr President, saying the following: we must admit, with great regret, that 'the winds do not blow' in favour of teachers... [[PCP protests.]] ... and that, as always, is and continues to be concerned the quality and appreciation of education and, inherently, the future of the country itself. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u221	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet all the teachers and all the teachers present, the more than 20,000 teachers who have signed this petition and all the teachers and all the teachers in this country, as well as the FenPROF. Teachers are a central part in education: not only are education specialists within the school, as they have as their profession to fulfil a constitutional right, which is the right of all children and all people in this country to education. The Constitution and the Basic Law of the Education System recognize this role and even tell them that they have to have a wage and career corresponding to their responsibility not only professional but also social and cultural. This social role of teachers is then repeated in the Basic Law, when it says that the Community perspective of the school has to promote the setting of teachers to the places where they exercise, to the schools where they are. A society that bets on education and that also says bet on public school cannot mistreat its teachers and teachers, who entrusts the education of their children, their grandchildren and their children. But that's what happened. Our schools today are filled by exhausted, frustrated and poorly paid teachers—and the phrase is not mine—but that, despite this, they maintain an enormous resistance capacity. We didn't get here one day. We have gone through a long decade of devaluation of teachers, of attack on their rights, with two main protagonists—Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues and Nuno Crato. These protagonists removed the teachers from the democratic management of schools to devalue them ; they humiliated them with the PACC ( Knowledge and Capacity Assessment Test ) ; they sowed injustice with the School Contracting Scholarship ( ECB ) ; they invaded their work with goals, exams and external controls because they wanted to tell the country that teachers did not know how to educate and evaluate their students; they increased their workload with tasks that are not pedagogical and thus devalued their pedagogical role by creating confusion between the educational component and non-principles; they frozen their wages; they frozen their lives; and, above all, made the rule precarious for thousands and thousands of teachers. Today, there are thousands and thousands of teachers hired in schools, who are not intermittent, are there every day, they are there every year. They are not temporary, they are not transient; they are precarious. They teach every year. It's just that every year, in a different school, in a different city, in a different district. For these teachers, there is no safety at work and, like for any worker, where there is no safety at work, there is fear, there is insecurity and there is instability. And without this security, there is no pedagogical autonomy, there is no professional independence. Therefore, the problems of teachers are the problems of education and the problems of education are the problems of the country. When FENPROF tells us that it is necessary to reorganize the hours of work of teachers, what it is telling us is that teachers need quality time with students.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u223	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u224	I will finish, Mr. President. When FENPROF tells us that a retirement scheme is needed, what you are telling us is that it is a serious problem that a third of the teachers are reforming in the next 10 years. When he says that a plan to combat precariousness is needed, what he is saying is that the government must fulfil the commitment it has made, regulate all state precariousness and that the norm-work is a provocation to the teachers hired.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u225	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u226	I will finish, Mr. President. When he says teachers have the right to career, he says nothing more than justice. It is also in the name of justice that the Left Block brings here today a project on the repositioning of teachers hired in the career. I greet you! I greet your fight! The teachers' struggle does good to the country and does good to education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u227	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming FENPROF and the teachers present here, in addition to the thousands of teachers who have subscribed to this petition—Respecting teachers, improving their working conditions and valuing their career status—as well as the struggle these teachers have waged to strengthen their rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u230	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the presentation of this draft resolution, the CFP follows the claims of teachers and educators and reiterates its position: the professional valorization of teachers and educators, guaranteeing their rights and strengthening their working conditions, is a unique condition for the valorization of public school. The appreciation of teachers and educators implies: combating precariousness, ensuring binding; correctly defining the educational, non-formal and individual component; establishing adequate retirement conditions, considering the specificity of teaching function and the situation of long-term careers; defrosting careers. The various political options taken by successive governments, and severely sharpened in the latest PSD/CDS government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u231	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u232	... represented a ferocious attack on teachers' rights and working conditions and an immense disrespect for their career. in fact, no teacher forgets the precariousness of his work link, because he sees every year his life suspended from a placement; no teacher forgets the cut of wages and pensions; no teacher forgets the deregulation to which his working time is subject; no teacher forgets the freezing of his careers; no teacher forgets the disappointment, the fatigue, the exhaustion of those who waits for a retirement that takes time to arrive. For the CFP, the very high levels of precariousness among teachers require a firm, effective and urgent fight. There are teachers with contracts 5, 10, 15, 20 and more years ago, when they are responding to permanent needs. We defend that each permanent job corresponds to an effective link, and we have repeatedly presented the right solution: the elimination of the work standard and the opening of vacancies to the national competition, by a graduated list, according to the needs of the school manifested for three consecutive years. The hours of work of teachers lack clarification as to the content to be integrated into each component — educational, non-formal and individual — and it is imperative that the Government clarify this situation and the regulation. Teachers who reduce the educational component by seniority must benefit from the reduction regime of this component, as provided for in the statute of the teaching career. We also consider that it is absolutely necessary that the career of teachers be frozen and that the government fulfils this commitment already in 2018. Mrs. Members, the teaching body of schools is aged and exhausted, so its long-term contribution career should be valued and the specificities of teaching work for retirement purposes should be considered. An adequate and fair retirement scheme for all should be defined and specific retirement schemes for teachers and educators should be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u233	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u234	I'm done now, Mr. President. Today, as in the past, the CFP stands alongside teachers and educators, alongside a quality public school, a fundamental pillar of the democratic regime. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u235	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs. Germana Rocha, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, first of all, the more than 20,000 signatories to this petition, which aims to promote respect for teachers, improve their working conditions and enhance their career status. To dignify the teaching class is, first of all, to recognize the primary role it plays and the contribution it makes in the education of our children, as well as the wear and demand that it requires the exercise of such noble function. however, this dignity cannot be achieved either with populism, with easy words, or with false promises, but, yes, with work, seriousness, strategy and, above all, with decision-making ability. The members of the majority who support the current government talk a lot about the fight against precariousness. But you know what the outcome of your fight against precariousness is, sir. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u237	It's the integration of precariouss!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u238	There are more than 5016 long-term contracts in the education sector, and this is a given objective, official and unforgettable, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u239	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u240	Your fight against precariousness goes through the current definition of questionable and discriminatory criteria in relation to the binding of teachers, placing them in an increasingly difficult and unequal situation between themselves,... [[PCP protests.]] ... and, moreover, by excluding teachers from basic and secondary education of the Special Regularization Program of the Precarial Links in Public Administration. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Members, respect for teachers is not compatible with the absence of solutions for the lack of technical and auxiliary staff in educational establishments, in particular special education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u241	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u242	... where we now have more students, less technicians, less hours and less operational assistants;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u243	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u244	It's impressive, they can't defend the teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u245	... does not sympathize with the lack of urgent work in schools due to the lowest public investment in which there is memory; does not sympathize with the carrying out of measurement tests without even ensuring the materials necessary for their realization;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u246	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u247	... and it certainly does not happen to find out more than one year ago that the question of the special pension scheme for teachers is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and not the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u249	So what do I have to say to you? Members of the Left Block and the PCP are not presenting any draft resolutions and hypocrisy...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u251	...and that, once and for all, they assume their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u252	Exactly. All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u253	It is more than when you solve the problems, as is your obligation, and to stop pushing them with the belly, in an attempt to excuse the inoperability of this parliamentary majority, who, after a year and a half of governance, in addition to having failed to solve anything at all, has been able to contribute to the precariousness and lack of conditions in the education sector. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u254	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u255	Mr President, first of all, I would also like, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, to greet the thousands of teachers who have signed the petition that we are now discussing here in the Assembly of the Republic, and to leave a very particular greeting to FenPROF, author of this petition. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who wants to dignify the public school needs to dignify the teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u256	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u257	E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's even overwhelming to hear the PSD and CDS conversation now, when in the past they've always tried to splinter the public school...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u259	...and did so much, but so much, by disrespecting teachers in Portugal,... [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u260	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u261	...and so it was in the most diverse sectors. This has already been said, and I will repeat: in fact, you really fit in with the opposition, because you are beginning to improve your speech — although, in terms of practical proposals, the thing is not very good. But here we are to propose and pull the government where it should go, on behalf of the dignity of the teachers and the public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u263	Let's see where that ends!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u264	You have no doubts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Now let me remind you that you have made the biggest dismissal of teachers that there is memory and have invited teachers to emigrate! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to remember this! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The teachers have taken all the negative measures that you have implemented in Portugal, with all austerity! Teachers know what it is to experience a direct policy of PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u265	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u266	Is that to show service to the central committee? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u267	Therefore, you can adorn your speech as well as you understand, but the solution does not, of course, pass through these benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u269	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens converge with the one who is the objective of this petition. In fact, there are a number of issues that imply political will and determination to solve problems. One of these matters is precisely that of precariousness. The number of hired teachers that the Government has intended to put in the frameworks, in the perspective of the Greens—we have already said so— represents an important but insufficient step, because there are many teachers who continue outside.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u270	Go from there... you've increased the precariousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u271	There are many teachers who continue to contract, although they are responding to permanent needs in schools, and this is a matter that deserves a more accelerated resolution, in the perspective of the Greens. On the other hand, there is a set of subjects related to teachers' time. There is an interpretative confusion as to what is an educational component and what is a non-formal component. Also in the name of the dignity of teachers and their ability to work in conditions, this issue has to be resolved. There is another issue I would like to address. There is a lot of talk here about the aging of the teaching body and the need for renewal, but, as a teacher has repeatedly said, a leader of the Greens Ecological Party, this renewal — as little as it has ever existed — has been on the account of teachers going home with exhaustion, on account of the long-term casualties, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. In fact, we're talking about a exhausting profession, whether we want it or not. I believe that all parliamentary groups recognize this, but one thing is to recognize in words, another thing is to act in harmony with the problems that exist and to provide them with a resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u272	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u273	And in this sense, the Greens consider it very fair to claim that the teachers here do, in view of this wear.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u274	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u275	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. This claim is that there is recognition that, at the end of 36 years of work and discounts, these teachers, these professionals, deserve a pension scheme under dignified conditions and without cuts that remove this dignity while these professionals have given to a pillar of the development of the country, which is precisely that of education. by public school, we have to respond to these situations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u276	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u277	Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I greet the petitioners. Respecting teachers, improving their working conditions and valuing their career status are the subjects requested and, in addition to this petition, we appreciate draft resolutions on the same subjects. The 21st Government has assumed education and training as — I quote — « fundamental foundations for the valorisation of people, the development of the country and the construction of a more cohesive and progressive society ». It is for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party that the construction of a successful, democratic and inclusive school has underlying and depends, among other conditions, on professionally recognized and socially valued teachers. It is in this context that we cannot ignore the valuable measures of teachers implemented by the current government over a year and a half of governance,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u278	... since the ECB's extinction at the end of the CAPC and wage cuts, from the strengthening of teachers' free continuous training to redefinition of recruitment rules, with the opening of a greater number of vacancies vis-à-vis previous years, integrated into a comprehensive strategy to combat precariousness for teachers as well. Teachers are the first to be covered by an extraordinary scheme, through the extraordinary competition, which will allow the linkage of more than 3000 teachers, in addition to the external competition with the improvement of the norm-work and the internal competition, which will allow the access of a greater number of teachers to the tables. This means competitions with greater justice, with more fairness in the management of human resources, directed towards combating precariousness and focused on promoting teaching stability. But there are other measures, already implemented or in progress, that we should not forget: the reduction of the number of students per class, the appreciation of the continuous evaluation, the free distribution of school textbooks to all students of 1. the public network cycle — which will benefit about 400 000 students in September — the support of social action at school to study visits, the strengthening of the supply and quality of school meals, are measures that guarantee more equity, better learning and, consequently, better conditions for the exercise of teaching function.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u280	In addition to the positive measures already taken in the direction of the subjects under consideration, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recognizes that there has to be an evaluative and valuable work that is an inducer of solutions that allow for a convergence of educational policies focused on learning and on school success and that leads to a growing appreciation of teachers. The mission of teachers is central to a school that we all advocate inclusive and where success in school is a goal of equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u281	I would like to conclude by thanking the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u282	I shall now conclude, Mr President. We all recognize that, during this scarce one and a half years of governance, some problems considered important have already been solved and others are being resolved. We recognize that there is still much to be done. There are issues that, because of their complexity, need to be dealt with with with the necessary attention and evaluation, in particular those relating to teaching retirement. It is unquestionable that investing in the improvement of the teaching condition as a factor in the recognition, recognition and dignity of teachers is one of the objectives of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party and the Government. Like what has marked this time of governance, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will continue to engage in a serious and constructive dialogue involving all those involved in the educational process,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u283	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u284	... so that the fundamental issues we all long to see resolved can be dealt with. For this reason, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group reiterates its commitment to teachers, in defense of their professional valorization and their social dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u285	She was very tolerant of the Bureau, Mrs. Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of petition No 206 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), together with draft resolutions Nos 547, 870 and 873/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), I shall give the floor to Mr Pedro Alves to report on a legislative initiative which he has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u286	Mr. President and Mr. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 872 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures promoting health tourism ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-17.u287	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary session, Thursday, which will start at 3 p.m. First, there will be a period for political declarations. Secondly, we will appreciate petition No 68 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — They request that the 8th of July be recognised as the National Day of Mutualism ( UMP — Union of Portuguese Mutualities ) together with draft resolution No 859 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates on 8 July as the National Day of Mutualism ( PS ). Third and last place, we will appreciate petition No 96 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — They request the repeal of Decree-Law No 133 / 2013 of 3 October approving the new legal regime of the public business sector ( Federation of Transport and Communications Unions ), together with Bill No 303 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reinforces rights and income and ensures the right to collective bargaining in the business public sector by repealing the burdensome rules of Decree-Law No 133 / 2013 of 3 October ( PCP ), in general, and draft resolution No 865 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends an amendment to the legal regime of the business public sector which respects the right to collective bargaining and a new orientation for the management of the business public sector ( BE ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 9 minutes.]]
