ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. of the first point of our agenda is the general discussion of the proposals of lein. 65 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to logging and re-arborrowing actions, 66 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the national land bank and land mobilization fund 67 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates tax benefits for forest management entities by amending the Statute for Tax Benefits and the Rules of Procedure for Registration and Notary, 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the National Forest Defense System against Fires and 69 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a simplified cadastral information system and the projects of lein.o 464 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs a legal regime for logging, re-arboring or afforestation ( BE) and 500 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the public agricultural land bank ( BE ). To open the debate, Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is here today to present the set of diplomas which, in due course, brought to the Assembly of the Republic — five diplomas which are part of a 12 set, by which we intend to give what we have agreed to call the first step towards a profound reform of the forest. This is a work that was produced by an inter-ministerial group, composed of eight ministers, who worked for about two to three months. During the past few months, the Government has met the Council of Ministers on an extraordinary basis twice to discuss and adopt measures on this subject. We promoted a broad public debate in Portuguese society for three months, through which it was possible to obtain about 600 contributions, a significant part of which was incorporated into the final version of the diplomas. And during the public discussion period, we had written contributions both from meetings promoted throughout the country, at the initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Authorities and multiple associations of forest producers and agricultural organisations. I therefore believe that we are in a position — as soon as Parliament decides on this latter package of diplomas — to fully implement forest reform. As I said, these are 12 diplomas, two of which are already in force and in full execution, one of them aimed at improving the situation of forest slags, increasing the annual allocation for its operation, which allowed us to hire, from June onwards, 20 new team of slags, and we will re-equire by October 44 other teams, to think about it already next year. And a pilot plan for Peneda-Gerês National Park is also being implemented. On the other hand, the Council of Ministers approved, in definitive terms, and sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation five other diplomas. A first diploma is on the forest planning, in which the powers of the municipalities are basically strengthened, incorporating the guidelines of the PROF (regional forestry planning plans) in the PDM (municipal management plans), and, from the moment that this incorporation takes place, the municipalities have important competences in the field of monitoring and changes in planting and replanting. A second diploma awaiting promulgation has to do with forest management bodies, through which it is sought, giving priority to cooperatives of forest producers, assigning management and providing a set of incentives and incentives to organizations that can professionally manage the forest. A third diploma aims to simplify the establishment of forest intervention zones, lowering the minimum area from 750 ha to 500 ha, setting a maximum limit of 20 000 ha, lowering the minimum number of joiners from 50 to 25 and the number of buildings from a minimum of 100 to a minimum of 50. It also awaits the enactment of another diploma, which defines the conditions for granting the right to grant electricity from biomass plants up to a total of 60 MW. It was also finally adopted by the Government of a resolution of the Council of Ministers defining rules, actions and financial means for a five-year horizon for the use of controlled fire, at an amount close to EUR 10 million. in the Assembly are the five diplomas they know, which today are discussed together with two others of the Block of Left, to whom I welcome the presentation of these bills. I am sure that they will be able to find points of agreement that will help to improve the diplomas that the Government has presented on the same subject. These diplomas relate to the logging and re-arboring regime, in which the most relevant issues deal with the discipline of eucalyptus planting and the political orientation that aims to increase the raw material without increasing the area occupied by this species. in the diploma on forest defense against fire, would highlight the question of fuel cleaning around the building. New rules and new dates are created, clarifying definitions and deleting other omissions. We also bring the diploma on the simplified registration. It creates a simplified register through a single balcony, this balcony will be physical and virtual and will integrate all cadastral information dispersed throughout the administration, and through this operation, which will be free for those interested until 31 December 2019, we will allow not only to delimit private property as, for the exclusion of parties, to identify the property without known owner, that will be placed in the land bank. The Land Bank is the subject of another diploma which is under discussion and which aims to make available, with regard to agricultural land, land for, preferably, young farmers with training and another hierarchy of priorities and, with regard to forest land, preferably forestry co-operatives, which will benefit from a set of tax incentives, which are also covered by the fifth diploma we bring here. This fifth diploma aims to allocate exemptions and reductions within IRS (tax on income of natural persons), IRC (tax on income of legal persons) and IMT (municipal tax on onerous property transmissions) to the partners of forest management entities and to all those who sell or lease forest land to be integrated into these management units. In short, Mr. President and Mr. Members, this is the synthetic content of these proposals. The Government calls for consensus. We are available, within committee, to make concessions and to receive the contributions that the various banks consider necessary, so that this reform can last beyond a legislature, because this is certainly the work of more than a generation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u3	Mr. Minister will have to make a very complex time management, because there are six Mrs. registered members, BE, PS, PS, PCP, CDS-PP, and again PSD, to request clarifications. First of all, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u4	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Members. Members of the Government here present and, of course, also to welcome the Government for the initiatives and for the merit of bringing this plenary, of the Assembly of the Republic, a matter which is usually very furnished, despite the great importance it has both from the economic and environmental point of view and from the social point of view. And therefore the government has had that merit and we must recognise it. As you well know, forest activity is framed by well-developed legislation, some of which, like the law of forest bases, met even a broad consensus here, in the Assembly of the Republic, and was approved unanimously. The same is true, in fact, with Decree-Law No 124/2006 — the famous and well known among us, those who devote themselves more to this matter, by the « 124 », is so well known — which establishes important measures within the framework of the National Fire Defense System, which is also a well developed document and is already about 11 years old. It is true that, despite this good legislative basis, after all these years, the forest remains disorderly. And it is not a problem that comes from this government, it is not a problem that comes only from the previous government or from the previous one, it is a problem that has come from many and many years ago. Although there are good laws, the forest continues to have problems which, in a repeated way, eventually lead to fires, catastrophes and even economic under-utilization. As we know, and the Minister also knows, much of the provisions of Decree-Law No 124/2006 — such as those relating to the protection of the forest against fires — have been applied for a long time since they are either little or not fully applied. And there must be a reason for this, there must be an explanation for this. There's any contradiction here. Therefore, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State and members of the Government, because they are experienced technicians and know-how in these areas, explain to us, in your opinion, the reason for, after all these years, after consensuss that have been established on basic legislation for forest policy, there are no significant steps forward, as regards forest planning, diversification of forest mosaic, the reoccupation of the fields, because desertification continues. Finally, there is a set of problems that persist and that, repeatedly, leads to the catastrophes that we normally know each summer. Mr. Minister, this is the question I want to leave. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u5	Mr Nuno Serra has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u6	Mr President, Minister, these diplomas that the Government has just presented do not constitute a forest reform. It is not a reform of a generation, not even a decade, but a face to the forest, because it removes competitiveness and productivity. But they also face citizens, owners, investors, forest associations and even government-supported parties. Why? Because everyone made suggestions, they all made contributions and the Minister despised everything and all, disregarding these contributions, did not make any change in substance in the documents submitted. But it is also a challenge to the more than 400 000 owners, who are prevented from being more competitive, from being able to make their land profitable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u8	And why, Minister? Why? Because he preferred to give in to the Green Party rather than allow more investment for the sector. But they are also a challenge to low-density territories, which will increase inequalities towards the coast. And why, Minister? Because it allows to transfer areas of eucalyptus from less productive areas of the interior to more productive lands on the coast, motivating the abandonment of these lands and deserting the interior. They are, yes, a challenge to the national economy, which will continue to increase forest imports, which are already around EUR 200 million / year, because Mr. Minister prefers to feed an ideological prejudice than an industry that employs 2 % of the active population and is worth more than 3 % of GDP (gross domestic product ). [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u9	They are, yes, Mr Minister, a challenge to knowledge and science, because the measures presented disregard all forest knowledge to the detriment of retrograde prejudice. Mr. Minister, there is enough propaganda to pretend that he wants consensus on a forest policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u11	This pseudo-reform was made from backs turned to the forest sector. It was made against the owners, it does not value the properties, nor does it guarantee the sustainability of forest production. Mr Minister, it is time to assume your responsibilities. The Minister will be responsible for prohibiting new eucalyptus plantations, for supporting the role of forest associations, for limiting the investment and growth of this important sector and for impoverishing the rural world. And I am now calling on Mr President of the Republic to ensure that this important sector for Portugal cannot be destroyed with these laws, that there is a real consensus, as the President of the Republic has appealed. But, Mr Minister, I conclude by asking you the following question: in the midst of this preconceived drift, will forest land with more than 50 ha or not be re-evaluated by the IMI (municipal property tax) which the Socialist Party voted in Budget? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u12	Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the process of reform of the forest sector, which today serves another stage in this House, is a good example of this government's ability to solve issues, problems and challenges that should have been overcome for decades. contrary to what the PSD says, the five bills we are discussing today have already incorporated the mark of civic participation, the critical contribution of the authorities, the academic and scientific community, the organizations of the sector and the citizens. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u14	Of course, there will always be someone who thinks that this reform is beyond expectations, who did not ideally combine the factor x with y and who did not change the aspect z. It is not new, but also nobody had the vesity to say, Mr Nuno Serra, that these diplomas were illustrious representatives of perfection. So from today on, I repeat to everyone, the parties represented in this Parliament will also be responsible for improving their expertise. Mrs. Members, in substantial terms, it is fair to say that this reform has discussed the main structural issues of this sector, which are essential for the future of the country, and which has emphasized the increased efficiency of management, productivity, sustainability, investment and forest certification, demonstrating a modern reading of the importance of forests in the context of climate change and its relationship with renewable energies, bio-economics and civil protection. We would also like to underline the innovations introduced in the National Forest Defense System that aim to strengthen the pillar of structural and operational prevention, including the introduction of the concept of "fire/fuel management" and the strengthening of the powers of the Armed Forces in the area of surveillance and detection. We also highlight, as very positive, the measures provided for in the diplomas relating to tax incentives and simplified registration, which will certainly make a very significant contribution to making forest investment more desirable, staging the trend of forest loss that has occurred in recent decades. Mr Minister, I ask: to what extent will the integration of the reality of the FIFs (forest intervention zone) be possible with forest management entities? Does the Government believe that these two structures are antagonistic, as some argue, or does it believe that they are entities that can, and should, complement each other? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u15	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u16	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, I would like to ask you a few questions regarding statements recently made on forest reform. Mr. Minister said that EUR 700 million was available to be affected by forest policy by 2020. The CFP has always said that the failure of forest policy is linked to the lack of sufficient resources. However, EUR 700 million, in four years, just to give an example, was precisely the value indicated for registering. Question: Where are these 700 million euros going to be sought? Where will these values be applied? What is specifically directed towards forest prevention and planning, the fight against forest fires and the reforestation? Mr Minister, one of the diplomas currently under discussion obliges agricultural tractors to have fire extinguishers in their work in rural areas. Question: Will these types of obligations that the law intends to implement be supported within these values? One last question also concerns statements in this case, I believe, by the Secretary of State of the Forests, on money for the cleaning of state land and co-management baldiums, which would be about EUR 5 million for this year, more specifically EUR 4, EUR 9 million. Question: Why this distinction? Why are the land of the state and the co-management baldiums cleaned out and the baldiums managed by the owners, and these baldiums are important forest owners in our country? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u17	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u18	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, for discussion and approval by this House, the Government submits Bill No 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which aims to amend the National Forest Defense System against Fires. however, in the view of the CDS, there is no realisation of the essential assumptions that would lead to a more responsible debate. One of these assumptions, which seems fundamental to us, is the monitoring of the National Forest Defense Plan against Fires (PNDFCI), which is planned to be carried out by an external entity every two years. However, this monitoring is not taken into account by the Government, in particular in the weighting and justification of the amendments which are now intended to be promoted, and is not in the preambular wording of the legislation, contrary to what would be expected, because we believe that it should be considered as a reference for supporting the proposed changes. The basis of the amendments is not known, therefore, the weighting of the possible merits of the recommended solutions, which cannot fail to be equationd and scrutinized. The National Fire Forest Defense Plan will be in force until 2018. According to the document sent by the Minister's guardianship services, received yesterday by the Working Group on Follow-up to the Forest Fire Theme, which expressly requested it, the Plan has been assessed twice a year as planned. I am not aware of the content of the evaluation of the interim evaluation of the Plan, and it is true that its conclusions would reflect in the examination of this bill, and I should like to ask the Minister the following: why has the monitoring report promoted by the PSD/CDS Government not yet been disclosed in June 2014? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u19	To request clarification, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u20	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, one of the diplomas included in this package, which he calls 'forest reform', aims at the creation of a land bank. After several announcements, which have never been made, the Minister presented this famous diploma. But there is one first thing I have to say to you: the Minister does not hide the disgust he has had, certainly, because he has not been the Minister to create and implement this land bank, which has already allowed the transfer of 6000 ha so far, because indeed, very few amendments will be introduced to the legislation on the land exchange which is currently in force. Mr. Minister, there is already the provision of State land, the private domain of the State, there is already the provision of state land, there is already the provision of land for private individuals and other public entities, there is already the possibility of lease, there is already the possibility of sale and even the possibility of assigning land without a known owner. The Minister will tell us, as he has already told us: 'Well now, with the creation of the land bank, we will have as a automatic surrender of the land of the State for forest use'. Mr Minister, let us read the diploma and see Article 5. the, that there are a number of exceptions that will break this same automation. See: ‘The allocation or use incompatible with the provision in the Land Bank by law, regulation, administrative act, (...) shall be subject to the provision of the Land Bank.’ More: it is enough for the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance and the entities to which the buildings are affected to say, fundamentally, "This land is very important for the continuation of our tasks" so that this automation will end. Mr Minister, let's see that we're going to have a number of cases that will save this alleged automation. Mr Minister, I have a specific question that I would like to ask you. The Minister, in the transfer of land from the State, defines criteria of preference and now something different from those currently provided for in the land exchange. It continues to give preference to young farmers, to landowners, including unemployed and refugees, but eliminates, in particular in non-forest areas, members of producer organisations and producer cooperatives themselves. Mr Minister, at a time when we are effectively stimulating the organization in the sector, why is there such eliminations? Frankly, I don't understand, and this is a wrong sign of what the sector should give, a sector that is rising but has, increasingly, to organize itself. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u21	To reply, Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u22	Mr President, I will answer very theoretically, since time is very little. Mr. Carlos Matias, I agree very much with the diagnosis you have made and that is precisely what you have mentioned and that has happened in the last few years that we want to correct. Because there was no ordination, because there was no supervision, because there was no forest management, for all this, we have presented this set of measures, so that Portugal will not lose the 150 000 ha that it has lost in the last 15 years. It is precisely to change this sad situation that the Government presents this set of solutions. Mr Nuno Serra, I must tell you that I am deeply sorry. I consider the PSD a great party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u23	You've spoken better!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u24	...a responsible party. So the fact that I have not put forward a single proposal — a single one! — and now to ask the Government to assume its responsibilities, Mr President, the PSD must assume responsibility for the situation that led to the Portuguese forest! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u25	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u26	Mr Nuno Serra asked me about the IMI. I would like to tell you that, in the context of the forest package we are discussing, during the next 10 years — I stress, 10 years — there will be no increase in taxes, as far as the real estate contribution is concerned, so that the rustic buildings will be legalized under this legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u27	That's for the PCP to hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u28	Mr Francisco Rocha, what we want is to facilitate and simplify the constitution of new ZIFs and wish that current ZIFs can evolve to forest management entities in order to be able to develop economic activity, buy, sell and create jobs. They have provided invaluable service, but we are convinced that we can go much further. Mr. João Ramos, we have in fact between EUR 600 million and EUR 700 million from the RDP ( Rural Development Programme ) and the Permanent Forest Fund, which, under the 2017 State Budget, has been substantially strengthened. The measures to be financed by these financial means are defined. We will not spend on the register the exorbitant money that has been spent 50 years and that has left half the country to register. We have found a solution, which we can do with the state's administrative machine much faster, and we propose to do, over the next two years, what the country has been doing for decades has been sighing and with substantially lower costs. Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo from the CDS asked me about the evaluation of the National Forest Defense Plan against Fires. I would like to tell you that during the four years that the CDS was in government there was no evaluation. We have done it this year for the first time and we will continue to do it, because it is essential to evaluate to correct errors in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos said that everything the government now wants to do is already done. Mr President, if it is already done, please present the results! He said : « lands from the authorities to the land banks ». How many square meters of the lands of the authorities?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u29	I ask you to conclude, Minister. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u30	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, what I can say is that I have not read the diploma because I cannot distinguish the amendments between this diploma and that which existed and which we now want to improve. So the first consultation I make is: read the diploma, because it will certainly agree with its content. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u31	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u32	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u33	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u34	Is it an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work I am looking at?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u35	It is to request the distribution of a document, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u36	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u37	Mr President, I would like to request the distribution of a copy of the contract which the ICNF ( Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests) signed on 5 June 2014 for the evaluation of the National Forest Protection Plan against Fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u38	It will be done in correspondence. For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decree-law of the previous government establishing the legal regime for logging and re-arboring actions was an open door to the liberalisation of the eucalyptus plantation. There are justified reasons for this understanding in view of the increasing prevalence of eucalyptus in the national forest in continuous stains. The bill we bring here today aims to solve this and other problems. First of all, it establishes a differentiated treatment for endogenous and non-endogenous species, favoring the expansion of the first ones and prohibiting even invasive species. The eucalyptus already has different criteria for the containment of its planting area. The important role of pastoral care in the rural world and forest areas is recognized and limits the growth of shrub and herbaceous vegetation are established in the forest undercover. Here, too, is introduced the concept of forest thickening, forest operation that is being stimulated and that should be appreciated and authorised, or not, indeed, it is considered that all operations in forest settlements should be projected. This procedure seems imperative to us because it is necessary to monitor compliance with the rules on the maximum areas of continuous forest, either in monospecies or with various species, as set out here and in Decree-Law No 124/2006, with the subsequent amendments. We therefore abandon the concept of mere prior communication, we disagree, in fact, that such a concept can be applied on an even wider scale than the current one, as the bill proposes. However, attention is paid to the small and very small size of the large majority of the forest plots, establishing for them the need to present a simplified project, with much less bureaucratic requirements: a simple sheet, easy to fill. The municipal chambers recover licensing powers for certain types of operations, powers that had been withdrawn from them. in the remaining cases of forest operations, municipal chambers and CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees) may issue opinions which should be taken into account in the evaluation of projects. however, the opinions of the municipal chambers are even binding in the case of materials poured into their municipal directors plans. Thus, the important role of municipalities in the planning of their rural territory is recognized, but it also addresses the technical limitations that many municipalities still have. Finally, it is necessary to reintroduce all forest actions designed for protected areas and the Natura 2000 Network to comply with the legal requirements. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, policies and robust measures that cost land and forests, will surely soon bring the hundreds of thousands of owners who have left them. Experiences carried out on the ground, in some municipalities in the center of the country, have allowed to identify relatively quickly the owners of approximately 98 % of the properties so far abandoned or without ownership. in the limit, the concept, the idea of land without owner is a myth or close to it, is a wrong idea that may lead to the expropriation of the smaller ones and to the concentration of land for the benefit of the great owners and the great financial and industrial interests that also feed on the forest. In addition to the fact that large economic groups, such as cellulose and paper pulp, can be found in forest management companies and thus, according to the proposed law, will still benefit from generous tax exemptions. It is an unfair path, which harms the smaller ones for the benefit of the larger ones and which, therefore, we cannot accept. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know that it is important to restore the country's agricultural occupation to create jobs, increase production and rejuvenation of the productive tissue, thus opposing the decline cycle in many rural areas and improving the economic indicators of the agri-food sector in our country. It is therefore necessary to counter the difficulty and, in some cases, the impossibility of access to land for new facilities or to expand existing productive units. in this sense, we propose the creation of a public bank of agricultural land managed by the state and intended to facilitate access to land through rural lease, underlining, through rural lease. The land bank, as we conceive it, will have agricultural land of public property belonging to the State or to the authorities, as well as those resulting from the application of the right of preference or public actions, in particular of land-based structures and of parity. in the draft law, which we present, on the land bank is proposed the tax penalty of the rustic buildings or mixed with agricultural fitness in situations of abandonment, unless they integrate the public land bank. thus, an incentive is created for the use of agricultural land and an opportunity is given to owners who do not want to use their land to make them profitable because of their lease. By maintaining the abandonment of certain land after fiscal penalties over three successive years, the managing entity of the land bank may use the figure of the compulsory lease, a constitutionally planned figure. On the other hand, access to land registered in the land bank is given, for example, priority to those who already work such land, or to those who work in contiguous land or to the installation of young farmers. The dynamization of the rural lease will allow agile response to the difficulty in access to land and — it is very important — it promotes access to land without any expropriation of the small owners, to then hand over their land to the great owners. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Bloc presents here, in Parliament, the sovereignty body that has powers in this area, and to the country a legislative package for the forest, the only one that controls the continuous forest spots, which aims to organize producers so that forest planning is, in fact, possible, encouraging land use, protecting small and micro-owners, and which, in addition, requires high environmental standards.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u40	Mr. Deputies, it's been too long. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Left Block brings here and puts to your mind a package of proposals in essential areas for a real reform of the rural area and the forest — and we are the only party that does so — so that, once and for all, you are aware of the concrete reality of the rural world and of the forest and the good laws shift from role to practice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u42	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During a dramatic year of forest fires, the Prime Minister announced a forest reform to halt the loss of 150 000 ha of forest in the last 15 years. It was then that the Government launched what it called "a broad and very consensual debate" and that it incorporated, according to the Minister, about 30 % of the more than 600 contributions received. Today, we are discussing five of the proposed laws that give shape to this profound reform of the Government, on which the CDS raises three previous questions. I wonder if this broad consensus is part of the strong criticisms of the major forest organizations, from left to right, of large and small owners and even of some former PS leaders, such as the former Deputy Miguel Freitas or the current Deputy Ascenso Simões, to some measures. Is it also part of the broad consensus of the three draft laws alternative to those of the Government that the Left Block presents today, or is it another political number that the Left Block here presents of management? Finally, I would like to ask: What are the diplomas in which the contributions received in the context of the public discussion have been incorporated? This is because, Minister, in the diplomas presented here today, we can only see on-the-spot changes, especially in form and not in content. There is an exception, which is in fact the proposal for a simplified registration law, which is much more complete than the original proposal. But we trust that it is the will of the Government to reconcile it with the bill that has been presented here before by the PSD and the CDS on the same subject and that it has had a huge set of hearings in the framework of the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralization, Local Power and Housing to entities of the most diverse areas and which has been generally praised by all. So, what brings us deep into this part of the reform that we are discussing today? First, it brings the revocation—one more—of the land exchange, which in three years managed to provide 670 buildings and 17 000 ha, of which 37 % are already rented or sold. Instead of improving and deepening the model, the Government repeals and creates an alternative. Secondly, it brings the creation of a land mobilization fund to buy land and to make it available to private people in a country where most of the property is private, where the State does not know how to manage its land heritage and where the land market operates freely. Thirdly, it brings a set of tax benefits to those who invest in the forest, which is positive, but which only applies to forest management entities and individual companies or individuals with organised accounting. In view of the fact that 87% of our forest is less than 3 ha, we ask: how many of the 400 000 forest owners will benefit from these exemptions? on the contrary, the proposal that the CDS here presented as a constitution of a forest management account and that the united lefts applied to everyone, even those who had simplified accounting. Fourthly, and lastly, it brings the amendment of the legal regime of trees and reforestation, which is perhaps the worst enemy of a larger and better forest in Portugal because it has been limited to the expansion of the eucalyptus, by pure ideological prejudice, as an exchange currency to guarantee the Government of the united Left, because 85 % of the 150 000 ha of forest that have actually been lost have not been transformed into eucalyptus but, rather, into matte, have actually been abandoned because they are areas that are not productive, and only 26 % of the pine-bravo area has become eucalyptus. Thus, if this proposal is approved, we will be finding that there has been a greater abandonment of the forest area for slaughter, since the owners invest only in activities that are profitable to them, do not invest by decree. On the other hand, RJAAR (the legal regime applicable to logging and reforestation actions) is a bad contribution because it obliges regional forestry planning plans to be transposed into the MDPs, which are instruments for territorial management of completely different scales, because, after the reduction effort from 21 to 7 PROF, we will now have 308 PDM. And it is a poisoned present to the chambers, in the year of autarchic elections, because, as the Minister has already said, with the transfer of this competence will certainly not come to the corresponding monitoring funds. The Minister has already stated that the ICNF does not have any money for supervision and that the authorates will have to comply with the MDPs, because they are not in the process of losing their mandate. In short, this is a set of rough measures, which do not reform and which, unfortunately, will contribute to the increase of the areas of mating, and thus to more fires, and to nothing for the development of the interior of the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u44	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since Portugal is the country of Europe which has lost the most forest area, when the intensive olive tree is gradually occupying the place of the mountain of surrogate and Azinho in the Alentejan landscape and when the fires are plowing in the country, consuming thousands of hectares of forest and threatening people and goods, it becomes clear and evident that something goes wrong in the forest and that there is an urgent change in forest policy. First of all, it is necessary to ensure that it is in the forest itself that the prevention of fires lies and that any change must be based on this fundamental fact. To this end, it is essential that we support policy for the sector in a comprehensive and integrated view of the forest, based on the recognition and appreciation of its multifunctions, particularly at the environmental, climate, social, cultural, landscape and economic level. On the other hand, the recognition of the important economic resource that the forest represents for the country cannot and should not be incompatible with the defence and enhancement of the other functions that the forest performs. What is needed is to break down, at times, policies based on a purely economic, short-term vision, and to benefit exclusively some restricted economic sectors where cells prevail. It was on the basis of these assumptions that, in the new parliamentary framework, the Greens committed themselves to placing on the political agenda the imperative to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus. We knew that it would not be an easy task, not only because this goal required the confrontation with great and powerful interests, but also because of the blackmails and pressures that came immediately to the water tone, but also because of the fragile and economic dependence of the vast majority of small forest producers, who, more than threatened to remain without their land, need support and incentives, which, now, is intended to channel again to those of the custom. Aware that the fight against the liberalisation of the eucalyptus plantation, promoted by the previous government, would not be easy, that there would be many obstacles in the front, some visible and others, yet not so much, The Greens have not ceased to engage and collaborate with the Government in the search for legislative responses and solutions that would hinder the unrestricted eucalyptusization of the country and promote a forest resistant to fires, diversified, sustained in the native and economically profitable species. The path has been taken and this dialogue has come out with proposals and guidelines which, in order to move forward, require political courage. It happens that the amendments introduced anteriorly, and I refer to the RJAAR, lead us to ask: where did the political courage finally remain? More: in a country which urgently needs a national strategy for forestry policy, which assumes, as a starting point, that the forest is fundamental to life, that it performs various functions and that it must be managed sustainably, the government responds with the municipalisation, which has, in turn, been added to the RJAAR. No, the Greens cannot agree, but still the Greens are willing to work in the specialty to improve the proposals that are presented here today by the Government. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u46	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Today we start the legislative process of what the government calls 'forest reform'. This legislative process, contrary to what has been meant, has not generated the consensus they want to find. there is no such consensus on the part of the CFP. The diplomas under discussion and others to be published by decree-law have raised criticisms of different quadrants, including structures of the forest sector. The way in which the former Government began to break the consensus in the Assembly of the Republic, for example, that enabled the adoption of the Basic Law on Forestry Policy (LBPF) is, unfortunately, to be repeated with the absence of consensus in this process. As the CFP has already stated, and I quote, '(...) the measures to enhance the forest must focus on the yield of producers; in the defence of the baldiums and their use and management by the people, with the necessary support; in the preparation of the forest register by investing the means necessary for this task; in the allocation of more public means — human, technical, financial and material — to the structures of the State which intervene in the forest; in the reversal of the relative weight of the soar and pine and native species, in relation to the eucalyptus'. It is the appropriate remuneration of forest activity that stimulates its management and, for this, it is essential to intervene in the value of wood production. Measures to ensure a fair price from wood to production, which cannot go side by side with the confrontation of the interests of the duopoly in the cellulose industry or of the monopoly of the pine agglomerates industry, are fundamental to solving the problems of the forest. For these difficulties there are no solutions in the Government's proposals. This reform, as the projects under discussion prove, can make no reference to important forest owners in the country, such as the buckets. The omission is confirmed in recent declarations that affect forest cleaning funds leaving out the buckets that are not in co-management. Another of the key issues that goes next to the proposals is the need to allocate resources to forest policy, not only financial resources such as strengthening human resources, particularly land human resources and the Ministry's structures. Without financial resources and without people affected by forest policy, the forest problem is not solved. It is not yet defined how the primary network is paid, in particular for compensation for deforested areas. The projects under discussion will have positive aspects, but they do not go to the essential of what the needs of the Portuguese forest are. The project of the government's land bank is essentially a property concentration instrument, which the CFP does not monitor, in addition to the fact that it is not appropriate to have the entire estate of the State automatically integrate the land bank. State lands are the centres of experimentation, the nursery and the repositories of genetic material and this land heritage is affected by the fundamental functions for agricultural activity and for the country. Some attempts to create exceptions do not seem sufficiently explicit and solid. The land bank, proposed by BE, also raises an unacceptable issue that is compulsive lease when there is no activity in the building for three years. The Bill of Treement and Rearborization was expected to impede the law of eucalyptization promoted by the PSD / CDS, in response to the claiming notebook of celluloses. Only eucalyptus matters to PSD and CDS, as it has already been demonstrated here today. in this proposal are also unacceptable the transfer of competence and processing of processes to local authorities and the admission of the transfer of eucalyptus areas of land and marginal areas of low productivity to more fertile land, creating a benefit, dedication and protection to eucalyptus that do not exist for other species. As in different projects, it is worth the opposition of the PCP to the distribution of tax benefits, traditionally accessible to those who have the most and to those who can, or the placing of the Armed Forces in intervention or patrolling actions of the forest. The changes in forestry policy also go through a breakdown with the policies of previous governments, a breakdown for which the CFP is available but which is not reflected in the Government's initiatives today under discussion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u48	Mr Álvaro Batista has signed up to request clarification, but the CFP no longer has time to respond. So, if you understand it, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Álvaro Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u49	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: In 2016, burned in Portugal 160 000 ha. With the coalition of the left in 2016, it burned almost triple of the forest that in 2015 and it is the Ministry of Agriculture itself that says so. And what has this government done, except demagogy? They say they made public sessions and gathered a lot of contributions. We asked: have you lost your contributions? It is that there are no differences between the initial proposals and those presented now. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, besides pantomimes, the government has done nothing! They announced the approval of more than a dozen diplomas, but only five attended the Assembly, most of the reform was lost on the way. If 12 laws are needed for reform, then it can only be a reform « flap blanket », which does not serve the country. It says the Council of Ministers that this is a matter that needs a broad national consensus. We ask the Minister, the PS, the Communist Party and the Bloc : then it was not better to understand what they were going to play with bisco with reform projects? And that we're already going with 5 of the government and 3 of the Block. Please understand! If the government wanted consensus and not propaganda, it had begun to make the understandings at home, within the coalition of the left. And in the farm organizations, there are consensus? Not either! 'We have a forest reform which does not reach the heart of the issue, which is to prevent forest fires' - did the PSD say? It wasn't! « Do not touch what is a scourge in our country, (...) which is the abandonment of lands that become dead». « (...) reform is negative for our country» — did the PSD say? It wasn't! In 2016, it burned more forest, we are in April 2017, it takes a month to start the fire season and what did the government do? Minister, you didn't do anything! He did some shows, some drinks, but nothing concrete! One certainty can be: if people come back to see the forest in a fire pasture, they will be sure that the culprits are this government and the coalition of the left to support it. In 2016, it burned almost triple of the forest that in 2015. This government did nothing to prevent the recurrence of the problem in 2017. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, have you thought about this? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u50	Mr Joaquim Barreto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing bills integrated in forest reform and bills, on the same subject, presented by the Left Block. I would like to congratulate the Government, in particular the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, which defined as one of its political priorities the reform of the forest sector, which will greatly contribute to the enhancement and cohesion of the national territory, particularly of the low density areas of the interior of Portugal, in order to reverse the decline in rural space. The legislative proposals we are discussing today have been submitted by the Government to a long process of public discussion, comprehensive, diversified, inclusive and in-depth which I warmly welcome. An extended consensus is necessary and important in Portuguese society around the forests which have also been translated here in the Assembly of the Republic. The importance of our forests demands it. I welcome the Left Block for providing us with a more plural approach to forest legislation. I also welcome the involvement of all political-party forces that have and will continue to participate, with interest, in this important debate on forests in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State and Mr. Members, the proposed laws that are being debated are included in the three areas of intervention of this reform: ownership of the property, management of the forest management and defence of the forest in the prevention and firefighting aspects. After the main constraints and obstacles of the forest sector have been identified, we are, with these measures, responding to the great needs and challenges of the Portuguese forest. We cannot ignore that 35, 4 % of mainland Portugal's soils have forest fitness and that over the past 15 years we have lost more than 150 000 hectares of forest with an increase of more than 300 000 hectares of forest and pasture as a result of the loss of forest and uncultivated land. On the other hand, although the size and quantity of rustic buildings without or without known owners are not strictly known, it is admitted that the buildings in these conditions can represent around 10 % of the national territory, which will correspond to 1 million hectares of land that are unproductive. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important and fundamental to be aware that the forest sector has a secure future and with great dimension in the country's wealth. It is crucial to invest in trees and re-arboring. We must encourage and promote the cultivation of uncultivated land. We need to change the paradigm, giving priority to forest management and prevention, in order to reduce costs with the fight against forest fires. It is imperative to combat desertification and the depopulation of the interior. The government with these measures, unlike others who preceded it in the country's governance and who did not, nor did they implement, a forest policy for that sector, is acting and building a forest for the future, economically sustainable, environmental and social. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At economic level, we will ensure the profitability of the investments in this sector, increasing the areas with forest and enhancing the activities, industrial base supported in the forest line. At environmental level, with the expansion of forests, we will increase the fixing of carbon dioxide, improve the water cycle and maintain the balance of soils, while promoting ecosustainable products.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u52	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u53	Just a little bit, Mr. President. At social level, we will guarantee people wages and incomes proportional to work done in the forest, with a fair distribution of wealth and with greater use by the communities. We want a sustainable forest that takes into account certified and professional forest management, viewing and assuming forest areas as multiple-use spaces, to attract and motivate the populations that live in them and those that work in them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u54	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u55	... in particular producers, shepherds, hunters, lovers of sport of nature and leisure, as well as technicians, forest engineers and others who will always be the first to preserve, prevent and defend the forest of fires. The government has promised and is fulfilling! The word given is, for us, honest word! The success of forests depends on everyone! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u56	Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD, now speaks for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese forest, its owners and agents in the sector deserve more respect by the current government and by the majority who supports it. More than 400 000 forest owners cannot be seen as criminals. This kind of agrarian reform, which Mr Minister calls 'forest reform', was the way found to hide the calamity that happened last summer. In 2016, the burned area was three times higher than expected in the National Forest Defense Plan against Fires and the fires were -in more than twenty times. All these indicators required a serious assessment of occurrences. If the Government had rigorously analysed the occurrence, it would have found that about 50 % of the burned area was dead and uncultuated. It is therefore important to understand why this is the area that has increased most, to the detriment of the forest, whose areas have decreased year after year. And the reason is simple: lack of forest profitability. The legislative initiatives that are being discussed today are even more conducive to the abandonment of the land. They discourage investment in the forest, they constitute a real aggression to the thousands of small forest owners, who had their only income in the forest. The legislation that the left-wing majority prepares to approve only serves its political and ideological food, marked by prejudices against private property and its owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u58	He was here, but he didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u59	I'd bring the writing cartilage!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u60	Greater calamity than what happened in the summer of 2016 alone these avulsive and meaningless measures, of an anti-economic character and of coping with the organizations of the sector. The danger of fire risk is not diminished before, on the contrary, it will increase, and much, because the abandonment of the forest will be aggravated and the area of mattes and incults will increase. We will see the increase of infestants and of a species clearly stimulated by these measures, which is the flowering species given by the name « acacia ». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u61	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We take this debate as a step forward, a debate which must be focused here in this House of the Republic, and which we take very seriously. In fact, the debates on the left are not like the debates in the previous government, there are no cross-banks here and no cross-forest packages are signed here, there is debate here, and if you are serious, there is no farce.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u63	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u64	Secondly, we are open to continuing this debate, keeping essential points: increasing cluster management; increasing the profitability of the owners, ensuring the possession of their land, especially microparts;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u65	Get on the ground!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u66	... diversifying the forest mosaic, containing the continuous stains that the PSD masters have fed, in particular that of the eucalyptus, which is the alpha and omega of their politics.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u67	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u68	In conclusion, Mr President, we reaffirm our willingness to build good proposals, because for the forest there is no reliable conversation, we must move on to action. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u69	To close the debate, Mr Under-Secretary-General has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Government, the forest is a key area of the strategy of appreciation of the territory, of the medium and long-term action strategy, promoting environmental sustainability, economic competitiveness and the involvement of forest populations and producers. And we therefore value all the benches that seriously consider this to be a debate to look at the future, focused on medium- and long-term strategies that want to combat absenteeism, which want to promote the involvement of populations, the involvement of forest producers, the involvement of the authorities in the defence of forests as economic potential. It is therefore regrettable that the PSD, which has been absent for four years, has had an incendiary debate,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u71	You're wrong, you're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u72	... proving that he only thinks in the woods when he sees the fire in mid-August. That was the unfortunate contribution that the PSD has made to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u73	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u74	The Government has approved a wide range of initiatives, from treery to ownership strategy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u75	of the property regime? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u76	... to enhance the land without known owner, to defend the forest against fire, to promote the management of biomass as a clean mode of energy, valuing the economic potential of the forest. It is unfortunate that the PSD has not noticed that some projects have already been approved by decree-law and all those who constitutionally demand the form of law are today, here, to be discussed. For three months we promoted public debate. The Minister of Agriculture has led more than two dozen meetings throughout the country, listening to all those interested. We collect about a thousand contributions that, as the CDS recognized,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u77	I would ask you to conclude, Minister, because you have far exceeded the time you had at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u78	... contributed to the significant change in all diplomas, in particular, referred to the diploma of the simplified registration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u79	You have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u80	We call on all the banks to make a great commitment to a great national consensus on this matter, so that this happens from the « fire », from the « piromania », to action, to the development around the forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u81	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 65, 66, 67, 68 and 69 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and projects of lein.o 464 and 500 / XIII ( 2. ( a). Before we begin the second item on the agenda, the general debate on the proposal for a law No 63 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the European decision to investigate criminal matters by transposing Directive 2014 / 41 / EU, we will take a brief pause to change the composition of the government bench and my replacement in the chair of the Bureau. [[Pause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]] Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as announced by Mr. President, Ferro Rodrigues, will generally start the debate of Bill No 63 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the European Criminal Investigation Decision by transposing Directive 2014 / 41 / EU. In order to present the legislative initiative, the Minister for Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No 63 / XIII ( 2 ) ( a ) transposes into the Portuguese legal order Directive 2014 / 41 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April establishing a comprehensive system for obtaining evidence, thus creating the European Criminal Investigation Decision (ED). The European Research Decision constitutes an instrument for mutual recognition of decisions made in the European area and is a judicial decision issued or validated by a judicial authority of a Member State — State of issue — to be implemented in another Member State — State of implementation — one or more specific measures of investigation, with a view to obtaining evidence or transmitting evidence already in the possession of the competent authorities of the executing State. The proposed law therefore lays down the legal regime for issuing, transmitting, recognising and implementing an IED, in compliance with the requirements of the Directive. The transposition of the Directive does not imply a change in the means of obtaining proof at the internal level, affecting only the formal requirements for implementing applications for judicial cooperation in national territory for evidence issued by other Member States and for issuing requests for judicial cooperation by the Portuguese authorities for evidence in another Member State of the European Union. The draft law shall safeguard, in the context of reasons for non-recognition or non-implementation, among other reasons, the principle of minimal intervention, principle bis in idem and the protection of fundamental rights as set out in Article 6. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ( TFEU ). As a central authority for assistance in all communications, the Attorney-General of the Republic is provided for. Because the deadline for transposition of this Directive ends in May 2017, the Government requested its assessment to take on an emergency character. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u83	For an intervention, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, of the PS, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u84	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: The step that the Government is proposing today is undoubtedly an important step in combating transnational crime and illegality. As the Government well recalls in the explanatory statement of the proposed law, the European Union is a space for the free movement of persons and goods, where these persons and goods circulate without any border constraints, and this invaluable thing — the freedom of movement of persons and goods, the importance of which, in fact, it is important to preserve and remember at a time when Europe is debating itself with these various circumstances — obviously leads to the risk of being able to prevent the effectiveness of combating transnational crime. And we could hardly find a better illustration for this reality of transnational crime and for the need to fight against what we can do - from the concept densified by the Polish sociologist, recently deceased, Zygmunt Bauman, who told us about liquid modernity. However, net crime is precisely the one that does not contain in national restricted areas, rather, it uses the gaps and cracks of the various national control systems to spray or flow into spaces other than that of the country of origin. It is therefore desirable — and the proposal for a law meets this concern — to create a mechanism in the European area or, strictly speaking, a number of speedy mechanisms for the recognition and enforcement of decisions of a Member State in another Member State. This is the purpose of the Directive that this proposal is intended to transpose, i.e. the creation of a single system for obtaining and transferring evidence by a Member State, the issuing State, into the territory of another Member State, the executing State, and the harmonization of procedural procedures in the Member States. These are the formal requirements that the Minister has just talked about. The aim is therefore to improve efficiency, speed and consistency in the procedures of the various Member States, which is achieved by standardization or formatting the way in which these European research decisions are presented, by filling out forms that are easily understandable by all Member States. Through these IEDs, these European research decisions will operate-CL - exchange of information on bank accounts, interim measures to preserve evidence, temporary transfer of persons detained for research purposes, with the safeguards which Mrs Minister has pointed out very briefly. So in conclusion, tomorrow, with the vote and expected approval of this bill, we will take a decisive step towards the creation of a European global system for obtaining evidence in cross-border criminal proceedings. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u85	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u86	Mr President, Minister for Justice: Cooperation between criminal investigation entities in the European area, provided that scrupulously according to the dictates of a rule of law, may constitute an invaluable instrument. The proposed law now submitted by the Government, transposing to the Portuguese legal order Directive 2014 / 41 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Criminal Investigation Decision, goes so far. First, we point out that this must be a practice guided by mandatory rules, such as the principle of minimum intervention, principle bis in idem, and the general principle of the protection of fundamental rights in all matters and, in particular, in the field of criminal investigation. We also welcome the recognition of the principle of mutual recognition as a framework for the acceptance of European research decisions. Despite this overall positive assessment, there are aspects that we consider important in this bill and that need more precise regulation. Let's raise two that seem more sensitive to us. First of all, we want to express a perplexity with the inclusion in the list of proceedings which may legitimise the issue of a European research decision — and thus allow access to personal databases — of cases instituted by administrative authorities in respect of offences which constitute mere social order, as provided for in Article 5 ( c ). o. Allowing a simple counter-ordination to enable foreign entities to access personal databases is, in our view, a disproportionate forecast, which is contrary to the good principles of the rule of law. Secondly, we believe that the principle of confidentiality, as this proposal had to be, should not be accompanied by any sanctioning provisions for practices that violate it. We are therefore faced with a mere proclaiming statue, but without guarantees of effectiveness. The principles of precaution and proportionality must have a place of undisputed primacy whenever a limitation of constitutionally envisaged fundamental rights is at stake. This is not properly guarded in this proposal, in our view. The Left Block will do everything to make it happen later in the debate in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u87	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u88	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: Starting by complimenting them, I will say that the idea of this Directive dates back to 2009 and research on cross-border criminal matters is a valid and relevant objective, being at this time even more relevant. Basically, what is intended to end the fragmented criminal investigation regime and create a comprehensive system for collecting and obtaining evidence in cross-border criminal proceedings. Basically, this is what we're talking about today. This allows us to address a number of problems that have been making us feel in our country for a long time, and it is good that this problem is indeed circumscribed. Criminal investigation is often hampered by the difficulty of obtaining proof, especially when we are talking about cross-border crime, and often makes it impossible to incriminate and discover the truth. So we understand that it is to greet this step now taken. In fact, media cases such as Madeleine McCann's, for example, could eventually have been avoided, taking into account the problems that have been detected, if we had already managed to have this mechanism operating. This problem has been going on for 10 years, so it is good that this mechanism is moving forward. More, and in an even more pressing way at this time: the time that we find ourselves is difficult, it is a time when we all live on standby by this outside Europe, with fear of terrorism and highly organized crime and which transcends borders. Therefore, this is a matter which should in fact be taken into account and taken into account and should not be politicized.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u90	Moreover, there is an essential point which we find absolutely fundamental and which the Minister has focused on, which is the fulfilment of the three pillars on which the legislative initiative is based. They are: the principle of minimal intervention—because we speak of criminal law, he is, as we know, the last ratio—; the fulfilment of principle bis in idem, i.e. the fulfilment of the principle of not repeating what has already been judged; and the protection of fundamental rights. And this has to be done with the greatest of the cautions. We know that France, Germany and Romania already have this mechanism in place, but it only works on the basis of the principle of mutual recognition. That is why it is good for the other countries to do so too, under the penalty that we will be doing without visible gains and without having the scale that is intended. Mr Minister, what is important right now is that we all know what the judicial operators think about this matter. In our opinion, it is not wrong, it seems to us very well, what is needed is to strengthen this process of caution and guarantees that are absolutely necessary. For that reason, we need to know what judicial operators — those who are going to deal with this issue every day — think about the matter and what contributions they can make to this discussion, in the sense that it is done in an absolutely free way so that everything can run with the necessary guarantees. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u91	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u92	Mr President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members: It is in principle that we consider this proposal for a law to be transposed into a directive on a subject which we deem to be undeniably important. It is known that transnational crime is particularly serious and it is obvious that international judicial cooperation plays a decisive role in the suppression of this type of crime and in the accountability of offenders. This bill does not point to — and well! — for a principle of supranationalisation of criminal investigation, consider -a - and well! — a reduction, which must be inexhaustible, of the sovereignty of States, but, of course, requires broad international cooperation to be effective and to allow, in cases of more complex crime, in particular the one which is most difficult to combat — transnational economic and financial crime — effective cooperation mechanisms can be found. All of us have heard over the years of cases which are archived for lack of international judicial cooperation and it is necessary, in fact, for States to cooperate with each other, with respect to the competences of the judicial authorities—and this is safeguarded by the role conferred on the judicial authorities and, in particular, by the role conferred on the Attorney-General of the Republic under this diploma—to ensure that, in respect of the competences of the judicial authorities of each State, respect for the Constitution and the legal arrangement of each of the States concerned, effective judicial cooperation is promoted so as to enable the impunity of transnational crimes which are very detrimental to fundamental legal values and, often, the economy of the States themselves affected by this type of crime. We therefore welcome this bill. Of course, it would also be very important to have the Portuguese representative's contribution in Eurojust — in fact, we are in a position to promote this hearing in this House in time and with useful effect. We understand that it makes every sense that this transposition of the Directive is made and that Portugal gives a signal that it is available for wider international judicial cooperation in the context of repression of a crime that affects everyone and that it is indeed very serious. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u93	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u94	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: One of the major challenges of modern societies is the fight against international crime. Unfortunately, we have witnessed a number of attacks throughout Europe. at this moment, there is a need for reflection on how to reconcile freedom of movement with security. Mr Minister, globalisation and the free movement of citizens within the European Union require an effective response to transnational criminal activity. The European Union must be able to create a single area of criminal justice. We can only aspire to genuine citizenship if we are able to combat crime and ensure the protection of the rights of victims, suspects and prisoners in the European Union. That is why the PSD considers combating crime and safeguarding the safety of citizens as a priority. That is why the PSD advocates the need for a new approach to criminal investigation in the European Union. That is why the PSD agrees with the content of this initiative. Mr Minister, does the common citizen feel that the Government is concerned about its safety regarding the phenomenon of terrorism? We think it is necessary to increase citizens' confidence in this matter. We need to be more assertive in order to be more effective. For example, in a matter as relevant as the creation of the single point of contact, what has the government done? The Government has been working on this issue for more than a year and Parliament is not yet familiar with its legislative framework. Mr Minister, with this initiative, and in this matter of importance, what does the government do? It transpires, late and late, in a confusing and shaky way, preventing Parliament from having access to mandatory opinions. Madam Minister, we have missed an opportunity to repeal the legal regime that then applies. in this way, how does the Government intend to comply with this promise to revoke 400 diplomas per legislative session, which is contained in the Revoga + measure? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government must do more and better in combating terrorism, when what is at stake is the safety and tranquillity of the citizens. Madam Minister, we cannot give way to the fight against crime and terrorism. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u95	To close this item on our agenda, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has brought a diploma through which it intends to implement a directive in good time and in a perfectly clear manner. I do not believe that there is any doubt to any Member regarding the normative content of the bill and, above all, the timelyness with which the Government has put the initiative. What we bring here, through this bill, is indeed a global system. A comprehensive system which is procedural, because it does not refer to content or interferes, as I have already said, with the means of obtaining proof at national level, but only with the rules on the issue and receipt of requests for judicial cooperation. essentially, what has been done in this process was to gather into a single instrument a set of worthless instruments that existed in this area, namely a Council of Europe convention, a European Union convention, the convention on the transfer of convicted persons and several other instruments which were included here. It consists of the proposed law all but Schengen, basically in the case of Schengen, joint research teams. There is therefore nothing in the legislative initiative under discussion that is less clear. On the other hand, I wanted to say that, in great cooperation with the Attorney-General of the Republic and also with Eurojust, what appears in the bill is a shared work and also attended by judicial operators who have responsibilities in this area. from that I consider it very useful that Parliament also listens to them to know what their performance was on the final outcome of the work presented here today. I was asking the ladies. Members who considered all other instruments fall on 22 May. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u97	Mrs. Members, after discussion, in general, of Bill No 63 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), we move to the third point of the agenda, with the general assessment of Bill No 64 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates the Lophoscopic and photographic judicial identification. In order to present the legislative initiative, the Minister for Justice once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No 64 / XIII ( 2 ) a ) aims to regulate the lophoscopic and photographic judicial identification for investigation and criminal prevention purposes, in particular the central fingerprint file, in order to allow the centralization and sharing of data collected by the various criminal police bodies in the framework of criminal investigation. Through the proposed law, regulation is made of the use of the system of identification of fingerprints, designated in English Automated Fingerprint Identification System ( AFIS ), in which it bases the central lophoscopic data file and allows to compare lophoscopic traces collected in the scenario of a crime, or in objects used in its preparation, with a universe of fingerprints collected directly in people who have been recorded. The Judiciary Police, through the Scientific Police Laboratory ( LPC ), will be the entity responsible for this file as well as for defining and disseminating good practices regarding its use, provisioning and coordination with other criminal police bodies. It is also his responsibility to ensure and monitor the quality of the data entered, in particular with regard to the rectification of inaccuracies, the supply of omissions, and thus to promote the deletion of wrongly recorded elements. This file is handed over and provided by the main criminal police bodies and, of course, it can also be provided with information from criminal information services. It is intended to ensure that either the file itself or the consultations made with it comply with the highest guarantee requirements for personal data, including in the area of processing, security, preservation and access. To this end, it is envisaged, inter alia, to carry out periodic random checks on consultations, whose reports are accessible to the Commission for the Coordination of the Management of Data relating to the Judicial System and the judicial authorities, for the purpose of investigating possible infringements, without prejudice to the obvious competences of the National Data Protection Commission. On the other hand, for the coordination of national criminal investigation and prevention, the Attorney-General shall access the reports issued, monitoring the consultations carried out. The proposal also seeks to respond to the international obligations of the Portuguese State in the field of international police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and, in this dimension, regulates the transmission of dactyloscopic data in the context of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and transnational crime, implementing in the internal order the obligations arising from Council Decision 2008/615 / JHA of 23 June on the deepening of cross-border cooperation, the administrative and technical provisions of which were regulated by Decision 2008/616 / JHA of 23 June.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u99	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u100	Of course, Mr. President. For this purpose, the Judicial Police, through the LPC, is designated as Technical-Scientific Contact Point and will ensure the transmission of lophoscopic data. The international transmission of personal data—and this point is relevant—is subject to the authorization of the competent judicial authority, through international judicial cooperation mechanisms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u101	Mr Fernando Negrão, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Minister for Justice has already briefly explained to us the functioning of this new tool for criminal investigation, whose central novelty is the creation of a central lophoscopic data file, and this instrument is fundamental to Schengen, Europol, and also to an agreement on cross-border police rules between Portugal and Spain, not forgetting the Prüm Agreement, concluded by Portugal and requiring Portugal this and other instruments. But now we're talking about the subject, attractively, of fingerprints. So, with regard to the bill — and I am not going to explain it because the Minister has already done so — I have a few doubts, which I will put forward. First, being the file fed by all criminal police bodies, should they not participate on an equal footing with the judicial police in defining and disseminating practices related to their use? This question seems strange, but it is not, Mrs. Minister. Today, the fight against crime is different from the one that existed 10 years ago. Ten years ago, the information was adjacent to the fight against crime; today, information is central to criminal investigation and, being central, collaboration between criminal police agencies is fundamental. The motivation between criminal police agencies to work together is fundamental to combating crime. Another question, Mrs Minister : management is the responsibility of the judicial police, in coordination with the other criminal police bodies. in the diploma is not defined how this coordination is carried out. Why? Another question concerns the way in which the automated consultation of Lophoscopic data should be carried out in the context of police and judicial cooperation. Why is no mention made to the Single Contact Point provided for in the Prüm Decision, which is fundamental to the articulation of information? What is the reason for the absence of mention of indexation to the Integrated National Criminal Information System through the platform for the exchange of criminal information? Why does the diploma not mention this, and this connection is fundamental for the information circle to be closed and the information needed to combat crime can be obtained? Finally, Mrs Minister, I would like to say that, obviously, all these doubts will be discussed and discussed in the specialty, because what we want is to have a diploma that corresponds to the expectations of those who want to effectively combat crime. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u103	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u104	Mr President, Minister of Justice: The Government has proposed that the transposition of Directive 2014 / 41 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council, which we have discussed at the previous point, be carried out with a regulation of the digital print file for research and criminal prevention purposes, pointing to the Government for a centralization and sharing of the data collected by the various criminal police bodies. However, if the purpose of regulation is correct, there are different elements of the proposal that deserve us some reservations. First, it is proposed that the collection of lophoscopic elements with a view to judicial identification should be made even for persons who are accused of criminal proceedings, convicted of criminal proceedings, impedable to those who have been applied security measure, but also to mere suspects who are not holders of identification documents. We therefore follow the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office for whom it appears potentially conflicting with the general principle of proportionality/excess prohibition, subjecting to the judicial identification of all defendants constituted in criminal proceedings. in the path of the same opinion, the Left Block understands that it would be more balanced to limit the judicial identification through these means only to defendants constituted of criminal offences punishable by imprisonment for more than three years, using the same criterion that is used, for example, to admit the use of intrusive means of criminal investigation such as interceptions of communications. Secondly, the universe of entities with access to the central lophoscopic data file shows too open delimitation, given that, in addition to the entities expressly referred to, access « by the other criminal police bodies» is allowed. However, this provision provides access to a wide range of entities—from ASAE (Economic and Food Safety Authority ) to the Tax Authority, for example—which clearly should not be envisaged for these purposes. A third source of concern is the admission of lophoscopic vestiges, I quote: « In places likely to be found signs of the preparation and / or practice of criminal or related wrongful acts». The vagueness of this precept opens up the possibility, frankly questionable, in our view, of being the target of collecting such traces all kinds of sites, even though the inherent collection of data from whoever it is is indiscriminate. A final note of criticism for the status of file maintenance of samples collected over a period of 15 years, regardless of whether or not there is effective criminal responsibility of the person in question. We do not see the meaning of this long term and would certainly be much more aware that such a period coincided with what is appropriate for the maintenance of references to illegal practice in the criminal register. In short, this is an initiative that we intend to have a number of merits, but we want to leave the expression of our concern with several of the provisions of this proposal, some of which have now been mentioned, and which, as a matter of debate in the field of expertise, will deserve our greatest attention and the presentation of amendments. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u105	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u106	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: The regulation of Lophoscopic and photographic identification — so that we all understand what we are saying, largely and vaguely, we are talking about fingerprints — is of course an important matter that we have to welcome, whose discussion was already delayed. It is important not only to centralize and share the collected data, but also to respond to our international obligations and that we are not yet fulfilling. This is becoming increasingly acute because of the reasons already set out in my previous speech and which I am sorry to repeat, although I can say that one of the reasons has to do with living at a time when everything that can be done in criminal investigation is actually done. Therefore, Mrs Minister, you have our agreement in principle with regard to the legislation that you have presented to us, although this legislation brings some problems that have been identified this afternoon. We understand that some of them could have already been resolved and others could be in the field of specialty. In addition to the questions that have already been raised — and I am not going to repeat myself not to put the Minister on board — there is another central one, which is to know how the link between the judicial police and the other police will be made. We know that police in Portugal have an essential role in criminal investigation, others who also have criminal investigation functions have a more administrative function, and both cannot be treated in the same way. So we need to understand how this joint is going to be made. But other questions have been raised, particularly in the opinions we have already had access to and have been identified recently, which have to do with, for example, subjecting the identification of defendants in any criminal process. I would like to ask whether the Minister does not think that it makes sense what the Supreme Council of the Magistracy says, i.e. that they should be subject to identification only with imprisonment sentences of more than three years. There is another problem that the National Data Protection Commission raises that it seems to us to consider. It relates to the time limit for data retention and also to the quality of data integrity. I would like to know whether the Minister has already taken up this matter and whether there should be any amendment here too. Finally, the Minister, according to which we have been told, this legislation extends the concept of digital printing, so that not only the fingers of the hands but also the palm impressions are considered. I would like to see how this fits in with our domestic law, since that is not what we were doing. I would therefore like to know how you can handle all these questions that I have left you. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u107	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u108	Mr President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members: Today, there is a whole range of new criminal and security realities which imply that the criminal justice system guarantees to research bodies and judicial operators conditions, in terms of technical-scientific evidence, sufficient and sufficient for the discovery of the truth, as well as in the prevention and exercise of criminal action, effectiveness and cooperation. With the proposed law under consideration, the Government takes another step not only in responding to these realities but also in fulfilling the international commitments of the Portuguese State. Moreover, Portugal has been, since 2011, under the 2008 decision, of the Council, as already mentioned here, linked to the deepening of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and cross-border crime. These initiatives are ultimately part of the fulfilment of the acquis of the European Union under the Prüm Agreement, in the context of the exchange of information for the prevention and investigation of criminal offences and the maintenance of public order and security. This digital data base, establishing access between the Member States of the European Union to fingerprint data kept by European partners and imposing, for reasons of efficiency and effectiveness, the regulation of a central lophoscopic data sheet that enables us to respond to this design, is, in my view, part of this commitment. A short time ago, with Bill No. 59 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) a step has been taken in this regard when it came to the transmission of vehicle registration data for the purposes of detection and investigation of criminal offences and it is now necessary to take a step with the regulation of the digital print file for research and criminal prevention purposes in order to allow the centralisation and sharing of the collected data. This bill has responded to the international obligations of the Portuguese State, as I have already mentioned, in the field of international police and judicial cooperation, but I would also like to highlight, in particular, its relevance in the fight against terrorism and transnational crime. As regards the right to information, access to data by its holders and their rectification, the proposal for a law, in our view, guarantees a clear transparency which must govern the functioning of any automated data processing system, seeking to introduce formal control bodies — and I quote the Attorney-General of the Republic and the Supreme Council of the Magistracy — which is welcomed. I conclude by highlighting a point that deserves our full attention: the security of the system, the importance of having the guarantee of a high standard of security and protection that should be conferred on the processing of personal data imposed by Article 35. the Constitution in Article 16. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Articles 7. it's 8. that of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which the bill already shows, but which, we are sure, as a specialist, will not fail to be one of the issues that deserves a special approach. With this bill, one more step is taken in fulfilling the international obligations of the Portuguese State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u109	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u110	Mr President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members: This bill creates, as has already been mentioned in various interventions by different banks, a digital printing database that allows the consultation and identification of suspected crime suspects. The first note we want to leave is this: we consider this instrument as a aid to combating crime — this is the central aspect. Today, of course, the identification of suspects of crime can be facilitated by the creation of this database and, in this sense, it is a help in combating crime, which we could not fail to mention. The diploma then deals with questions that we consider essential: who accesses, how accesses and what control mechanisms are defined in the law, as well as the universe of suspects whose sample is collected. As they are, of course, available to debate in the field of expertise, to debate this same universe, the most important thing is that, in our view, they are the control mechanisms and the means of judicial control that are enshrined in the proposed law, which, in this sense, refers us to some safeguard of the data of the citizens. It also refers the proposed law for the application of national data protection legislation and gives the National Data Protection Commission the possibility of monitoring the database itself, which is a guarantee aspect. We can discuss elsewhere, which is not, if the National Data Protection Commission today has the human resources to meet the many demands placed upon it, but this possibility is objectively enshrined in the diploma, and that satisfies us. It also deals with the proposal for a law on secrecy and the confidential treatment of information by those who consult and establish something which, for us, is a favourable principle and deserves our sympathy, that is, it establishes the Judicial Police as a single point of contact, which naturally satisfies us. We have therefore concluded this intervention with this satisfactory record of the proposed law, Mrs Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u111	To close the debate, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u112	Mr President, I want to leave only two or three notes, because I don't have time available. First, these data are collected for criminal proceedings and access is made only in criminal proceedings. So I don't think there will be the problem of excessive access here. Then, being scientific evidence, it must of course be collected through appropriate scientific means and the placement of the judicial police is precisely aimed at ensuring this, and it is certain that the coordination of the judicial police is done, in particular, through the creation of good practices and the articulation that is made with the other CPOs (criminal police bodies) in relation to training and certification. With regard to the question of deadlines, which has been put here, I believe that it is a reading that may be put forward. It is that the 15-year period exists if another time limit is not set, in particular the legal period, which exists today, for the preservation of criminal proceedings, or for the limitation of the procedure. Therefore, the period of 15 years is not binding, it may be a shorter period if another is the period of preservation of the proceedings. The last note is this: the Directive, transposing Prüm, effectively requires variable resolution palm images. Therefore, the palm images are the result of the Directive's requirement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u113	Mrs. Members, concluded the general discussion of the bill No 64/ XIII ( 2 ). a ), we also generally discuss Bill No. 484 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 5 / 2008 of 12 February 2008 approving the creation of a database of DNA profiles for civil and criminal identification purposes and the first amendment to Law No 40 / 2013 of 25 June approving the Law on the Organization and Operation of the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board ( PSD ). To initiate the debate and present the initiative of the proposing party, the PSD, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To present this legislative initiative of the PSD, we should make a little history to understand its historical justification. In 2008, the database of DNA profiles was created for civil and criminal identification purposes through Law No 5 / 2008. Two years later, in 2010, the first sample was inserted in this database. It took two years to insert the first sample. And, seven years back, we are far from what was predictable at first, and the forecasts made at the beginning were very modest. I myself, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, in the previous legislature, followed this process. And I accompanied, unfortunately, an unfortunate war that took place between the Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences and the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board and that did not help anything about solving this problem to have an effective DNA database to support criminal investigation. Now, this is a fundamental tool for criminal investigation—in fact, I would say it is another fundamental tool for criminal investigation. And we came to a point where we needed to make a quantitative leap in order to be qualitative. In April 2012, the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences itself stated: « The current confidence in the functioning of the database allows acceptable amendments to Law No 5 / 2008 of 12 February to make it less restrictive and more effective ». In other words, the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences concluded that we had to make changes in order to have a database that effectively supports criminal investigation. Of the amendments that we now propose, the following would be highlighted: - it is clear that the courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, with regard to collection, oblige the defendant, convicted of a criminal offence with a specific prison sentence equal to or greater than three years, to provide the DNA sample; - the punishment for a crime of qualified disobedience as a rule for the refusal of convicted persons to collect samples determined in the sentence is determined; - the procedure is simplified, in particular in the insertion of 'problem samples'. The procedures are a huge complexity in the current legislation — and I am not going to go into technical details now, because they are too dense to be able to be perceiveable — and therefore there is also a standard that has been simplified, no longer requiring two decisions, which is what still exists today: one, for the collection of DNA samples, and another, to insert into the profile. These are the fundamental and most important changes this PSD bill intends to introduce. We believe that, with these changes, we can have a better DNA collection system at the service of criminal investigation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u115	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Moreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is the second amendment to Law No 5 / 2008 of 12 February which approves the creation of a database of DNA profiles for civil and criminal identification purposes, and the first amendment to Law No 40 / 2013 of 25 June. Law No 5 / 2008 of 12 February 2008 has been adopted in a context of reform of the criminal investigation and civil identification system and accompanies new research technologies in the field of genetics. This Act allowed the Portuguese legal system to provide an effective and safe set of methods for the identification of missing persons, victims of natural disasters or those responsible for the practice of crimes, ensuring respect for the fundamental rights enshrined and the principles of the Portuguese criminal process and the protection of personal data. The PSD Bill, which amends this Act, refers to the proposal submitted to the Assembly of the Republic by the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board, following the work of an informal group consisting of representatives of the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences, the Scientific Police Laboratory of the Judiciary Police and the Attorney-General of the Republic. The seven years of experience of Law No 5 / 2008, which saw the first profile inserted, as mentioned here in February 2010, and the reflection that was gradually taking place between academics, magistrates, criminal investigation professionals and public entities on various topics related to the use of DNA for criminal investigation purposes, namely how the use of the database evolved, lead us to recognize the need to revisit the legal regime under consideration. The process of building the database is under way, i.e. the process of consolidating its activity will be done, either with regard to the criteria and procedures for the insertion of data, or with regard to the definition of a safe path for its practical sedimentation and case law. Indeed, as the PS pointed out in the presentation of previous reports, jurisprudence—and also doctrine— has not yet drawn a firm path to this and we are aware of the questions and doubts which still lie within, for example, the prohibited methods of proof. This should not prevent us, as legislators, from moving forward in a process of improving and improving legislation that necessarily involves all partners. This will be another opportunity, together with various government initiatives that have entered this Parliament, to recover the time lost in recent years in the implementation of the commitments made internationally under the Prüm agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. The Bureau is waiting for some honourable Member to sign up. [[Pause.]] I am sorry, there has not been a sign or a mistake from the Bureau, but Mrs Vania Dias da Silva will be registered. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u118	Mr. President, I thought you signed me up, but I wasn't sure. So I don't know who the mistake was. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by welcoming the PSD for this initiative not only relevant but also pressing. We are today in a fruitful afternoon in the auxiliary means of criminal investigation — this is one of them and it is important. Mr Fernando Negrão has already done an analysis of those that have been the difficulties experienced over the years and have been several, known and publicized. Now, this bill that the PSD now brings to us, aims to trim them, and seems to us that well. Moreover, it is in line with several recommendations made in this regard, so it has our support. in fact, the DNA profiles inserted at the moment do not reach 8500, in a lifetime of the law of almost nine years, which is very little. For those who wanted to insert about 3000 per year, it is clear that this issue has had problems. And he has had problems not only because there is a lack of awareness of judges, but also often because there is a lack of money to do so. Therefore, these matters must be treated and worked so that this situation does not happen again. Mr Fernando Negrão has already explained what is intended to be done — and we agree with that — and the PS, by the voice of Mrs Isabel Moreira, has just said that, in the field of expertise, I would make some proposals and make a few points which he believes are not so true. My question right now is whether we are actually going to see a consensus in Parliament on this issue and whether the Government and the majority will not do as usual, i.e. if they are not going to say that they are already working on it, that they are going to present their project and that they are going to chum ours. I hope that this will not happen, as has been repeated and successively with a wide range of subjects, especially those relating to the elderly and to births, and that we can all join in approving this initiative, because this is a matter that needs consensus and criminal investigation will be harmed if it does not happen. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u119	Mr António Filipe of the CFP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill makes all the sense and effectively collects a contribution given by the DNA database monitoring board, contained in the report it presented on its activities, therefore, it obviously deserves to be considered. This is a relevant matter, because the DNA profile database actually fell short of what would be expected, even though we consider the way it was formed prudent, especially the fact that it did not go beyond a few points of principle that were raised when it was debated in Parliament. One of these issues related to the inclusion of DNA profiles for the purposes of civil identification, i.e., outside any criminal procedure, which should be voluntary, should not create a cohesion process on citizens in the sense of their DNA profiles be inserted into the database for the purposes of identification. It seemed prudent to us to do so and it seems to us that this principle should not be exceeded. But obviously there is a whole evolution to be made and there is a whole reflection that must continue with regard to the enrichment of the database of DNA profiles, for example, for criminal investigation purposes. Therefore, what is proposed deserves discussion, namely the forecast of a gradation between considering a crime of disobedience the refusal to include the DNA profile when someone is accused of a criminal process and non-cooperation to its inclusion, only providing for this possibility in cases of more serious crimes in which there is a mandatory, coercive inclusion, which dispenses the crime of disobedience. It is worth considering the question of whether there is a justification for this degree and this disparity of criteria. We are perfectly open to this discussion. It seems to us that, in fact, this is a relevant matter, which, in the field of expertise, will need contributions, in particular from the Supervisory Board itself, which has been based on some of these proposals, and also from other judicial operators who have a relevant contribution to make. Therefore, we believe that this PSD initiative is a significant contribution and, despite recognizing the complexity of this matter, we believe that it is indeed worth discussing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u121	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u122	Mr President: The draft law that the PSD brings today is part of a correct finding, that the results of the DNA profile database were far from what was originally planned, and that there is a shortage of results to the small number of profiles that integrate this database. in fact, according to figures made public by the DNA database review board, there were 6601 profiles on this basis at the end of 2015, of which 6444 related to criminal investigation files and only 32 related to files for civil identification. However, from this observation, the PSD is a strategy to revitalize that base: to increase, if possible exponentially, DNA profile records for civil identification purposes. To this end, it uses the project to formulae as diverse as the admission of the collection of reference samples in minors or incapacities, at the request of its legal representatives and with prior validation by the Public Prosecutor, or the admission of the collection of problem samples in unidentified persons, also for the purposes of civil identification, to cover those who cannot do so autonomously or for which there are no sufficient identification elements. If these files are already proving questionable, for example, why does the Public Prosecutor's Office not validate the request of a legal representative of a minor or a disabled person to register his or her DNA profile for the purposes of civil identification? — the PSD project takes another step and enshrines, in a candidly questionable strategy, the freeness of obtaining the DNA profile for those who voluntarily agree to cross their DNA profile for civil identification purposes with the use of the saying for criminal investigation purposes. More: it is up to the bank itself to pay an amount of money, for the cost of inserting the profile into the base, to prevent this automatic crossing between civil identification and criminal investigation. This porosity between civil identification and criminal investigation is something that cannot be accepted in a rule of law and which is, in fact, perverse when it throws on people the stigma that it will only refuse this crossing that has something to hide, certainly. This border crossing between civil identification and criminal investigation is something we see as very negative, because it is at stake something that a rule of law should not allow: an invasion of privacy on the pretext, not even of the effectiveness of the crime-fighting policy, only of the revitalization of an instrument which, because of its own and indisputable importance, should deserve better treatment by this House. The Left-Hand Block will endeavour, in the field of expertise, to verify the corrections that we have mentioned here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u123	For one last speech, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : First of all, I would like to point out how much support we have had from the DNA database monitoring board, which has made reports that are of the greatest importance, particularly for these amendments which the PSD has just tabled. I would also like to stress the importance of the availability of all parliamentary groups to discuss this bill, even with the lingering doubts of the Left Block, which we will obviously discuss in the field of expertise. I would like, essentially, to point out that France has been in a state of emergency since 2015 and that there are constant threats to other countries, so we need effective instruments for criminal investigation, but mainly for criminal prevention. This afternoon we discussed three legislative initiatives, all of which are of the greatest importance, to combat what is threatening us: terrorism and organised crime. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u125	Now you have the floor Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, draft deliberation No 14 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible public and external debt assessment committee ( CFP ), to be voted on in due course.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u127	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 484 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We turn to the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 774 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote and enhance the practice of physical and sporting activity by creating a status of the student sportsman ( PS ) and 799 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a student-sport status, ensuring social and academic rights and valuing sport practice ( BE ). To initiate the debate, Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party today brings to this House a draft resolution which is a clear sign of bet on sport as an essential area for promoting healthy lifestyles and for the overall formation of active and accomplished citizens. This is a relevant theme, since sports physical activity is fundamental to public health, education and the physical and psychological well-being of the human being. If, on the one hand, sports practice enables a strengthening of physical fitness and the prevention of the most varied diseases, it also presents a fundamental aspect of promoting teamwork, establishing interpersonal relationships and overcoming personal and collective objectives. It is in this context that we believe it is essential that sport be part of the integral training of young students, regardless of their vocations or skills. in the same way, we understand that sports practice outside the school premises is important and helps to train the younger citizens of our country. We know well, and that is good news, that in recent years there has been a widespread increase in sports practice in Portugal. Still, there is a considerable percentage of Portuguese, many of them young, who do not practice any sport. But we also know that most of the young people who participate in sports competitions are students and that, in these circumstances, they need all the support in order to reconcile these two aspects of their lives. however, despite the good practices of some higher education institutions, which support and encourage this reconciliation, others do not guarantee young sports students any kind of recognition for their activities. This omission does not ensure conditions for these young people to maintain sports practice, often leading to the need to abdicate it in favor of a successful academic course. It is true that high-performance athletes have already established a set of rights in a specific and uniform regime, but this does not provide any kind of support or recognition for those who are not Olympic athletes or are not among the best in the world or in Europe. It is therefore important that an effective response can be given to those who divide their time between school and sports activity. This matter, although it has already been debated in this House and affecting tens of thousands of young people, remains unlegislative. With this draft resolution, the Socialist Party takes the initiative to propose a set of actions necessary to create a status of the sports student outside the framework of high-income. This statute will make it possible to standardise the minimum content of rights and duties of these students by allowing, for example, the lifting of shortcomings when justified with sports activities or the existence of more favourable regimes within the time limits for conducting assessments, thus avoiding these young people being harmed in their school course by the fact that they practice sports at the federal level or at the university level. We also propose that the existing regulatory framework be lifted in the various higher education institutions, as well as the identification of the number of athletes potentially covered by this statute. Only an effective knowledge of reality and an extended and participated debate, in full respect of university autonomy, listening to the institutions and legitimate student representatives, will enable the creation of a status of the sports student who meets the needs of young Portuguese people. We understand that this will be a fundamental step in valuing sport as a pillar of a balanced society where healthy lifestyles prevail, safeguarding the rights of those who practice it. We therefore want to encourage sport practice and promote its reconciliation with academic life and we have the expectation that this matter will merit a consensus between all political forces seated in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u129	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There is today, in public opinion, a greater concern about sports and health, but it is true that this progressive concern did not always mean direct legislative advances, particularly in matters relating to higher education, sports practice, support and responsibility that the State has in promoting the same sports practice. Higher education today knows thousands of young people who, not being Olympic or professional athletes, maintain a sport practice beyond their normal academic course, which is to value. It is not only to value the fact that they belong to clubs or are part of the tournaments that the institutions or academic associations organize; it is necessary today to respond, from a regulatory point of view, with support and with a new framework of these athletes and these students in the academic environment, which already happens to Olympic athletes but does not happen to these athletes that I have now mentioned, for example. These cases are not few. Sports practice has been increasing in the academic environment, even as the FADU (Academic Federation of University Sports) who is here today and who accompanies this debate, but also of the various academic associations and therefore deserves special attention from the Assembly of the Republic and also from the Government. We follow the concerns and recommendations presented by the Socialist Party here. In the past, here too in this House, we had the opportunity to present other measures to support university sports and in the previous legislature here we had a debate which, in fact, did not at the time find a practical way out for the creation of this same status of the athlete student. It seems to us that this is the appropriate time, together with the Government, with the higher education institutions, with the FADU, with the athletes themselves, to find a way to regulate this practice, to find a balance between sport and academic practice, and this is an issue that deserves not only the attention of all parliamentary groups, but also an open discussion on the part of all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u131	For an intervention, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President of the FADU: The PSD Parliamentary Group is not, nor can it disagree with the proposals put forward by the PS and the Left Block, given that it was in the previous legislature, although the Minister of Education does not have the protection of the area of sport, that the PSD/CDS Government has legislated the measures specific to this matter. however, we must not fail to consider that it is revealing the absence of any initiative by the Minister who protects sport the need of this Parliament to present resolutions recommending that the Government conduct studies, surveys and evaluations in order to create a status of the sports student. The PS and the Left Block did not do the housework and therefore did not know or choose to make a table of the conclusions of the working group on this issue, which had the participation of representatives of five government offices, the Olympic and Paralympic committees of Portugal, the Commission of Olympic Athletes, the Academic Federation of University Sport, the Board of Rectors of Portuguese Universities and the Coordinator Council of Political Higher Institutes. Worse, the Government of the Left also ignored the resolution of the Assembly of Republic No 112 / 2016, following a draft resolution of the PSD, approved unanimously in this Assembly, and here presents a project in which only one of the five points of that resolution speaks. In other words, after the Government for one year does not do anything about this matter at all, the PS and the Block present two diplomas of recommendation to the Government that are no more than a sustainable version of what was discussed a year ago and in which it was presented, voted and approved an appropriate statute for athletes students. Therefore, the PS and the Left Block present weak initiatives in their content, ignoring all the work done in this legislature and also in the previous one, and ignoring the work of higher education institutions, students and the sports system. It was far more important to have the PS Parliamentary Groups and the Left Block pressing your Government to follow up on the proposals and recommendations of the working group and resolution No 112 / 2016 than to pretend that work is being done. I would add that the Government continues to ignore the need for the promotion of dual careers, as well as does not promote or promote an appropriate transition of high school students to higher education in terms of sports practice of school and federal sport. There is more hope of the government in this matter than of a government that has taken up sport as one of its flags. at the end of 17 months of governance action is expected rather than generic recommendations. It's amazing that nothing has yet been done. It is regrettable to see the need for Parliament to re-emphasize recommendations on this subject. in the background, this government and the parties that support it have a lot of speeches, but concrete action is 'zero'! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u133	To intervene, you now have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives being discussed today address a matter that, of course, deserves our attention and our concern: the need felt by many students in higher education to reconcile their academic journey with the sport practice of competition. There is currently a High Competition Athlete Statute — Decree-Law No 125 / 95, which establishes specific measures to support the development of high competition, in order to provide practitioners with the technical and material means necessary to the special requirements of their sports preparation, we recognize the need to also establish measures to enable higher education students to maintain their federal sports practice, even if they are not of high competition, without being adversely affected in their studies. And recognizing this need, we understand that the changes that can be made should involve not only higher education institutions and federations, but also the representative structures of students, including student associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u136	We must not fail to point out in this debate, because it is also worth our concern, as it was at the time and as we pointed out — the breakdown of sports practice at the time of entry and the frequency of higher education. This issue is not disconnected from the Bologna process, which this process meant in terms of obstacles to student rights, such as the right to sport and also is not disconnected from the devaluation over the years of university sport, in particular allowing all higher education students to have the necessary conditions for sports practice. This devaluation is inseparable from the underfinancing of public higher education and, where appropriate, also means less investment in university sports. We also understand that the measures to be taken must take into account the different realities of the sports practice of higher education students. Students who have a high-competitive practice have a sporting reality, a level of demand and a set of needs specific to high-performance sports. Students who, having a federal sports practice, are not of high competition have another level of demand and another set of needs and the answers to be given in this area, of course, must take into account the differences that exist. We do not oppose any of the initiatives under discussion, but we believe that it is a matter that deserves broad reflection, for which we are available, without prejudice to the necessary public policies and responsibility of the State in the constitutional fulfilment of the right to sport, and its social and cultural function must be valued and guaranteed access to its practice in its various dimensions. It is important to ensure, indeed, the conditions of sport participation for all students, but also their cultural participation. The right to sport and the right to culture are constitutional rights, they are rights of all. Sport and cultural participation is a fundamental instrument for harmonious development and for the formation of the individual's integral culture, a path of individual and collective emancipation that the PCP has always defended and will continue to defend. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u137	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate here today, based on the two draft resolutions submitted by the PS and the Block of Left, is part of the discussion of public policy for sport. But the fact that it deals with such a short matter in relation to what is a public sports policy shows well that there has been a lack on the part of this government of promoting this public policy, a public sports policy that favours the competitive framework and the scope of public health promotion. I am referring to a policy that would begin by defining, at the level of school sports, the basis of competitive sport, the basis of a sport practice that, throughout life, promotes social well-being. It is obvious that there is also the university sport, the one who deserved a more relevant wager from this government, whose basis was already worked by the previous government, and which could have been continued. Unfortunately, we still do not know how school sports can be promoted by this government ; how university sports, following school sports, can continue this basis, and how, from a social point of view, we reverse the very negative indicators of sport practice and its contribution, so that the population has, at the level of public health and at the level of social welfare, the level equivalent, for example, to that of the European average. by the Government, this initiative is still lacking. Perhaps that is why the PS and the Left Block parliamentary groups are now showing up trying to give help, but it is a very short help and it is beyond what the government needed. The government needs more help and you have helped little. Nevertheless, we give relevance to the subject of the status of the student-sportsman. We give relevance to what the FADU has done — and I respect its representatives in the galleries — in this matter. We will not fail to follow this concern, but we clearly say that it is little for a sports policy promoted by a majority who has been completely absent since the debate and is very little about the role of Parliament, because it would be much more interesting to do this debate in a logic of bills, in which we could make a wider discussion and that it was not a mere logic of recommendation to a government which, in the field of sports policy, has proved to be very unrecommendable. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u139	Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u140	Mr President, I would just like to respond to a few points which have been made during the debate. We agree with Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP. In fact, there are various constraints today, even as far as Bologna is concerned, and how students today view their space, temporary until, in higher education, they need to be reviewed, for sure, and we will also participate in this debate. Mrs. Mr João Almeida, from the CDS, and Mr Joel Sá, from the PSD, if we are here today discussing draft resolutions in which recommendations are made to the Government for the creation of the status of the student-sportsman is precisely because the previous Government has not solved this problem. If he had, we could even be discussing amendments to that same status. The truth is that this statute does not exist and you have been in government for four years and you have done nothing about it. It is also not true that the Left Block will come now — only now — to present draft recommendations to the Government on this matter. As Mr. Joel Sá pointed out — and well — last year the draft resolution on university sports was unanimously adopted by the PSD. however, it was forgotten to say that, at the same time, a draft resolution was also approved, submitted by the Block of Left, which precisely recommended a set of extended measures for university sport. Therefore, it is not true that in this parliamentary majority and in particular the Left Block there has been no issue for discussion here, in the Assembly of the Republic, with regard to university sports, with regard to school sports and with regard to sports in general. Mr. João Almeida mentioned his willingness to discuss bills on the subject — here we will be for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u141	You would like to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u142	The CDS has all the opening to do so and could already have done it just in this schedule. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u143	To conclude this item on the agenda, Mr Ivan Gonçalves' speech is followed. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u144	Mr. President : First of all, I would like to congratulate FADU on the person of President Daniel Monteiro. Responding only to what has been said in the debate, the PSD Parliamentary Group is really still in the way of what has already been used to us, because when consensus is sought in this House, what the PSD brings us is political chicana. [[PSD protests.]] What they basically say is that the Government of the Socialist Party, which is government a year ago, has not done what you have not done in four years of government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u145	Do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u146	And if it is true that there was a working group—and it is true that he existed—what is true is that his conclusions, like many other conclusions of many other working groups that were made during the PSD/CDS government, are in a drawer any hidden... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u147	Therefore, none of these measures have been implemented and that is why today there is a need for this draft resolution to be discussed in this House, in the sense that we can finally — and in the omissions of the previous government, supported by your benches — to legislate on this matter for tens of thousands of Portuguese students. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u148	We will begin the sixth and last point of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of petition No 139 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — They intend to set up a new building for the West Hospital Centre / EPE, based in Torres Vedras (António Martins Moreira et al.) and draft resolution No 802 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define a set of policies that invert the current situation at the West Hospital Centre ( PS ). Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting more than 4000 petitioners who have subscribed to petition No 139 / XIII ( 1. a ), whose object is the construction of a new building for the West Hospital Center, based in Torres Vedras. In accordance with the current Government Programme, it is not expected that a new building for the West Hospital Centre will be built for this legislation, but this situation does not remove relevance to this petition, provided that it is properly framed in a future investment map, thus meeting the expectations of autarchs and citizens. This investment, given its importance, should be territorially programmed, socially appropriate and strategically sustainable. The Socialist Party, giving voice to the petitioners, presents draft resolution No. 802 / XIII ( 2 : a ), which alerts to the failures of reorganization of recent years, failures that have contributed to the degradation of the provision of health care, to the reduction of valences, to the demobilization of professionals, to the degradation of physical structures and hospital equipment, as well as to the inefficient dispersion of resources by different units. We recommend to the Government, in this draft resolution, the urgent definition of policies that reverse the current situation of closure of services and hospital concentrations, on behalf of economies of scale led to exaggeration, socially incomprehensible and unsustainable. It is therefore imperative to define the change in the legal status of SPA ( Public Administrative Sector ) for EPE, to seek a rebalancing of medical valences available in the three health units—Qualdas da Rainha, Peniche and Torres Vedras—to find a compromise solution to open competitions for the staff framework, avoiding precariousness, requalifying physical structures, strengthening medical teams of missed specialities, strengthening the set of basic equipment that is in the end of life and internalizing complementary means of diagnosis in order to make the use of resources more efficient. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the creation of the West Hospital Centre aimed at improving the coordination of three health units — Caldas, Torres and Peniche —, bringing scale gains in access to health and improving economic efficiency. of the conjugation of many inadequacies, we verified today that there were few gains and many problems. The Socialist Party refuses to see, in an impatience, the degradation of these health units, thus seeking, through this draft resolution, to present solutions of proximity that meet the expectations of populations and quality standards that this region so demands and deserves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u150	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I address a first word to greet all the subscribers of the petition that is under discussion, especially Dr. António Moreira, who once again defends the problems of many torriens. Let me say, Mr President, that in 2011 the West Hospital Centre and this particular hospital was in technical bankruptcy: EUR 80 million in debts and EUR 20 million in losses, which was beyond the reach of viability and the provision of desirable health care for all. Something has been done to compensate for this problem and to solve, in a way, the health problems throughout the region. If it's a perfect job? There are no perfect jobs and it is possible to do more and better. The construction of a new hospital is a very old requirement and it must be on the table, because Torres Vedras hospital is old, has old facilities and we are always finding more space and doing more a little work to have more office, to have more room. It reminds a little of the works that are done in the Palace of S. Bento, which seems to grow and that there is always another space, plus a meeting room. But we know that's not the basic problem, the basic problem is the construction of a new hospital. We also know what the government has responded to. He said he wasn't planning to build a new hospital. In view of this, this Socialist Party project is an endless hypocrisy. Forgetting that you've been in government for 16 months, to hide your disability, you're going to solve everything now. They want everything: more doctors, more services, more rooms, more hospitals... Works, gold and myrrh for every toast, for every oestino. Hypocrisy has limits. It is because of this behavior of many political actors who, unfortunately, politics is as it is, in disbelief. They cannot, nor should they do so, because we all deserve much better and much better! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u152	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I greet the subscribers of petition No 139 / XIII ( 1. ( a) who fight for the need to build a new hospital in Torres Vedras. The issue of Torres Vedras hospital and the problems associated with the creation of the West Hospital Center for this municipality are not new. Like this petition, also petition No 240 / XIII ( 2. a ) called for an improvement in the provision of health care in Torres Vedras due to the reorganization of the West Hospital Center. Therefore, although this petition did not obtain the number of signatures sufficient to be discussed in plenary, it focused on the subject under discussion. from the Left Block, the problem is very well identified in both petitions. As we have also come to say, the problem has to do with the creation of hospitals and, in this case, with the creation of the West Hospital Center, which dismantled the services and, in the case of the Torres Vedras hospital, removed the maternity specialty and pediatric hospitalization more than two days. So today, these specialties are closed at Torres Vedras Hospital. In addition, on the one hand, the distances that connect the various hospitals of the Hospital Center have not been taken into account, and on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that there is not only a deficit in the structure of Torres Vedras hospital itself, as there are problems associated with the absence of public transport that guarantee the mobility of patients among the various hospitals, and that, in the specialities that have been closed, specifically in Torres Vedras, the difficulty is even greater because we are talking about maternity and we know that the difficulties of displacement are necessarily greater. And we also know of the withdrawal from the transportation of patients. So there are several problems, we see, to solve. We are afraid that there will be a greater investment of equipment, buildings and professionals. The review of this organization is increasingly urgent and requested by the populations of hospitals. Finally, I leave a note on the issue of precariousness and precarious work at the West Hospital Center. We know that there has been a very relevant movement on the part of those workers, particularly those working in the Queen's Horses, and we hope that the process of integration of State precariouss can also solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u154	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u155	Finally, saying that we know that there is still no forecast for the construction of the new hospital, we know that there are investments for some primary health care and some works in the hospital. But that will certainly not solve the root problem of Torres Vedras hospital and that is absolutely necessary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u156	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would obviously like to begin by complimenting the more than 4000 petitioners who draw attention to the problem of providing hospital care in the West. This is a problem that has been of concern to the CDS for a long time and we cannot fail to point out that, recently, we have had the opportunity to move with the President of our party to the Queen's Caldas Hospital. By not forgetting the commitment of health professionals working at the hospital, what we cannot help but say is that, on the spot, there are very serious problems in the Queen's Caldas hospital that concern the increase in the debt to suppliers in millions of euros in the last year, the debts of thousands of hours to nurses, the problems of hiring administrative assistants and psychologists, among others. In fact, these are very serious problems and, at the end of the year and a half, Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party and the parties who support the government would have had time to take concrete measures and decisions to change a very serious panorama, in addition to the possibility of resolving the move from the West Hospital Center to EPE. Therefore, they speak, but hypocritically, they have done nothing to modify problems that are suddenly known. The West region needs new responses to hospital care, responses that go beyond the contributions of the autarchs on these subjects and that should be supported by sound technical opinions that validate the proper use of public money and can lead, as the CDS has always said, to a hospital response that is consistent with the populations of the west. I shall conclude by saying that we will continue to pay attention to this problem and we will be accompanying this issue, ensuring here again that the populations of the West who can continue to count on the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u158	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome, on behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, the more than 4000 petitioners, as well as those who are attending, in the galleries, the discussion of this petition aimed at the construction of a new building for Torres Vedras hospital. I intend to speak of the Torres Vedras hospital because I believe that those who have directed this petition to the Assembly of the Republic deserve at least that, i.e., that we speak of their concrete situation. That is why, because we are talking about this concrete situation, we condemn the closure of the birth block of this hospital, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, and the withdrawal of valences that greatly valued the response of this hospital in Torres Vedras, which also responded to the users of Lourinhã, Cadaval and part of the municipality of Mafra. We understand that it is fair to demand the construction of a new building for the Torres Vedras hospital, as well as the replacement of the valences that have been removed from the hospital. This is also a demand for professionals and populations. I would also like to say that political hypocrisy is to make decisions against people and then to regret the consequences. I am almost losing my mind, but I still want to say that I will always have a voice to warn about these matters and, indeed, the CFP has alerted to these consequences. in this sense, we presented draft resolution No 362 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) that provided for the rejection of the proposed reorganization of hospital care in the West Region, which was at present rejected by the PSD and the CDS. Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, it's too bad she's come to regret something that I've had the chance to avoid. On the proposal that the PS brings the debate, we mean that we cannot agree with the amendment of the legal status of this hospital. The proposal that the PS amends Torres Vedras hospital for EPE will not help solve any of the problems, on the contrary. If the CDS is effectively concerned about this matter, it may follow the PCP. We understand that the entrepreneurship of health and the transformation of a right into a business at any time responds to the needs of the populations, on the contrary: it sharpens this problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-20.u160	Mrs Rita Rato, the Bureau commends the efforts it has made to complete its intervention. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda for today is over. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. and on the agenda there is, firstly, an up-to-date debate required by the CDS-PP on the increase in fuel tax. Secondly, the projects of lein.os 499 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Nationalisation of the social capital of the New Bank, SA ( BE ) and 504 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the integration of the New Bank into the banking public sector and defines its conditions ( PCP ) and draft resolutions 798 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Dissatisfaction by the New Bank's sales decision without consulting the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), 804 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the integration of the New Bank into the public banking sector ( PCP ) and 806 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government renegotiate the conditions of the State loan to the resolution fund for the New Bank ( PSD ). Thirdly, draft resolution No 775 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a firm, active and comprehensive action in the defence of religious freedom ( CDS-PP ). Fourthly, discuss-CL-will be the projects of lein.os 419 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Revokes the foundational regime and establishes a model of democratic management of public higher education institutions ( first amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September 2007 establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ) ( PCP ) and 501 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the legal regime of higher education institutions by introducing parity, strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime ( BE ). Fifthly, draft resolutions 716 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Programme, sensitize and disbursate to combat domestic violence ( The Greens ), 800 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to prevent and combat domestic violence ( BE), 807 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to prevent and combat situations of violence ( NAP) ( the text was replaced at the request of the author) and 811 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the approval of a new national plan for gender equality, citizenship and non-discrimination and the evaluation of the results and effectiveness of the application of electronic bracelets in the context of domestic violence ( CDS-PP ) ( the operative part was replaced at the author's request ). Sixthly, they are on the agenda for tomorrow, although without time allocated, the motions for resolutions 47 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru for the Protection, Conservation, Recovery and Return of Cultural Property, Paleontological, Archaeological, Artistic and Historical, Stealing, Stealing and Illicitly Exported or Transferred, signed in Lisbon on 19 November 2012, and 48 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of South Africa on Scientific and Technological Cooperation signed in Durban on 28 August 2015. Finally, there will be a regiment vote. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your cooperation. I wish the continuation of a good afternoon. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 52 minutes.]]
