ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. of the first item on the agenda, there is the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 420 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 308/2007 of 3 September 2007 — Create and regulate the financial support programme Port 65 - Young people's lease ( PSD ), 466 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September establishing the financial support programme Port 65 - Rent by Youth ( Porta 65 - Youth ) ( CDS-PP ), 487 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — extends by five years the maximum age for access to the lease support programme Porta 65 ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September ) ( BE) and 493 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the beneficiaries and the support of the Porta 65 - Youth Programme ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September 2007 establishing and regulating the financial support programme Porta 65 - Rent by Youth ) ( PCP ). To present the PSD bill, Mr Bruno Coimbra, of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is recognised in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and in the Portuguese legislative building, youth is a period that brings very own responsibilities and challenges. in the society we build, emancipation is a fundamental achievement for the full affirmation of the rights of the human person and therefore also the right to housing was inscribed and maintained in the Constitution in its article 65. the, which names the program that brings us here today. This is something that the PSD and JSD have kept on the political agenda and its concerns. As of June 2016, we presented a draft resolution aimed at ensuring a more effective and efficient response to the needs of young Portuguese people. We therefore propose four amendments: the extension of the age limit to 35 years; the increase in support for young couples with dependents; the opening of the application periods 12 times a year; and finally, the increase in the allocation of the programme so that no young person who meets the conditions for access to it is excluded.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u4	We presented this project and soon at the beginning of the legislative session there were several news in the press with statements from members of the parties that support the government, agreeing with part of our proposals and noting an agreement for a 2017 State Budget, which already included Porta 65 with increased funds and open until 35 years. But even these two proposals, which seemed to take unanimity, were not implemented. The press announcements were quickly denied by notices at the Housing Portal, leaving the young people outside the door between 30 and 35 years old, and the Under-Secretarys of State and the Environment and Youth and Sport have been contradicting themselves from September to now, in parliamentary hearings, now announcing a small and disappointing increase in appropriation, now denying it - and claiming to maintain everything as in 2016. To end this cycle of contradictions and because we understand that access to housing has enormous relevance in the emancipation of young people and in the construction of a life project, we now present not a draft resolution but a draft law, which allows concrete progress on the issues of age and the corresponding financial allocation of this program. What we want, in practice and with you, is to materialise an improvement in the lives of young Portuguese people in a matter on which the parties of this House have already publicly agreed. This is, in fact, the reason why this diploma is so synthetic: we see in this bill only the points on which VV. Ex.s have already expressed themselves in a positive way. We did not want to question, at any time, progress as relevant as what we are doing here today, I am sure, we will succeed. This is the day for all to be consistent with the statements we have made in recent months.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u5	Why didn't they do it in the past? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u6	If so, tomorrow the young Portuguese will be a little better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u7	For clarifications, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u8	Mr President, Mr Bruno Coimbra, I have an explanation to ask you, because there was one aspect in your speech that we do not understand. The honourable Member and his party bring a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic with a view to strengthening and extending the Porta 65 Youth Programme. We are surprised that, for example, in one of the last articles, there is an increase in money for at least EUR 18 million. We believe that this programme should be extended and that, in fact, the money must be strengthened, but we do not understand that your Government, for this programme, which was about EUR 19 or 18 million, has reduced that value! So, you're so worried about the young people accessing the house, and I said from the rostrum that it makes no sense that a young man who meets the criteria is put out, and it was exactly your government who cut the already small amount of money that existed for Porta 65 Jovem? Oh, my God! Mr President, would you say there if this is indeed not pure demagogy and hypocrisy? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u9	In reply, Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, I understand that the honourable Member must turn to the PSD, to justify a little submission of the CFP to the Socialist Government. [[Well, well! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u11	No, no! The proposal is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u12	But if the honourable Member is true to the facts, she knows perfectly well why the difficulties we had during that period were those that were, and she also knows other things about this period of governance. For example, you know that the approval rate for applications in 2013 — at the peak of the difficulty and austerity mentioned by the honourable Member — was 77 % and, last year, under the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u13	The honourable Member has already exceeded his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u14	Of course, Mr. President, I will be done. As I was saying last year under the Government that the honourable Member is supporting, it was only 47 %, i.e. 53 % of the applications remained at the door and did not come in. And the honourable Member supports the Socialist Party which is in the government but he has two records in this matter, I repeat, two! It's not just one, it's two! The first is that of the lowest ever investment in the Programme, which was last year, with the lowest ever allocation, also accumulating another record, which has to do with the greatest cuts ever, which are not from the period that Mrs Deputy mentioned, are earlier than that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u15	Come here to read the proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u16	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate you. I'm going to start by exchanging for kids what we're discussing today. We are talking about the Porta 65 Youth Programme, which is no longer a financial support system for housing for young people, a fundamental programme in a society that is ageing and desperately needs an incentive to birth, a society in which young people are still scaredly high and a society where young people are increasingly dependent on their parents and where they are increasingly autonomous. Therefore, this programme must be really encouraged. But this programme is fundamental only if it is useful, it is only useful if it is suitable for reality and it is only appropriate for reality if we all understand the reality of young Portuguese people, the reality they face when they reach age to be self-sufficient and to integrate the labour market. And the CDS, unlike this majority, didn't realize this only now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u19	The CDS realized that the right to housing, constitutionally consecrated, was not only through the purchase of housing but, above all, through the dynamization of the lease market, amorphous for too many years and almost impossible to achieve, especially in large urban centers, where there is more employment and where it is almost impossible for young people to access the lease. The CDS has noticed this for a long time and, unlike this majority — PS, BE, PCP and ENP — it has noticed that the serious demographic problem we face can only be combated if the younger ones are especially involved and are not ignored. The CDS also realized that the increasing volatility of the labour market particularly affects young people and therefore need incentives for their autonomy. That is why we propose, basically, three things: the increase in age that can be used for the benefit goes from 30 to 35 years, and that if young people are married or live in a de facto union, one of the elements may be up to 37 years old; we extend the grant period, currently 36 months old, to 60, and make an increase of 15 % to the monthly grant if any element of the aggregate has a disability of 60 % or more or if it has a dependent position, and we also increase the monthly subsidy by 20 % if there are two or more dependents on charge. That said, I would like to leave two notes that are not unfortunate and I would like to tell the young Portuguese people who hear us that they should thank the PS, the PCP, the Bloc and the Greens for the fact that they are no longer a year ago, I repeat, one year ago, to take advantage of this regime. Yes, because a year ago the CDS proposed precisely this regime...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u20	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u21	...and the PS, the Block, the PCP and the Greens plunged him! And now, extraordinaryly, they come basically to propose the same thing as we propose, with some changes. And you see why now. It is now clear that they have done so for purely political reasons!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u22	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u23	Even if they agreed with the initiative—as they agree, because they now come to propose the same—which, at the time, mattered to you... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Hey! Hey! The only thing that mattered to you at the time was to show your political strength and say that they were dropping the CDS initiative because yes! And they did! They managed to make young people have to wait another year to finally be able to access this program. It is extraordinary that your policy is to show your strength at all disrespect and contempt for the people who need you the most.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u24	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u25	Now that they've gone off the road, we believe the project is approved. And tell people why they made the lead I just mentioned. One last note only to say that it is extraordinary to accuse the previous government of having reduced the allocation of Gate 65 when last year in 2016,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u26	Mrs. Deputy, you've already outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u27	Mr President, I am actually finishing up, saying that this government has reduced the allocation of Porta 65 to 1.3 million. It is therefore said that what you think is the policy of support for young people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u28	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Access to housing is a right enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic, in Article 65. the, and it is the function of the State to ensure the conditions for the fulfilment of that right. The Porta 65 Program is an instrument of State intervention which is essential to ensure the broad layers of the younger population access to rent. however, reality shows several barriers to access to housing. In particular, the young population has growing difficulty accessing housing, making it increasingly late. in this sense, the Porta 65 Program must respond to this reality, extending the age of access, and must still respond to the need for support over a longer period of life of those who need it. As stated in Decree-Law No 308/2007 — Rent by Youth, the Programme « regulates incentives for young tenants, seeking to stimulate more autonomous lifestyles by young people through support in access to housing ». The Programme also aims to « promote the dynamisation of the lease market while encouraging the rehabilitation of the building for these purposes and the revitalization of degraded urban areas and municipalities in demographic loss ». In order to achieve these objectives and to meet the enlargement of the Porta 65 Programme, it is necessary to strengthen the programme's funds to maintain or increase the level of support. Thus, the Left Block Parliamentary Group — and in line with the conclusions reached in the working group with the Socialist Party on housing issues — has proposed the extension of the Porta 65 programme within five years of the maximum age. thus, young people up to 35 years of age have access to the Program. in the case of couples, it is also extended in five years, and one of its elements may be 37 years old. It also proposes that the deadline for support be extended from an annual renewal of up to 36 months to an annual renewal of up to 60 months. With this reinforcement, we will have a Porta 65 program that is more robust and more capable of responding to the increasing difficulties that the younger layers of the population find in the lease market, as it is today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u30	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation of the Porta 65 Youth Programme meant a retreat in support of housing for young people. It meant a step back because it reduced the funds associated with this Programme to support young people who meet the criteria that were established, it meant a step back because it introduced a tender mode, leaving out young people who met the criteria, because it reduced support from five to three years and because it placed a decreasing subsidy over the support period. We indeed consider, as our Constitution puts it, that housing is a right and we also consider that, in view of the reality of our country, the difficulties in access to housing by young people, either because of the difficulties of stability in employment, because of existing precariousness or low wages, there must be an effective support programme for housing for young people. Therefore, we have brought here today to the Assembly of the Republic, an initiative to strengthen this Porta 65 Youth Programme so that no one actually stays out and that all those who meet the criteria effectively have the support, contrary to the proposals submitted by PSD and CDS, which do not go that way. We propose the extension of the age of beneficiaries from 30 to 35 years; the introduction of criteria in the calculation of the most advantageous monthly reference income for young people; the elimination of the competition and the guarantee that all those who meet the criteria have access to support; the extension of the period of granting financial support from three to five years; the allocation of a fixed subsidy value throughout the period of allocation of housing support; the increase in the increase in the number of family members with disabilities above 60 % and in the number of family members with dependents, adding further support to the situations of single-parent families; and, of course, the need to adapt the budget allocation in order to ensure that the support for lease is young to all applications that are submitted and that meet the defined criteria. Unlike the PSD and CDS, the CFP was consistent throughout the course of this programme, which was bad because it was indeed a step backwards from the previous programme. over these years, the support that has been given has been insufficient. There is indeed a significant number of young people out there and we believe that this is a situation that needs to be resolved, so the proposals of the CFP that we bring here today are going a lot further.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u32	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u33	... of the proposals that have been made by the other parties and thus it will be possible to take this qualitative step in the access of young people to housing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u34	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming all the parties who have submitted proposals for the Porta 65 Youth Programme. It is a relevant programme, set up in 2007 from a programme that already existed and has, in fact, been a robust way to respond to the needs of young people and young couples. The Socialist Party is available to vote favourably, generally, all the projects presented, although they are different. We have already stressed that there is a point that is common to all, which is the need to extend the age of candidates to 35 years. This proposal seems sensible and reasonable to us and we will naturally support it. We have some difficulty with one or another aspect of the various bills presented, and I signal at least two difficulties, which are thus already signalled. The first relates to the fact that there is a draft law in this case of the PSD, which aims to set the budget allocation for the 2018 budget in the form of the law of the Assembly. We understand that this issue, of course, has to be discussed in the House but within the framework of the State budget for 2018 and not within the framework of an autonomous law. It would be very strange if the House began to set the budget appropriations for the year coming in the form of separate laws for the various matters. However, we understand the need to strengthen the programme's allocation, we are the first to defend it and we have not yet achieved it and, therefore, we will certainly fight in this direction. The second difficulty we have, Mr President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the proposal of the Communist Party that we find generous and ambitious in the sense of universal extension of this support to all young people who meet the criteria. We will probably not be able to do so, at least now, and therefore we will be able to defend the maintenance of the competition with the criteria that will be, within committee, agreed among all or which, at least, have a majority to be able to avenge in the final version of the project. In short, Mrs. Members: the autonomy of young people is a good thing in themselves. Young people cannot be self-sufficient if they do not have two basic conditions: employment and housing. This majority has fought a great deal against precariousness and young employment and we must take more steps to ensure greater autonomy for young people in housing. In addition to everything else, this will have an important consequence, which will be the possibility for young people to be able to be a family whenever they want, to be able to have children more safely. The country will benefit from this and the happiness of people as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u36	Mrs. Members, we move on to the second point of our agenda with the general appreciation of the projects of lein.o 165 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 23 / 2006 of 23 June amending the legal regime of young associations ( PS ), 483 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 23 / 2006 of 23 June amending the legal regime of young associations ( PSD ), 488 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of young associations ( First amendment to Law No 23 / 2006 of 23 June ) ( BE) and 492 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — the establishment of a national plan to encourage student associations and the implementation of measures to support and exempt costs in the establishment and recognition of youth associations ( CFP ). Mr Diogo León has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal to amend the legal regime of young associivism, which the PS Parliamentary Group brings today in the light of the Assembly of the Republic, is a widely consensual measure between the student association movement, in line with the maximum that it is in school, either in basic or secondary education, that many young people for the first time have contact with student associative formations and is through participation in the same ones that develop curiosity and interest for other broader associative and civic realities. The association of students plays a key role in the formation of young citizens. Through it, it is the representativeness of all students involved. It is the responsibility of the student body, first and foremost, before their peers, but also before all others who make up the school community. Not rarely, the involvement in student associations constitutes and symbolizes the first contact of these young people with the democratic instruments they will find throughout their civic and political growth: the design of a coherent project, the organization of an engaging and appealing campaign, the public and free debate of proposals and their alternatives, the solidarity and constant dialogue between representatives and representatives and, finally, the decision-making power that translates into the exercise of the vote, in order to better choose and decide, in conscience and in freedom. The proposal of the PS Parliamentary Group is clear, it is only to disappoint the constitution of associations of students of basic and secondary education, exempting them from the payment of fees and emoluments that may today reach the sum of €250, by association, in the act of creation. By removing this financial barrier, we are creating a strong and clear incentive for the formalization of these associations, a primary objective if we take into account that much of them are not yet, almost 43 years after 25 April, properly active and legalized. On a deeper change, I think of everyone's knowledge, that the Government is working on a review of the legal regime of young associivism. This mission, far from being secret, is underway through a working group that operates on the dependence of Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, integrating representatives of his office, representatives of the IPDJ ( Portuguese Institute for Sport and Youth) and still representatives of the National Council for Youth and the National Federation of Youth Associations. The key to this future global review proposal is the dialogue between the Government and the platforms representing young associivism in Portugal. I would also point out that contributions have been made to all the organisations represented in the Youth Consultative Council and that, in due course, the Assembly of the Republic will have a word to say, given that the Secretary of State has publicly stated that he wishes to have this proposal completed at the end of the first half of this year. For today, I would just like to point out that if this proposal on the initiative of the PS is approved, from now on it will no longer be necessary to require students to make the financial effort so that student-based associabilism is recognized before the law, before the institutions and before the school community, with what is expected to develop the relationships necessary to value a close and mature citizenship, where the voice of students has a fundamental role and dimension in the search of solutions that serve the common good that we all aspire to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u38	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Article 70. the Constitution, it was stated that « The State, in collaboration with families, schools, companies, resident organizations, associations and foundations of cultural purposes and cultural and recreational groups, encourages and supports youth organizations in pursuing these goals, as well as the international exchange of youth. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It was the will of the legislator to safeguard that the Portuguese State has the responsibility, in partnership with civil society, to stimulate association and values associated with it. Today, we discuss improvements to the law of young associivism aimed at valuing and supporting student and youth as schools of citizenship, participation and democracy. It is in this kind of organization that often develops the taste for service to the community, for sharing ideals, and that people become aware of the ability they have, by their ideas and initiative, to change their school, their parish, their council, their country. That is the spirit of Article 70. o. It is this spirit of freedom of participation, association and thought that led us to present a proposal in which we heard precisely the youth and student organizations, because we believe in the co-management of political processes that directly concern young people, but also in the associations of students and young people as organizations of special relevance in the discussion of the territories on which they develop their activity. That is also the spirit of Article 70. o. The various proposals that we present effectively improve the model of association participation and create better conditions for the recognition by the society of these organizations, as well as eliminate real barriers to the initiative of young people and students. in this sense, we present a bill that aims at the first amendment to Law No. 23 / 2006, of 23 June, which, remember, is already 11 years old, in which we advocate such significant changes as: the exemption of various rates and emoluments; the possibility of allocating 0, 5 % of the IRS to youth and students associations, for example what has already happened with the IPSS ; the guarantee of minimum support by educational establishments to student associations irrespective of their level of education or nature of the establishment. The proposed amendments promote the improvement of the conditions of support for the work developed by the sector, but also establish the requirements of associations, introducing greater rigor and justice in the sector. It is essential for the quality of our democracy to have critical and participatory citizens. For the PSD, we have young people and students to participate and have a more active voice in decisions concerning them is a way of qualifying Portuguese democracy. This is also the spirit of Article 70. o. And we do this because participation and democracy generated in these noble forms of participation is not something that is tried but that is achieved daily. [[PSD applause.]] [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u40	Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The role of the student movement in the democratization of modern Portugal is unequivocal and this participation of young people and students, even before April 25, is known, is recognized and it is recommended that it be studied. The academic crises that took place in 1962 and 1969 opened a great and important discussion, particularly on the role that the country had in Europe and the world, on the role that the country had in an unjust war in Africa, but also on the role that the new State had in banning freedom of expression and freedom of association at the time. Today, we discuss in particular the freedom of association, which is a conquest of 25 April, is a conquest of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and is also a conquest that has flooded the public schools of this country with political debate and citizen participation. It is known today that in almost all schools in the country, students who, in addition to their classes, participate actively in student associations, in various groups of academia, political and even party nature. After 43 years of the Revolution of 25 April and 41 of the approval of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which enshrines the right of association, it is important to reflect on the support mechanisms that the State provides so that these associations are not only a possibility but also a universal reality throughout Portuguese territory. And this must be a robust reality of active citizen life and a participatory reality in basic schools and secondary schools. The political and civic participation of young people is indispensable, especially in times of political crisis, times when it is important to find other ways and alternatives, and these alternatives are not without a participation of all. That is precisely why the bill presented by the Left Block proposes the exemption of procedural costs these associations of students from basic and secondary schools, in particular to alleviate financially these collectives, these associations, which, if it is said to be passing, do not have a professional body and therefore start from the good will and time that these students who want to be active give to these spaces. It is important that the State and the Assembly of the Republic also take a clear position to release these student associations financially, to ensure that they have these funds for their activities and not for payment of a set of procedural costs. It seems to me that this is one of the ways to open an important debate on the law of young associations so that in the future we can have more active, more participatory associations, and the Left Block will certainly be in this fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u42	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Every week we are obliged to conclude that, in fact, the PSD is much more lacking in the country than in the government. The discussion we are discussing today about young associivism is another proof of this. For four years, the CFP proposed the exemption of costs for the legalization of youth associations. Now, during four years of PSD and CDS government, the PSD denied this possibility and I remember - perfectly from the then Secretary of State Emídio Guerreio, now Member of the PSD, to say that it was not available to discuss, for the legalization of youth associations, the exemption of costs. Welcome PSD to opposition! It is the place that has and is how best contributes to the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]] That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP proposal is intended to apply to all youth associations and not just to student associations. Law No. 23 / 2006, which specifies the legal regime of young associivism, opted in the opinion of the CFP, both at the date and after 11 years, did - wrongly - for the leveling below the youth associations. Today, the youth association movement has very diverse characteristics and no fixed rules should be applied to student associations and youth associations, for example, on a local basis, since, among them, there are very significant differences. Therefore, the CFP, without prejudice to considering that a deeper review of the law is necessary, presents two concrete proposals. One of the proposals we put forward proposes the exemption of costs for legalisation purposes. If associations are not legalized, they cannot apply for public support. It is therefore crucial to ensure the exemption of costs to youth associations, regardless of their nature. The other proposal we put forward concerns a measure for which we have been beaten for years, which is the need to implement a national programme to support student associationism that guarantees legal and institutional support for the formalization of student associations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the practice demonstrates that there has been an attempt by many directions, including an attempt at interference and impediment in the constitution of student associations and the right to student association is enshrined in the Constitution and has historical roots founded in our country in the fight against fascism, so we believe that this right, once and for all, must be enshrined. Therefore, we propose that information and legal and institutional support be provided to student associations or groups of students who wish to form as an association of students, in order to legalize them, their registration in the national register of youth associations and that there be the possibility of applications for programmes to support youth associations. These are proposals that we bring in coherence with what we stand for in the past and in the present, because the PCP only has one word and only has one face, unlike the PSD and the CDS. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u44	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting them and by greeting all the parties who have put forward initiatives in the field of young associations. Youth associations perform a work that is unique and essential in raising awareness for associivism, for volunteering, for citizenship and even for politics, which desperately needs to involve more young people, also through them and for them, in order to make politics more credible. Therefore, all these initiatives that we are discussing today are very important. The CDS has been very concerned about this matter for a long time. In fact, recently, it was by the hand of the CDS that the younger people began to sit in the Economic and Social Council to be able to represent their class and, more important than that, to be able to participate in the modeling of public policies that have to do with their class and with what affects them. All the diplomas presented contain relevant proposals, without exception, but some of these proposals we follow and others do not so much, because for us they need more and better reflection. We understand and accept that paying fees and emoluments can make it difficult and sometimes even prevent young associationism. That is why your payment should be guarded. We have sympathy for this issue and we welcome it without any problem. Other proposals, in our view, need more debate, until we can be doubling support — and support is always welcome — but we must not forget that we have scarce resources and that sometimes we have to select what is essential. Especially when it comes to schools, we cannot forget that they face basic and elementary difficulties in which they often fail to cope. We need to put these factors on the two scales and realize what is most needed. In addition, I also wanted to say that schools already have a model of the participatory budget, in which the promotion of associivism can be promoted there, taking into account the specific circumstances of each school. Finally, I would like to say that the proposals that have a tax impact, not only because of their direct consequence but also because of the relative justice with equality and legitimacy, equally theoretical, that other associations may have, should be more thoughtful, since they may have consequences that we should not ignore and that can tolerate in our action. We are available to deal with all these issues in the field of expertise and, of course, we will make our contribution in this important area. We therefore once again welcome the parties for the initiatives under consideration. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u46	For a second intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In view of the speech of Mrs Rita Rato, I understand that the Communist Party has not had an opportunity to read our proposal. We did not only present the exemption of fees and emoluments. Among other measures — and I will help you, Mrs Rita Rato — we propose the allocation of 0, 5 % of the IRS to the associations and also propose that there be minimum compulsory support from schools to the associations. On the ideas we have to put forward, I would say that Mr Ex. should be ashamed that they are simply proposing a national plan, which in practice means that they do not strictly do anything. As Mrs Rita Rato referred to the previous government, let me tell her that we were actually concerned about restoring the 20% cuts made by the Socialist Party's Government to the associations and we were also very concerned about recovering programmes that had been extinguished by the Socialist Party's Government, namely the OTL (Free-Time Employment) and the International Labour Fields. Since Mrs Rita Rato also spoke about the past, I remember her about her recent past.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u48	Mrs Depurada, please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u49	I'm done now, Mr. President. The Government which the Communist Party supports for months and months last year has left associations waiting for support. If this happens again in 2017, the PSD will not be alone reporting this delay. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u50	For a second intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this discussion, I wanted to say that we remember the fact that Minister Relvas has decided to merge the IPJ ( Portuguese Youth Institute ) with the Instituto do Sport de Portugal ( IDP ), giving rise to the Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth ( IPDJ ), and to have said that what would result from this merger would mean the strengthening of funds for youth association. Youth associations are still awaiting the strengthening of funds that would happen with the merger of IPDJ. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Members of the PSD, as regards Minister Relvas, we are talking about, and I think there is no need to say anything more about this. Mrs Margarida Balseiro Lopes, on specific questions about youth associationism, must not have read well. The PCP bill aims to apply to all associations and not only to student associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u52	You see, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u53	We understand that it is fair that the exemption from costs for legalization purposes applies to all youth associations, whether they are students, or on a local basis, of other characteristics.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u54	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u55	I'm done, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always good to realize that today the CDS has sympathy for the exemption of costs and that the PSD accompanies us. In fact, this situation only confirms that the best place for the PSD and CDS is always outside the government. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u56	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for setting up conditions for the next speaker to use the floor. [[Pause.]] Mr Diogo León has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very briefly, I just wanted to acknowledge the contributions of all political forces. In terms of bills submitted, we see more in those that were presented by the PCP and the Left Block, although the bill presented by the PSD also has some questions on which we can find frank convergences. I would like to stress the Government's commitment to have set up a working group that is in full operation to promote dialogue, cooperation, involvement with youth platforms, with the National Youth Council, with the National Federation of Youth Associations, without forgetting the contributions of the Youth Consultative Council. in the background, the key to this whole review is the proximity and dialogue that can be generated to have a better and stronger legislative production, as well as closer to the expectations of youth associations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u58	Mrs. Members, we follow the general discussion of Bill No. 465 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the establishment of forest management units ( BE ). To present the bill, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal there are about three million hectares of forest. In addition to the enormous economic value, its environmental, social and landscape dimension is recognized. Only 2 % of the forest is public. The 98 % private are distributed by 400 000 owners — many of these cases are mainly north of the Tejo — holders of very small plots very dispersed. The excessive dispersion of these plots prevents a forestry arrangement that makes the sector profitable and hence the abandonment of the properties goes a small step, already taken by thousands of very small owners. Rural and forest properties have owners, often absent, it is true, but almost always identified and located. However, with a tragic regularity, fires sweep the country's forests and, on average, destroy 140,000 ha every year. This despite the fight against fires mobilize vast resources, five times greater than those applied in their prevention. In fact, prevention itself is all the more inadequate the more disordered forest areas are. As long as there are large continuous forest spots, especially eucalyptus, large forest fires are inevitable, no matter how clean they are done and by more means available for combat. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to go further and deeper in the planning and management of forests. What we are proposing here is to create a new legal framework which enables forest producers themselves to create what we call « forest management units » ( UGF ) — a new framework above the ZIFs (forest intervention zones), which can of course continue to exist, but whose limitations are well known to all. More continuous dimension must be given to managed spaces, enabling their planning and stimulating the diversification of uses with resource rationalization and professional management. The negative effects of the atomization of property can thus be reduced by creating a scale in new collectively managed spaces — the forest blocks — and by the corporate way that owners themselves understand, in new entities we call « forest management units ». in this diploma, it is valued the aggregation of continuous forest spaces, introducing robust stimuli that lead to a management aggregated by the owners. The constitution of the forest management units, which we propose here, will involve profound transformations, will face resistance and distrust and its results will not be immediate. We also know that UGFs will require strong public support through tax exemptions and direct financing through the Permanent Forestry Fund. But rather pay that price than postpone the answers, in the illusion that mere professional management will bring profitability to an extremely atomized and dispersed property, or share the Government's belief that the mobilisation of foreign capital of the celluloses or timbers, for example, themselves interested in the process, is that it will ensure the rights of micro and small owners; on the contrary, it will be deprived of the management of their heritage, it will put the fox in the capoeira! In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we must assume the forest management units and the management aggregated by the owners, as an essential part of a reform of forest policies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u60	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the Block on the Left to schedule this bill on the establishment of forest management units, because it is ever more an opportunity to discuss the theme of the forest in this Parliament, a theme that does not always have the visibility deserved. Secondly, I would like to say that it is strange that the Left Block is presenting to Parliament an alternative proposal to which the Government has approved in the Council of Ministers on forestry management societies. This is because you are therefore partners of the government behind the scenes and are opposed to the government here in the House of Democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u62	You can't figure it out, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. The CDS is in favour of the principle of clustered management of the forest precisely by what Mr Matias mentioned here, i.e. by the atomization of Portuguese property, whether it is grouped into societies, or into forest management units, let us call it what we want. But we also know that in Portugal the forest is 94% private and that the private are economic agents and therefore reacts to stimulus, incentives. We will only cease to have abandoned land and forest if it is profitable for the owners to invest and if they get income from it. To this end, the CDS presented a proposal to establish a forest management account which had a set of tax benefits for owners to have a management fund and a real incentive to invest in the forest, a proposal which has evidence given in several countries, but you — Left Block, PCP and PS — have plunged our proposal into this Parliament. on the contrary, you have come to propose what we consider a confiscation of private property, in clear violation of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. And why? For example, Article 3 ( 4 ). that of your bill, you propose that forest management units can hold any right on forest buildings that are less than 100 m from those, i.e. forest management units can land all properties that are within a radius of less than 100 m. Or also, as referred to in Article 6 ( 4 ). that the forest management units consisting of small or medium-sized owners may acquire the buildings they administer at the end of 10 years, without on any side of your proposal safeguarding the right of ownership, which is a right enshrined in the Constitution, Article 62. the, which defends private property.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u64	No more talking, ladies. Members, in the various design errors, as the obligation of the forest management units is within the administrative limit of the municipality, because the forest does not have an administrative limit of the municipality. If a forest owner has a property that exceeds the administrative limit of the municipality... It doesn't make any sense to be limiting a forest management unit to that limit. For all these reasons and some more but now I do not have time to state, we cannot follow this bill. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u65	Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was half a dozen days ago, it was last March 21, that the current government announced that it had approved a new legislative package for the forest sector. Today, two weeks later, paradoxically, we are discussing a proposal for an amendment to legislation that has not yet entered into force, amendments proposed by a left party to a legislative package by the Government of the Left. If what the Block wants to point out is that the government's forest package is more than the same, which is not to take seriously, we couldn't agree more. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the government's forest package is another missed opportunity, it is more a concession to bureaucracy, plus a repository of ideological prejudices, another return to the past. And it is also notorious that this government, which talks so much in consensus to solve the problem of forests, has never sought them. In fact, if the government had ever wanted consensus for the forest, it would have sought first from its coalition partners — Bloc and the Communist Party — but they did not, this debate being the evidence that there is no will for consensus on the left; it is only to satisfy customers and serve prejudice. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Bloco will certainly disagree about the model and how to implement a reform of the forest sector, but if this initiative means that the legislative package of the government does not serve the interests of forest owners, nor will it succeed in developing the forest activity, we also agree. The diploma approved by the Government cannot seriously tackle the problems of forest fires, and that has to be said, but it does not. The diplomas approved by the Government aggravate the disorder of the spaces planted, weaken the economy of the sector and this cannot be silenced. The government's forest package will maintain and even promote forest abandonment. Ladies and gentlemen. Member States, Portugal has been the only Member State in the European Union who has lost the forest area in the last 15 years. Portugal is the only Member State in the European Union in which owners of vast areas have given up investing in the forest, because they have long lost hope of receiving any return on investment. in summer, in Portugal, we have daily news of fires, because every day there are fires, in the north or in the south, on the inside or on the coast. The problems of forest, forest producers and rural populations should not be used for pantomime or tacticsism. They cannot be used for the Bloc and the PCP to account for the third and fifth opposing parties that only support the government in the other days.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u68	Solving the problems of the Portuguese forest cannot serve as a political chicana and it must even deserve broad consensus. If the left-wings of the current government solution cannot be understood, how can one want to understand with producers, populations and other political forces?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u69	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u70	I'm done now, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Left-wing Members who support this government, you understand! That's enough of this management! Understand! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u71	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP considers that measures are necessary to promote a profound change in forestry policy — that is the commitment of its intervention — but considers that the proposals announced by the Government go beyond the main problems of the Portuguese forest, perpetuating policies of previous governments. It is in this extended framework and with the awareness of the need for profound changes that the PCP understands the draft law of BE as a proposal for an extended discussion and construction that needs to be done. The forest is the most extensive element in the rural world and the Portuguese agroforestry sector. Its role in the defense of ecosystems, in the preservation of aquifers, in the fight against the desertification of soils makes it clear how important it is. This importance led for many years to consensus on the subject, which led even to the unanimous approval of the Forest Bases Act, based on a proposal from the CFP, consensus that was broken by the previous Government, PSD / CDS, when it decided to comply with the requirements of major interests, particularly celluloses. This context of the forest sector has been established over the years and options of successive governments. What the forest needs is a rupture with these policies and options that go through the appropriate investment and the existence of public services appropriate to its size and importance. The set of diplomas to which the Government calls 'deep reform of forest policy' continues to lack the necessary public investment. As an example, the case of the forest register is particularly significant, which has not been done because the necessary 700 million euros have not been allocated. At the same time, the Government's 'forest package' does not need to strengthen the human and material resources of the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture for forest intervention. In fact, this deficiency is well expressed in delays in the technical analysis of projects. As the CFP has already stated, the different tasks of forest policy and the complexity of them « require in the design, direction and operational intervention more and more professionally qualified ». This is associated with the centrality of the forest and the national dimension of the problems, and requires the maintenance of the responsibility of forest policy within the central administration of the State, so here too, transferring competences to municipal chambers is not a good solution. essentially, the announced reforms, and even other projects discussed, do not address the essential issue of forest policy. The price and value of wood production is an absolutely crucial issue to ensure active forest management. Without measures to ensure a fair price from wood to production, which combat the effects of duopoly on the cellulose industry, or on the market of pine dominated by the agglomerated by Sonae industry, without measures that value noble woods, such as oak, chestnut, nut and strawberry, completely devalued, there cannot be an inversion of the situation of the national forest. There is a need for extensive forest work and the CFP, as always, is here to do so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u73	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this debate, we want to anticipate a new phase of the parliamentary discussion of the reform of the forest sector initiated by this government and which has been carried out with a series of diplomas recently approved by the Council of Ministers on World Forest Day. therefore, our first stressed, is not intended for the content of this project, but has to do with its political opportunity, since, we all know, the presentation in this House of the legislative package of the forest sector and which covers the matters that are intended to debate today with this diploma of the Left Block. That is to say, it is a kind of out-of-time initiative or, if you allow me the expression « out-of-game ». The second note concerns a sort of legislative redundancy. Yes, it is true that the legal regime for the recognition of forest management entities together with the diploma for the amendment of forest intervention zones ( ZIF ) are two of the diplomas that integrate this reform and that deserve extensive debate and consequent incorporation of contributions, including most meritorial purposes that are reflected in this bill. The third aspect we want to stress is that we are apparently in the presence of a kind of hybridization of diplomas, since the Left Block intends to deal with a settled issue of forest management units and ZIFs in a format similar to one « two ». That is why it would be good if you could prove any gain of cause in this eventual merger. That is certainly why, and for what we know, no proposal has been registered in public discussion. A final note refers to a certain conceptual confusion and also some inconsistencies that this diploma seems to contain, particularly with regard to the type of entities that can develop economic activity and aspects related to the size of the area for the aggregation of owners and which seems to neglect the minifundium. thus, we believe that this initiative did not add enough political substrate to be considered any change to the versions of the diplomas establishing the legal system for the recognition of forest management institutions (EGF) and that they alter the system of creation, operation and extinction of forest intervention areas. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a country with forest potential like Portuguese has the ability to manage, making use of strategic thinking, wisely mixed with science, balancing the immediate drive of the market with the preservation of a natural resource of high value. The forest is too important a public good, so it requires all of us a constructive attitude of constant questioning, of openness to novelty, without misconceptions or tibias. Only in this way can the forest contribute to cohesion, rural development, economic growth and the environmental sustainability of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u75	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the general discussion of Bill No. 465 / XIII ( 2. a ), We will enter the fourth point of our order of business, which consists in the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 405 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures the right to joint custody of minors for the purposes of IRS ( PCP ), 434 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures the right to jointly declare expenditure on dependents for the purposes of IRS(BE) and 485 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the right to jointly declare expenditure on dependents in IRS ( NAP) together with draft resolution 784 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government eliminate discrimination within IRS relating to the exercise of parental responsibilities ( PS ) For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings up a proposal for an amendment to the IRS Code that will allow expenditure on dependents to be declared by separate parents, regardless of the relationship they had before that separation, to have been marriage or de facto union. The Portuguese society evolves and the IRS Code, as well as that of other taxes, must follow this evolution, responding to concrete situations that generate tax injustices. It is evidence that children born of de facto unions cannot be victims of tax discrimination against children born of marriages. It is precisely this tax discrimination that the PCP intends to eliminate with the presentation of its bill, which treats all children and young people in the same way and with the same dignity. All may see their expenses reflected in the IRS statements of their parents in the proportion in which they incurred these expenses, without looking at the type of relationship that the parents had before they separated. The Civil Code states that children born of de facto unions have exactly the same rights as children born of marriages, either during the life of these relationships, or after divorce or dissolution of the de facto union, and this principle should obviously be reflected in the IRS Code. in the PCP bill it is chosen to create an exception in this Code, admitting that the children of separate couples, who have chosen by the joint guard, can simultaneously integrate two family aggregates and that the deductions to the collection relating to these dependents, as well as their incomes, where they exist, can be included in the IRS declarations of both parents in the proportion determined at the time of divorce, the dissolution of de facto union, the judicial separation of persons and property or the declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, amendments to the IRS Code such as those proposed by the CFP today should be accompanied by other fiscal measures. In particular, we reaffirm the need to reverse the real tax sack carried out at the headquarters of IRS by the previous PSD/CDS government. We do not forget that in 2013 PSD and CDS imposed an increase in labour income taxes which resulted in an increase in IRS revenue of more than EUR 3 billion in one year. With the decisive contribution of the CFP, it was possible to initiate the reversal process of this tax sack by eliminating the overtax of IRS. But we need to go further: we need to increase the number of IRS steps and significantly reduce tax rates at the lowest and middle levels, as well as improve deductions with health and education costs. The PCP will not be lacking in this battle for a fairer and more appropriate taxation! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u77	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the House : Article 139 ( 9 ). that of the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons provides that, in cases of divorce, legal separation of persons and goods and declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage and when parental responsibilities are shared by both parents, expenses with dependents may also be shared within IRS. However, outside this possibility, there are numerous other contributors who also exercise parental responsibilities in common and who effectively share expenses with children or dependents. These are not only cases of dissolution of the de facto union which are not currently covered by legislation but also other situations in which, for example, parents have never even lived together, thus having no legal link between themselves. They also add the situations of guardianship or civil sponsorship in which there is no filiation relations with children or young people, parental responsibilities are exercised together, even when the couple is already separated. The law must monitor social evolution and ensure that all settings, as far as parental responsibilities are concerned, benefit from equal treatment. in recent years, several policies have been developed aimed at promoting the sharing of parental responsibilities, ensuring families and children sharing experiences, strengthening bonds and, therefore, also greater gender equity in parental responsibilities and in caring for children, while at the same time fulfilling the best interests of the child, which is to have effectively the care of their two responsible ones, who exercise parental responsibility. It promotes sharing in education, responsibility for providing health, food and all the necessary and appropriate conditions for the full and healthy development of children. However, the Left Block considers that the sharing of the costs arising from these responsibilities should also be promoted, as well as the possibility of a shared deduction of these expenses under IRS. If the two holders of parental responsibilities share expenses with the school books, with the tips, with the health, with the glasses, with the dental apparatus, it does not make sense that they cannot deduct these expenses, also in a shared way, within IRS, regardless of the type of relationship or link they have between themselves. Therefore, what we say is that the focus of state regulation on income reporting and, specifically, deduction of expenditure on dependents should not be that of the type of relationship or link, past or present, between those who exercise parental responsibilities, but rather that of the effective exercise of these parental responsibilities, regardless of the linkage of biological, legal or guardianship. in this sense, the project of the Left Block ensures that, in all situations where parental responsibility is shared, expenses with dependents may be, within IRS, declared and deducted in a shared manner, as is now guaranteed in other situations of divorce, nullity or annulment of marriage and judicial separation of persons and goods, To this end, the possibility of integration of dependents into the aggregates of each of the passive subjects who jointly exercise parental responsibilities when the residence of these two is assigned. Tax law cannot, nor should it, depend on a favourable tax effect of the previous existence of a relationship between taxable persons. It must ensure all possible legal solutions in order to ensure equal treatment to all situations where parental responsibilities are exercised in common. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u79	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We begin by congratulating the CFP on the schedule of this debate, a topic of high social importance, to which the NAP is associated with a bill aimed at ensuring the right of joint declaration of expenditure on dependents in IRS. Article 13. the IRS Code results in that dependents can only, in the case of divorce, legal separation of persons and goods and declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage of taxable persons, integrate one of the family aggregates, being only possible in those specific situations the sharing of expenses with dependents, such as health and education, in cases where parental responsibilities are exercised together. With this project we intend to introduce two amendments to the IRS Code. First of all, it is unquestionable in Portugal the growth of the figure of the shared guard, motivated by the change in the father's role in the daily lives of families, which, often distant and focused on professional life, gave rise to a closer, participatory father concerned about the future of children and attentive to their development. The sharing of parental responsibilities, exercised by both responsible persons, may result in the existence of an alternate residence, so in cases where such occurs, the child should be allowed to integrate the family aggregate of both passive subjects. On the other hand, we believe that the law is limiting only by considering the situations of divorce, the legal separation of persons and property and declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage, leaving out, for example, the situations of dissolution of de facto union, the situations in which parental officials do not have any legal link and the situations in which the exercise of parental responsibilities is done under a regime of protection or civil restraint, so we also propose to change this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u81	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution enshrines the right to family, marriage and affiliation, it does not establish a duty of family, marriage and affiliation. in Article 36. it says something very interesting, that it is important to remember here: « Children born out of wedlock cannot, therefore, be subject to any discrimination(...) ». This is in the Constitution. And what happens in practice? What happens in practice is that if a couple is divorced today, the father and mother can put the employee in their income statement. in the case of dissolution of a de facto union, what finances or, at least, certain financial allocations suggest is the following: « Well, this year puts the children in the mother’s income statement and, for the year, put them on the father’s side ». In other words, what exists today, in terms of interpretation of the law, of the IRS Code, is a discriminatory treatment not only between divorces and dissolutions of de facto unions but also in cases where the custody of dependents is not joint. The employee's guardian may be assigned only to the father or only to the mother, but there may be a judicial agreement within which those who do not have the guard, the father or the mother, pay a food pension. This is not planned for IRS. Families change, but the law hasn't changed. And I'll bring you here just one dice for the gentlemen. Members see how families change: in 1991 the percentage of children born out of wedlock was 15%; in 2010 the date of the last census was 41%. Therefore, Portuguese families have changed — whether we like it or not — it is reality, but the law has not changed. In fact, there is a law on de facto union which, curiously, states that people living in de facto union must be treated in tax terms in the same way as married taxable persons. Now, if people living in a de facto union should be treated, in tax terms, in the same way as the married taxable persons, we would think that people who dissolve a de facto union should also be treated in the same way as those who divorce themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u83	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u84	That is not so and therefore what we want, when presenting this draft resolution—and I will explain why we have presented a draft resolution and not a draft law—is to revisit the IRS in a very complicated way and to which, in our understanding, the draft laws, which, obviously, we subscribe and we will make it possible, do not answer, as they do not answer all of the questions. And why do they not answer all the questions? Because today's IRS has five important aspects that have to do with minors: a specific deduction per dependent; a food pension that eventually the father gives to the mother or mother gives to the father—and I'm being here a little orthodox, considering a father and a mother, because they can be two parents or two mothers—; deductions of expenses with education; deductions of expenses with health; and something that we talk about in our draft resolution and which is not mentioned in the other bills, which is the age limit to which the dependent can be considered dependent. When it comes to a joint custody court decision, the joint guard is only up to 18 years old, but in the case of a family member, the child may be considered dependent up to 25 years old, so here is another dimension that needs to be considered. in our understanding, the PCP, BE and PAN projects address one of these issues, in fact, those of the Block and the PAN are more advanced, in that they do not relate the situations to the previous parenthood situation, i.e., it does not matter whether it is a divorce or the dissolution of a de facto union, what matters is parentality. And what is in the Constitution is kinship, what is in the Civil Code is kinship. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u85	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u86	To conclude, I would just say the following: we, the Socialist Party, presented this draft resolution and are willing to make the bills viable. There is work to be done in the field of expertise and we hope that all parliamentary banks will be able to follow this effort to improve the IRS for the benefit of all Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u87	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say, in relation to the intention of the projects which are today, here on the table and which I believe will be more or less similar, that it is based on the principle that the discounts that can be made within IRS and the tax treatment of expenses with children must depend on the parental responsibilities that are effectively exercised and, in the case of shared custody, must be exercised in common and, as such, be the target of tax treatment in the IRS declarations of both parents. from this point of view, these projects have our agreement. It seems obvious to me that what must determine the discount is the fact that expenditure and parental responsibility are actually exercised. What has happened and has given rise to parental responsibility, from my point of view and from the fiscal point of view, must be absolutely indifferent. This is how I interpret the fact that since 2015 with the reform of the IRS that has been made, it has become possible, and well, that spending with children was divided by both parents in cases of shared custody. What is in the law refers only to cases of divorce and separation, but I think it should be extended, similarly, as the projects propose, to all situations in which there is shared custody, whether they are situations of dissolution of de facto union, whether they are situations in which people have never lived in de facto union and have shared custody of a minor, whether they are similar situations, such as those referred to by the PS, in which we are not talking to a minor but a dependent of 25 years and therefore must deserve similar tax treatment. If this is provided for in the case of students and in the case of couples, it must be applied similarly to all situations. Therefore, from the point of view of what is proposed in principle, we see no objection, quite the contrary, that seems to make sense to us, in view of the principles governing tax law. In any case, there are some questions that, I believe, need to be carefully analyzed, in order to be sure that, this time, we even include all cases, because they are many and complex. And, let us be clear, often the Tax Authority, the tax machine, does not apply the law as it should and is very restrictive to make a similar application of the law and a principle that seems obvious to me: similar responsibilities and similar expenses must correspond to similar tax treatment. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u89	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A previous point is that the PSD Parliamentary Group has always fought and continues to beat for measures that make the distribution of the tax burden borne by Portuguese more equitable and fair. Therefore, injustice cannot be created among the different taxpayers. The reform of the IRS carried out by the previous Government was discussed, planned, studied and weighted both at the technical level and its impacts. The reform of the IRS discussed the various problems and reached balanced solutions. The amendments should therefore be duly substantiated and understood throughout their scope and implications. We cannot create solutions that cause more problems than those that will solve. For example, are deductions going to be higher in the case of separate parents, facing couples with children at the time of marriage? On the other hand, making deductions more complex and on proportional grounds can drag taxpayers, for example, for contentious and consequent solutions to the receipt of reimbursements. Finally, one word on the Socialist Party's draft resolution : at least, it is loaded, despite the explanation which Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira wanted to give. In the face of the proposals of the blocist and communist partners, « it kicked to the corner ». If the draft resolution, anchored in the Constitution of the Republic, had been in depth, it would have come to the conclusion that we are dealing with a case of the Members' own. In addition to Article 36, the Constitution goes ahead. the, which speaks of the family, says that taxes are legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic. In conclusion, the Socialist Party recommends that the Government legislate on matters which fall within the competence of Members of the Government rather than the Government. [[PS protests.]] [[Protests by PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] That's why, sirs. Members, and by the way, the parties that support the government intend to destroy, as far as the next direction is concerned, are drifting and the taste of the wind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u91	Mr Paulo Sá has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by registering with satisfaction the consensus generated in this debate on the proposal put forward by the CFP, a proposal that responds to a common problem for many and many thousands of families. But by registering this consensus I will not fail to point out that this problem could have been resolved at the time of the reform of the IRS in 2014 by the former PSD/CDS Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u93	You could have remembered that at the time...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u94	It was a reform that these two parties said they were friends with families but left to solve the issue of children born of de facto unions. They have chosen not to solve this problem, but now, in a new political framework, this problem will be solved. A final note: after the presentation of the PCP bill, BE and the NAP presented legislative initiatives that, welcoming our proposal on de facto unions, propose consideration of other situations, including those in which parents have never lived together or exercise parental responsibilities under the regime of protection or civil protection. The CFP will naturally follow these proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u95	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the debate of the projects of lein.os 405 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 434 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 485 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), in general, together with draft resolution No 784 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). We turn to the last item on our agenda today, which is part of the joint debate on petition No 193 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Against the abatements and bad conditions in municipal canes, by the right of animals ( Patrícia Maria Coelho Torneiro and others) and draft resolution No 789 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Regulation and Assessment Report of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August approving measures for the establishment of an official animal collection centre network and establishing the prohibition of the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the population ( CFP ). For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by congratulating the 11,498 petitioners who aim at the end of the slaughter in the municipal canies and the bad conditions of them and that management goes to the associations of the animals' friends. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concerns and concerns of the CFP regarding issues relating to animal welfare are well-known, as well as the commitment it has expressed to protect and respect for animals. We know the indisputable existence of abandonment of pets for the most varied reasons and we know the difficulty of adopting such animals, either by the degradation of the lives of the populations, which prevents the reception of animals, or by the lack of economic and financial means to maintain or adopt pets, which does not allow them to guarantee the necessary treatments and promote healthy coexistence between humans and animals. These and other reasons make a strong contribution to the proliferation of errant animals, which led the CFP to present to the Assembly of the Republic in 2015 a draft law on this matter in order to respect the welfare of animals and to eliminate health risks for humans. The petition we have discussed today, and whose arguments we recognize and value, is brought to the debate a little while, in our view, insofar as Bill No. 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), by the authorship of the CFP, approved measures for the establishment of a network of official animal collection centres and for the modernization of the municipal veterinary services subsequently poured out in Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August, where all concerns that Mr. Petitioners identify. Indeed, with the approval of this law the end of slaughter of errant animals was legislated as a form of control of the population and was allowed only by « health or behaviour reasons ». We also defend the importance of the responsibility of the State to ensure that concerns about animal welfare have been integrated into environmental education since 1. the cycle of basic education, as well as the dynamization of campaigns against the abandonment of animals. We consider the option of families — and not luxury — of adopting and caring for animals, regardless of their economic and financial situation, even for matters of solidarity and poverty among the elderly, but we point to the need to protect public health, hygiene and animal welfare. in this sense, we proposed the creation of a network of official animal collection centers and the creation of legal mechanisms to stimulate sterilization and vaccination campaigns. We are now presenting a draft resolution, recommending to the Government the urgent need for the regulation of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August to implement it, produce effects and have the desired effectiveness. We also intend to recommend that, within one year of being regulated by that Law, an assessment should be made by the entities concerned of the practical effects of the Law and the difficulties encountered in its application, so that any legislative improvements can be made in the future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u97	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to express our understanding of the concerns expressed in this petition. Fortunately, the Assembly of the Republic has already taken steps to resolve them, to a large extent, by a law of 2016, which prohibits practices of slaughtering errant animals as a form of control of the population, until establishing extended deadlines for adaptation of canes, just in the sense of incorporating sterilization as a dominant approach. It's just that there's still no regulation of this law. We therefore want to express here, first of all, our concern that there are no regulations yet adopted. We want to identify five challenges that this petition raises and to which we understand that this House must respond. First, the universe of animals entered into cans or cats is not known with minimal accuracy. The figures referred to annually are unreal numbers and therefore, first of all, a national database is required with the inclusion of each animal — species, sex, origin and destination. This must be a priority. Second, the prohibition that these animals have a destination other than that of return to the place of origin or adoption. Third, the provision of the municipal medical and veterinary services of the human and technical means necessary for the treatment of common diseases and for the policies of capture, sterilization and return. Fourth, strict monitoring of the facilities and of the medical veterinary acts practiced, which implies greater accountability of DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ). Finally, fifthly, the adaptation of dogs and cats to the new model of relation to animals, which the latest legislation has enshrined. This is a function of the State, at the municipal level, and that the State cannot alienate. We have therefore all as a society for which the welfare of animals has become an important value, which requires the State to fulfil that competence and to do so strictly. The Left Block will give these five challenges and the answer to these five challenges all its commitment and will contribute to their realization in the name of a more decent society. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u99	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joana Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by leaving a special greeting to the 11 495 petitioners of petition No 193 / XII ( 2. a ), doing so in the person of the first subscriber, Patrícia Maria Coelho Torneiro, and by saying that the object of this petition has already made its way, which culminated in Law No 27 / 2016, of 23 August. in the context of 11. the Commission, a working group was set up representing all parliamentary groups and the NAP, which gave rise to an extended consensus for a legislative initiative of citizens to meet the will of petitioners today under discussion. Later, a draft law of the CFP was joined by the legislative initiative of citizens, which, after making its way, was adopted in conjunction with the legislative initiative of citizens, and transformed into law, with the announcement of the parliamentary groups of this House. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the draft resolution presented today by the CFP, we are also concerned about the regulation of the Act, Mrs Ana Virginia, but it does not seem to us to be timeless. There is a lot of work to be done in this area. The municipalities must prepare for the application of the Law to be done in its fullness, with all the conditions and in the interest of animal welfare, which all in the working group, of which the CFP was part, defended, having the draft resolution of the CFP had a very important focus in Law No. 27 / 2016 of 23 August. I think the government is doing its job. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Deputy Minister and the Secretary of State of the Local Administration are, together, regulating the Law through a door, so that it can be implemented. It doesn't seem like it's out of time, it seems to us, yes, that it's a job to do. I congratulate all those who participated in this project, from petitioners to parliamentary groups, and who support the municipalities so that this Law can be applied and the animal welfare respected, as all those who participated in the working group defended, as is reflected in Law No. 27 / 2016, of 23 August. That is what the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes to say. We certainly follow the concerns, but it does not seem to us that regulation is out of time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u101	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 11 000 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition and by saying that the CDS defends and applies the rules of animal welfare, whether to dogs or to cats, or to all other animal species. I recall, as has already been mentioned here by several Mrs. Members, that the legislative initiatives presented in 2015 were approved unanimously, after a wide debate, hearings, visits, as Mrs Joana Lima mentioned here, and were materialized in Law No 27 / 2016. in this sense, we consider that the concerns expressed by the petitioners, concerning the welfare of pets, are already assured in the Act that was approved here, effectively lacking its complete regulation, which is not done. I cannot but point out, once again, that it is curious that the CFP, which is a partner of the Government, comes to the Assembly of the Republic to protest against. In other words, it has the possibility of combining rules with the government, but it is here to oppose the government when it is a partner. Therefore, basically, I would like to know whether the CFP comes to plenary to make the pressure that it cannot exert in another situation or whether it is just to account for its electorate who is not a partner of the government. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] We consider that the petition deals not only with the topics that are the subject of discussion but also with a set of other topics, being some veiled attacks, which have unfortunately come to take place in the rural world and which we have already been accustomed to in recent times. These attacks generally come from environmental movements, which only know the reality of the urban media and do not respect rural traditions, as part of the culture of a people, which is, in this case, the Portuguese people. It has been so in several situations, either in attempts to ban bullfighting and bullfighting shows, or in an attempt to ban the movement of animal traction vehicles on the public road, either with the presentation of projects that led to the end of the breeding of animals of some breeds, or even in the prohibition of hunting, which is so important for synergetic sorting. For this matter, the CDS is in fact not available. with regard to the proposal from the CFP, it is obvious that the Government should comply with the law, which is outdated. And, therefore, we have approved the Law, voted in favour of it, and we will certainly follow your concern. What we're surprised at is that they're showing it here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u103	Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall, of course, begin by greeting and complimenting the subscribers of the petition that is being discussed here. I also welcome the PCP by presenting this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u106	The initiative was aimed at the end of the slaughter in municipal canies, as well as the improvement of housing conditions in them. This House was not indifferent. After the establishment of a working group, which has already been mentioned here, it produced consensus legislation, which was translated into Law No 27 / 2016. The work of the Assembly of the Republic is done, and well done. Law No 27 / 2016 was adopted unanimously. We are surprised that now a party of the current majority, which has responsibility for the support of the current government, will recognize that nothing has been done or is being done by the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u108	Nevertheless, we welcome the initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party, as it is well representative of the current government's will to be transferring responsibility for the end of animal slaughter to the municipalities, without taking on the responsibilities it has. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u109	the Government shall be responsible for the measures which are provided for in this Law and which cannot be diminished. It is up to the government to provide the municipalities with the means to get the slaughter done in the municipal canies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u111	Now, let's see that nothing is being done! We are even afraid that the current Law, on the date of its entry into force, is not even regulated or there are conditions for producing the effects that we all aspire to. So, my friends, I didn't want to end without saying that the responsibility for not implementing this law will be for the current government and that if, on the expected date, animals are still slaughtered in municipal canies, responsibility is for the current majority of parliament,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u112	... of the majority that this government supports!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u114	Then do not say that the responsibility lies with the municipalities. Don't! The municipalities are waiting for the powers to be transferred to them to supplement this Law. We fear that municipalities will once again be the scapegoat of the current government, as they have been in related matters. We are well aware that municipalities are also equipped with poor conditions and that they need the means so that they too can fulfil their obligation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u115	Exactly! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u116	The municipalities do not want to be outside the entities that provide comfort to the animals. To that end, they want the support of the current government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u117	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, to greet the 11 500 petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic, exercising the right to petition, to request the end of the slaughter in the municipal canies and to denounce the bad conditions of the latter. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be important to say, as has already been mentioned in the speech of other Members. Members, that the Assembly of the Republic has not been indifferent to the matter of animal rights and even their rights and the conditions in which they live. in this sense, what the petition asks the Assembly of the Republic has already obtained last year, in a concrete response given by the Assembly of the Republic. Still, in our perspective, the present debate remains. Why? Because, if it is true that the Assembly of the Republic has adopted a text which resulted in Law No 27 / 2016, which rightly provides for the end of the slaughter of animals in municipal canes, what happens is that this Law is not regulated and, at the end of this year, the Assembly of the Republic has an obligation to pressure the Government to make such regulations. I therefore also welcome the draft resolution put forward by the CFP, precisely because it calls for something which, I think, should not be done, is that the Assembly of the Republic is in fact pressuring the Government to do what the Law, approved by the Assembly of the Republic, has already established and which is its regulation, since, without that regulation, there are actually steps in the Law that will not be implemented. I would also like to say that the Greens have taken this matter as one of their priorities on the political agenda. Of many others presented in the Assembly of the Republic, we have already presented various initiatives, including draft resolutions, which were adopted and which were precisely aimed at putting aside the paradigm of slaughter and accessing, once and for all, the paradigm of sterilization.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-06.u119	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, we conclude the assessment of petition No 193 / XII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolution No 789 / XIII ( 2. ( a). The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: at the first point, we will proceed to the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 443 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 148 / 2015 of 9 September which approved the Legal System of the Audit Supervision by strengthening the supervisory powers of the Securities Market Commission in verifying any conflicts of interest between the audit exercise to public interest entities and the provision of consulting services to such entities or third parties ( CDS-PP ), 444 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended fourth Decree-Law No. 228 / 2000 of 23 September ( Creates the National Council of Financial Supervisors ), strengthening the powers of the National Council of Financial Supervisors and promoting efficient collaboration and coordination between the various financial supervisory bodies, Banco de Portugal, Commission on the Securities Market and Insurance Supervisory Authority ( ASF ), establishing an executive secretariat ( CDS-PP ), 445 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) —Procedures to amend the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December adopting restrictive measures in the marketing of products and financial instruments by credit institutions and financial corporations ( CDS-PP ), 446 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January, Organic Law of the Banco de Portugal, introducing the rule that the completion of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal is carried out by competitive procedure ( CDS-PP ), 447 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December which approved the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, strengthening the supervisory powers of the Banco de Portugal as regards the corporate governance systems of credit institutions and introducing limitations to the granting of credit to holders of qualifying holdings in credit institutions ( CDS-PP ), 448 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, preventing the allocation of incentives for marketing to the retail of specific products or financial instruments and reinforcing the intervention of the Banco de Portugal in this area ( CDS-PP ), 489 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It imposes the classification of public supply to all positions involving unqualified investors, ensuring greater protection for small investors ( amendment to the Securities Code, approved by Decree-Law No 486 / 99 of 13 November ) ( BE), 490 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Limits the marketing of financial products ( amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December ) ( BE ), 491 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) —Prohibits banks from carrying out transactions on securities issued by themselves or by entities related to them ( amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December) ( BE) and 494 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens supervisory obligations by the Banco de Portugal and transparency in conducting audits to credit institutions and financial corporations ( thirty-sixth amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ) ( PCP ) together with draft resolutions 787 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the exemption of Carlos Costa from the position of Governor of Banco de Portugal ( BE ) and 788 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the weighting of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Investigation Committees in the context of the transposition of the Financial Markets and Instruments Directive and the Reform of the Financial Sector Supervision Model ( PS ). of the second point is the general debate of draft law No 486 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Dematerialization of manuals and other school materials ( The Greens ). The examination of petitions Nos 179/ XIII ( 2 ) follows. a ) — They request that the parish of Milheiros de Poiares be integrated into the municipality of São João da Madeira ( Daniel José Henriques Almeida and others) and 245 / XIII ( 2. a ) — They request that the parish of Milheiros de Poiares remain in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira (Emídio Ferreira dos Santos Sousa et al.). Finally, at 12 noon, there will be a scheduled voting period. I wish everyone a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 56 minutes.]]
