ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Today we have time constraints — the members of the Bureau are going to Bethlehem at the end of the session, so the Bureau will be even more implacable in zeal for the fulfillment of the times. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the first item on the agenda generally include the discussion of Bill No 41 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to create the public service for electronic notifications associated with the single digital address. In order to present the proposal for a law, the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is intended to respond to a very clear purpose: to create a single digital address, equivalent to the home of the citizens and the seat of the public, and a public service of electronic notifications, in order to complete the absence of a digital address signed by each citizen and by each company, national or foreign, which allows the sending of notifications with legal effectiveness. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, highlight some more relevant aspects that have supported and substantiated the elaboration of this bill. First of all, a voluntary membership service is involved. With this bill, the Government does not intend to communicate with citizens only by e-mail, of course, nor does it intend to impose on the citizen the use of this form of communication for the reception of communications which the State wishes to address. in fact, this is an entirely voluntary membership service on the part of the citizen, who will have to express a express willingness to receive notifications on this way. Secondly, the public notification service shall be available only for administrative and fiscal notifications and for counter-ordinations. That is why citations, communications and judicial notifications are not covered. Thirdly, the possibility of using the personal e-mail service is enshrined. People may indicate the e-mail service they already have and use, provided by any e-mail service provider, and may subscribe to that address, as well as change it at any time, electronically or in person. Fourthly, citizens and businesses start to have a single digital address. The public service of electronic notifications and simple alerts will be provided by a single public entity, the Agency for Administrative Modernization, preventing citizens from having to consult different platforms and different portals to communicate with the Public Administration. Fifthly, the computer support associated with the electronic notification service will enable the recipient to prove and register, as well as the date and time for making electronic notifications available in their unique digital dwellings for all legal purposes. It is proposed that the notification be deemed to have been received on the fifth day after dispatch, equivalent to, for all purposes, sending notifications by postal letter. Finally, authorisation is also requested to amend tax and social security legislation with regard to notifications in order to ensure the necessary harmonisation of deadlines and procedures. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, through the proposal submitted, the Government intends to build a regime that for the first time will allow all natural and legal, national and foreign persons to voluntarily engage in a single e-mail address to communicate with the entire Public Administration as well as with private entities providing essential services covered by the law. We can, of course, provide further clarification in the context of the debate, in particular, of this proposal for a law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u3	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u4	Mr President, Mrs Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mrs and Mrs. Members: More than in an information society, we truly live in a digital society where the potentials opened by the computer revolution could not fail to be duly exploited by the Public Administration for the benefit of citizens, businesses and, of course, the State itself. Fortunately, Portugal is one of the countries most invested in the so-called « Electronic Public Administration ». It is fair to recognise, moreover, that over the last few years, a continuous effort has been made to debug everything that may constitute an obstacle to the introduction of a legal framework on electronic notifications and quotations. The proposal for a law that the Government is introducing to us is precisely this continuing effort, which, by itself, is a positive fact that must be pointed out. However, Mrs Minister, the legislative initiative before us today raises two types of reservations. The first relates to the consecration of the principle of free adherence to the service, which was careful to emphasize. I repeat, Madam Minister, that this is a good principle, and this is a good principle, it is not understood why accession to the system of electronic social security notifications, which, so far - it has been stressed - was free to join, with this bill and with the amendment it introduces to that legislation, to be compulsory. We believe that this amendment is, in fact, a consensual and a backward one. I draw attention to Article 23. o -A of the Code of Contributing Regimes of the Preventive Social Security System. A second reservation comes from the fact that this bill is not accompanied by any studies or opinions or documents, such as, in fact, by Article 118. Article 124 ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. We do not understand, Mrs Minister, because the bill is not accompanied by any of these documents. If it is true, as is said in the preliminary draft decree, which was heard by the National Data Protection Commission, it is not understood why the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission was not also referred to the Assembly of the Republic. from our point of view, this is not a matter of contempt, Minister. It is not a matter of disappointment because the dematerialization of the public administration's relationship with citizens and with states is not, as you know, risk-free. It is therefore necessary to ensure that citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees are properly guaranteed. As the Minister and all know, Portugal, unlike Spain, for example, does not have a real law on the basis of public administration relations with citizens, which would naturally help us in this task. Therefore, Madam Minister, without basic law and without any studies at this stage, we will have to abstain from voting on this diploma and, of course, reserve for the future that the text resulting from this legislative authorization may come to be, if justified, subject to parliamentary scrutiny. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u5	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u6	Mr President, Mrs Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mrs. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The intervention that preceded my correction only that which I had foreseen in so far as I can no longer say that this bill of legislative authorization will be unanimously upheld. However, I can say or anticipate that no one will oppose this bill, because there would clearly be no place to do so with reasonableness and, of course, within the freedom to express their views to any parliamentary group. The idea is to create a single digital address, attributing to the citizen or any company the ability to freely choose, freely opt to adhere or not. It is true that this faculty will not exist only in cases where it no longer exists today, i.e. in cases where the law assigns to legal persons the obligation to adhere to the system which is known as ViaCTT, but still there is the ability to maintain that service or to adhere to the single digital address. In any case, to the point of view of rigour, what is at stake in this House today is not exactly the draft legislative decree which aims to carry out the legislative authorisation, but the legislative authorization itself. And, therefore, in these terms and in formal terms, we would have to discuss today the object, the meaning, the length and duration of the authorisation and clearly, from this point of view, I am convinced that no one can raise any objection. But I would like to stress — the Minister has already done so — the numerous advantages resulting from the implementation of this proposal. Of course, I stress the saving that will come to the state, not to be suspicious, in fact, is something that we all have to record. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira said that this proposal would be inserted in a continuous fashion, but I would correct - and I would say that the interregnum is recovered with regard to administrative modernization and cost rationalization, because clearly, with this proposal, millions of euros could be saved. The only question that will be attended by a citizen will be to question why this administrative saving measure has not been taken so far. So I would also like to congratulate the Government on that. But there are also other issues that obviously stem from the use of these means: speed, reliability, comfort itself. Moreover, among the various media bodies which have published the news of the deliberations of the Council of Ministers that had approved this proposal, I would like to highlight a title which I particularly welcome: « Here comes the only digital address: believe it will work». And it will certainly give the way to all the citizens who...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u7	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u8	Mr President, I shall immediately conclude by saying that we recognize that there could be a single object in relation to the population layer that still feels any difficulty in using these means. however, this part of the population clearly will not be harmed, given the voluntary nature of membership. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u9	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u10	Mr President, Mrs Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: This bill does not raise any objection to us, mainly by three orders of reason. Firstly, this is a measure aimed at facilitating the lives of citizens and facilitating the life of the State in its relationship with citizens, including a saving of material and human resources for the State. It involves a saving of material resources to the extent that many mailings are dispensed with, with the inherent costs of paper, dispatch, but also enables human resources to be saved, and in this sense officials who are affected by these functions or who spend a lot of their time in this type of operations can perfectly be used in a more beneficial way for the State and citizens. A second reason is that it is an optional measure. We would have many objections if this measure were imposed on all citizens, knowing that, unfortunately, there will still be many citizens, particularly the older ones, who would have difficulty adapting to a compulsory regime of this kind. Therefore, the optional nature guards this concern. Thirdly, data security and confidentiality must be safeguarded. And therefore the reference that is made to the guarantee of security and privacy of information under Law No 67 / 98 of 26 October, which is the Personal Data Protection Act, actually solves this problem and is another reason why this bill does not raise any objection to us. Finally, it is not applicable to summons and judicial notifications, which obviously seems prudent, taking into account the particular nature of the correspondence issued through the courts. It would be unwise to apply this kind of notification as well. Therefore, from our point of view, the objections that could be raised to the introduction of such a system are overcome by the content of the proposed legislative authorisation law and also by the content of the authorized decree, which is annexed to the legislative initiative presented. in this sense, there will be no objection to the adoption of this legislative initiative by the CFP Parliamentary Group. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : After congratulating the Minister and the Members Secretary of State, I would like to say that the creation of the single digital address is, in a generic way, a good measure, which we welcome and applaud for being voluntary. If that were not the case, we would have the greatest reservations and doubts about this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u14	We have always supported and defended simplification. So that's not at stake. This measure has obvious advantages for individuals — of course — and, from the point of view of public authorities, there seems to be at least a reduction in costs on account of a matter which I will already address. I also find it an advantage to reduce the time of sending and receiving notifications and communications, so that there is potentially less extravagant in the digital age. However, Mrs Minister, there are three questions which cause us doubts and which are of the utmost importance. In addition, we also have a concern, which is not despicable, and a curiosity about which I will speak. There are some solutions that are not understood and, therefore, we will benefit from this measure’s doubt, but we would like to see some questions clarified. citations, notifications and communications from the courts, as I have said, will be excluded from the scope of this diploma — in particular, very well — but, in the tax procedure and in the tax enforcement procedures, this will not happen as much as I understand. I ask you, Minister, what is the reason for this difference. We already know that there is a certain imbalance — everyone knows — between individuals and tax administration. Will we bring here some smaller guarantees for citizens in the face of tax administration, which is already so muscular about individuals? We have some doubts about this, and it seems to us that this can make the matter worse. Madam Minister, the same is true of social security. As far as I know, and I would like this to be clarified — I know that there is no time left, but then we will have a chance to talk about this — the electronic way in social security becomes exclusive, which I am very concerned about. What are the guarantees we have? In addition, Mr. Minister, which public entity will provide this service? What structure is this? Where is she going to anchor? Will one more superstructure be created? Would it not be better to do so with the TTCs, which are a third-party impartial and are not directly interested in the result of the notification? There are issues that concern us. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you another question: in the event of a cut in the Internet service, what is planned under these circumstances? What happens if the citizen does not pay the Internet and stays without it? It is also an important issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u16	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you just one more question, which is also a curiosity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u17	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u18	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. CNPD ( National Data Protection Commission ) has apparently been heard, as can be read in the diploma. I ask you: what did the Commission say? Can you give us that opinion, please? We have many doubts, because we do not know what the position of the National Data Protection Commission is. Therefore, we were very pleased to have such an opinion brought to our attention or at least to tell us what its content is. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u20	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members and Members of Parliament : in an era of growing technology and the media, it is important that the Public Administration accompany this development and invite the technological gains for the modernization of services and to facilitate communication between the Administration and the citizens. And Portugal has in fact been on the front line in relation to this matter. We highlight as positive, in this proposal, the congregation of all public administration notifications in the loyalty of a single e-mail address, which simplifies the current situation that implies having several different media on each portal of the various public administration entities. Therefore, this simplification is welcome. Also welcome is the integration of the whole content of the notification, which, of course, provides for savings with sending these notifications and also greater speed in communication...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u21	Madam Member, I would like to ask you for a slight interruption. There are many of you. Ladies and gentlemen standing and talking, which can't happen. We must remain silent in order to respect the speakers and those who want to hear them. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that this simplification is welcome due to the greater speed and the issues that have to do with saving costs with the sending of notifications. We welcome the character of voluntary adherence to the single digital address, and we know well that, despite the use of the Internet, information technology and computer platforms are becoming increasingly widespread in our country, there are still many people who do not have direct access to these technologies or who reveal great difficulties in their use. It must be ensured to those who do not have this possibility of use or to those who do not want it to maintain communication and notifications through the traditional route. The extension of accession to the service of electronic notifications to private public service providers is also, in our view, a relevant advantage. We therefore follow up on this proposal from the Government. However, we have doubts—and some of them have already been mentioned—and they have to do with, for example, the situation of cutting services and the difference between judicial notifications, which will not be covered by this measure, and the others, such as taxation. But it is important, above all, to ensure that the modernisation of technology is accompanied by the necessary means, both with regard to the entities involved and with regard to the citizens. in this sense, it would also be important to understand the costs resulting from the implementation of this measure, in particular with regard to the necessary changes in the network and computer system and the acquisition of computer applications. It is equally important to ensure that this technological modernization is accompanied by the modernisation of the laws. The search for solutions that respect inclusion must be part of the modernization of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u23	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u24	I will now finish, Mr President. A country cannot be modernised without combating exclusion and without ensuring that laws guarantee the principles of equal access and equal treatment for all citizens. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u25	Madam Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation, she has 1 minute, which was handed over by the Greens. Then you have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make brief statements. First of all, I would like to make it clear that all people, collective and singular, who are already or have been in law or practice for 10 years now or in law or practice, who are obliged to use the electronic mailbox are the only ones who will continue or maintain this obligation already existing and not created by this law. Secondly, I would also like to clarify that the fact that we mention that AMA (the Agency for Administrative Modernization) will be responsible for this service is simply a platform and not any other new structure to ensure this public mail service to all citizens and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u27	Mrs. Members, concluded the general discussion of the bill No 41/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), we will move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No 42 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Fernando Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law that I present to you today aims to regulate the fate of sperm, ovocytes, testicular tissue and cryopreserved ovarian tissue as part of the use of assisted medicinal procreation techniques (PMA), thus making the fourth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July. in the framework of the work carried out by the Government under the regulation of Law No 17 / 2016 of 20 June and, in particular, by the Regulatory Commission designated for this purpose, it was identified the importance of making this regulation, given that the increase in access to LDCs techniques through that law has expanded the scope of the beneficiaries of the techniques, causing, of course, an increase in cryopreservation without real benefit to users. Thus, since Law No 30 / 2006 of 26 July 2006 only provided for the destination of embryos which were not used, it is intended, through the proposed law that VV. For example, they will appreciate, avoid the endless preservation of spermatozoa, ovocytes, testicular tissue and ovarian tissue without their use or claim by their beneficiaries. And the same situation occurs in relation to cryopreserved embryos: if they have been preserved before the entry into force of Law No 30 / 2006 of 26 July, they may be thawed and disposed of by determination of the director of the assisted drug breeding centre. Through this proposal for a law, it is therefore envisaged that sperm, ovocytes, testicular tissue and ovarian tissue be collected and not used in the application of LDCs techniques and that they are cryopreserved within a maximum of 5 years, and that it is possible, in duly justified situations, at the request of the beneficiaries, to extend that period. During this period, they may be destroyed or donated for scientific research, if another destination is not given to them. The destination, for scientific research purposes, can only be verified by free, informed consent, expressly and in writing from the physician responsible for the original beneficiaries. After the expected deadlines, sperm, ovocytes, testicular tissue and ovarian tissue may be thawed and disposed of by determining the director of the centre of WFP. thus, it avoids an indefinite freezing, which becomes unsustainable and even immoral due to the requirement of unnecessary expenditure and public resources, which would be a more valuable to beneficiaries originating in or to other users of the SNS (National Health Service ). This bill was submitted to the opinion of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences and the National Council for Assisted Medicinal Products and, in the latter case, obtained the unanimous, favourable opinion of its members. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u29	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Bureau does not register. There's no time for much tactism and making us all wait. If there are no inscriptions, we will proceed to the next point. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, with the extension of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques by Law No. 17 / 2016 of 20 July, the destination of sperm, ovocytes, testicular tissue and cryopreserved ovarian tissue was soon regulated. It was quite enlightening the intervention of the Secretary of State and the Government thus comes with this fourth amendment to Law No. 32/2006, solving a serious, difficult and courageous problem and also prevented, in the future, from becoming the undesirable eternal preservation without them being used or claimed. This change was born from the relationship between knowledge and society. One way was made, Mr Secretary of State has already given the various opinions and options and, indeed, knowledge is not neutral. There is an option and this option has been taken. This is not therefore a mere technical procedure, it is a solution to the fate of reproductive cells. We therefore consider that with the addition of this article and with the amendments that the Secretary of State has already asked to list, that there is a destination for unused sperm and that destination, at the end of five years, has already been resolved. In fact, the increase of beneficiaries brought this legal void. It is also worth stressing — it is also important to emphasize — that, with the entry into force of Law No 17 / 2016, a legal void has been created, to which I refer, in respect of the embryos preserved before the Act 2006. Therefore, this amendment has also solved this problem, because these embryos have thus become in a situation of eternity for which this legislative initiative seeks a solution, so it is urgent that this initiative be adopted so that we can all benefit from the consequences of this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said, and I reiterate, that this is not just a technical procedure. Don't! It is also a question of the non-retrogression of fundamental rights, the question of the principle of non-discrimination and, above all, the happiness of the people concerned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u31	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health : It has already been in this legislature that this House of the Republic has legislated to extend the techniques of LDCs to all women and I wanted to begin by saying that it is proud to see this law already regulated and that today we live in a country that is more equal and that guarantees access to these techniques to all women not discriminated against by civil or sexual orientation. The Commission which has regulated the law has noted that the extension of beneficiaries, of beneficiaries in particular, can lead to an increase in cryopreservation of materials such as sperm, ovocytes, testicular tissue or ovarian tissue. Thus, the Government's diploma, as Mr. Secretary of State has well explained, attempts to establish in the law the destination to give this cryopreserved material so that it will not be forever and not be cryopreserved forever and without use, so the Government's proposal is that cryopreserved material can be only within a maximum of 5 years. The Left Block comprises the proposal and has, in principle, no opposition to it, provided that the material is never destroyed without information to the beneficiaries and that the cryopreservation period may be extended at the request of the beneficiaries. This is expected from the proposal and we think very well, because there are situations in which, for example, people in the face of a disease want to preserve their fertility and it is not to use in two, three or four years, but it is to keep the hypotheses open and therefore these possibilities must be maintained. There are, however, other conditions which, in this proposal for a law, are not yet foreseen or safeguarded and which seem essential to the Left Block to be discussed in the field of specialty, where amendments should be introduced, in particular the possibility of cryopreserved material not used may be made available not only to research but also to third parties. We know that the public gambling bank has a problem with access to these same games and here we can open the possibility of donation to third persons or other beneficiaries who need this material. And probably more important than this is the issue of the transitional standard, which imposes the destruction of cryopreserved material before 2006. It seems to us that, in the field of specialty, an amendment should be made so that this destruction is not made in a timely manner and the will of the beneficiaries who at the time cryopreserved the material. In other words, beneficiaries must always be informed and always take into account their will to, if they want to continue with cryopreserved material, do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u33	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u34	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, I would like to say that, in the field of expertise, we will have, I believe, space and terrain to introduce these amendments and deepen this discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u35	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government proposes, through this bill, the addition of a new article to the law regulating the use of LDCs techniques, basically stating the destination of reproductive tissues and cells and the destination of cryopreserved embryos prior to the entry into force of Law No 32 / 2006. The Government's justification is that the extension of the beneficiaries of LDC techniques, operated by Law No. 17 / 2016, will entail an increase in cryopreservation, which is why it is important to regulate the destination of such genetic materials. by the PSD, nothing will object to the announced wish. However, we must not fail to mention the enormous strangeness which this Government deserves, after having planned certain matters clearly relating to rights and guarantees through a diploma with appropriate regulatory hierarchy, to have come in December, by regulatory decree—it is said, of an administrative nature—and after having appointed a regulatory committee of Law No. 32/2006, which produced a preliminary draft decree which intended to regulate the whole Law No. 17 / 2016 — I repeat, the whole diploma— now said, only to deal with a partial matter, expounded on that preliminary draft, i.e. only Article 16. o -A, which is intended to adapt. Strange, say-CL-it-it's going! It is also excused, Mr Secretary of State, to the extent that the Government could have chosen to comply with what is contained in the law already adopted in this House, regulating all this matter by decree, as is the result of the said law of WFP, which in its current article 16. o, refer to your own diploma. And if the legislative act adopted had been a decree-law, you will know, as well as I, that there would always be the possibility of this being the subject of the proper control and supervision process by this House, in particular by means of the figure of parliamentary assessment in accordance with Article 169. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. After this mention, maybe the strangeness is no longer so great! But, Mr Secretary of State, the strangest remaining, the greatest inequity, is that, with these rules, private centres will, above all, win, although this may be true for the parties on the left and for the promoters of this initiative. The fact that I have just mentioned is that in certain circumstances the Government has been able to allow the destruction of embryos and reproductive cells by simple decisions of the directors of the centres of LDCs to be listed by the Secretary of State. Decision that the PSD considers that it should, as a rule and whenever possible, obtain the authorization of donors, subject to the penalty of violation of their rights and even of the rights of the child to be born. In fact, in this same sense, the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences was pronounced, when, in its opinion in this process, it did not recognize ethical support for the administrative legitimacy conferred for the destruction of this genetic material, as well as does not accept the Government, in this diploma, any suggestions that the National Council of Mediaally Assisted Processing issued on this bill. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD believes that this matter will even have to be very well thought out, because we are faced with ridicule — see! — to prohibit in SNS a couple of women from submitting simultaneously to LDC treatments, but if the same women are not married to each other already, or to establish, as is the case, the principle of "Uniformity of waiting times" when, at the same time, they are expected to be removed on the basis of "priorities established on the basis of objective criteria of clinical gravity". Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Secretary of State, with this PSD cannot agree. That is why I ask you, why does the Secretary of State still have time to answer, the following: can the Government already ensure that there will be no worsening of the waiting lists by means of the enlargement of the beneficiaries? How much will SNS spend on sending to private couples on a waiting list? And how much does it expect to increase such expenditure by sending all these new cases? There will be more investment in SNS, receiving replacement pregnancies from Portuguese and non-resident citizens, how does that seem to be intended? [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President José de Matos Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u37	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I must tell Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health that this whole process of regulation of the law, which extends the scope of beneficiaries of assisted reproductive techniques, has problems in form, has problems of content, has ethical problems, has legal problems, contrary to the opinion of specialists and, above all, has been done with total lack of transparency and political and democratic good faith. in fact, Mr Secretary of State, the Government wanted to regulate the latest amendments to the law of WFP at the top and dealt with this process at the top, because its intention — yes, of course! — fled to the scrutiny of Parliament and fled to the supervision of the President of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u40	... which is unacceptable in a matter as sensitive and as complex as this one — indeed, so sensitive and so complex that it has already deserved a veto from President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Otherwise, let's see: one month ago, the government introduced this bill to the Assembly of the Republic and called for its urgent agenda on 21 December, saying two things, both false: firstly, that it would be a very small procedural agreement to the law of the LDCs ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u41	Now...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u42	... second, which had been heard by the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences and the National Council for Assisted Drug Processing. The question is neither merely a procedural question nor those entities have been heard for the purpose of preparing the bill. The sensitive change that is literally hidden in the middle of the rules on destination to give excess reproductive cells from now on is an automatic mechanism for the destruction of reproductive cells and frozen excess embryos prior to the entry into force of the 2006 Act. The two opinions that the Government has ignored are clearly against the way in which the Government intends to automatically and administratively destroy surplus cells and embryos and even propose the elimination of this point of the bill. Otherwise, we see, as already mentioned, what the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences says: that the administrative legitimacy conferred for the destruction of reproductive cells and tissues containing them and also frozen embryos lacks ethical support because it does not consider the assumptions and the consents that were then established with donors and potential beneficiaries. And what does the National Council for the Treatment of Assisted Medicinal Products say? It says that this solution directly collides with the status in Article 12. that of the Civil Code, in which it is established that the law only provides for the future. Now, you have decided to ignore these opinions completely and these experts and have not wanted them to be heard either. But the government knows very well what it wants: certainly, it wants to run away from the parliamentary scrutiny and the President of the Republic. Imagine the coincidence: on 29 December, a regulatory decree came out that regulates in detail the extension of the techniques of LDCs to more beneficiaries. It deals with rights, it deals with freedoms, it deals with fundamental duties, but it uses a legal instrument that completely runs away from the scrutiny of the Assembly of the Republic and the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u43	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u44	The form of a regulatory decree does not even allow Parliament to require parliamentary approval or the President of the Republic to veto this diploma. That is why the form of decree-law was not used, as you initially had planned. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is a lamentable page in the functioning of the institutions, respect for law and respect for democracy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u45	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: First of all, I would like to say that we recognize the need to determine which destination to be given to sperm, ovocytes, testicular tissues and ovarian tissues, as in the past we recognize the need to be clear and transparent in the national legal framework what destination should be given to surplus embryos, which is already established in the law and on which this House of the Republic has also pronounced itself. We believe that here the legislative vacuum or omission is not positive and that, indeed, there is this need. We see that the solution that the Government has brought to the Assembly of the Republic is very similar to the solution that the Assembly of the Republic has found for the purpose of giving excess embryos. In any case, there are some aspects which, on our part, should deserve further deepening and even improvement in the formulation of the legal text and the law itself, so we believe that the debate in the field of specialty will be positive and will, of course, work on these matters. There have been issues that have been raised that, in our view, deserve further attention and that is why we will have the debate in the field of expertise to do so. We also recognize that we are talking about biological materials that are sensitive, that are ethically asking questions and that, of course, we should be careful about this. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about issues related to assisted drug procreation and I could not stop bringing here a concern of the Portuguese Communist Party on this matter. It is not a concern today, it is a concern that is already of the past and we have already put forward initiatives in this regard. In addition, in 2015 a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic on issues of accessibility to infertility treatments proposed by the CFP was adopted in which I put this issue of difficulties in access to treatment and assisted drug procreation techniques and talk about difficulties in access to public centers. It is from the public knowledge that there are waiting lists, it is from the public knowledge that there is a shortage of professionals in public centres, it is from the public knowledge that the network of public centres does not have a national coverage and in this resolution of the Assembly of the Republic a set of recommendations are made to the Government, in particular in order to resolve these problems. We believe that the Government, before the amendments which have recently been introduced into the law, should go towards their implementation: strengthening the professionals, strengthening the network of public centres, with a view to ensuring accessibility, with a view to combating waiting lists and also with a view to increasing.......................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u47	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u48	... this is also a positive aspect — the number of cycles for each of the beneficiaries. We believe that the government, before the law it is passed, should start a path in order to extend the answer, ensure accessibility and ensure that the law is effectively complied with for the citizens who fit and are covered by it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u49	To close the discussion on this point, on behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I take advantage of some clarifications and, of course, thank you for the questions that have been raised. I begin by replying to Mr. Member of the Left Block. It is true that, in the field of specialty, they may and should hear some experts about the destination to be given to the gamétes or embryos if they are not used for research purposes. What was evaluated in the discussion with the experts was that in many cases this was not possible, or because the donor had some conditions that prevented these gametes from being used in third parties—we are talking, for example, about cancer patients... Sometimes the quality of the material is not the most appropriate, we are talking about people who have difficulty in terms of quality of the type of game, fertility and fertility issues and, therefore, using them in third parties was not the best destination to give them. On the other hand, in relation to embryos and gametes that were frozen before 2006, at that time it was not mandatory to investigate many of the infections that are now that it is and therefore the quality, requirement and rigour that are necessary may not be the most appropriate. In any case, in the proposed law we submit to the House, the possibility of giving another destination not only that of scientific research, but indeed, in the debate in the specialty, can improve that respect. With regard to the question put by the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u51	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry, but you're going to have to shorten the answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u52	Mr President, thanking you, only two quick and clear notes. We are discussing a proposed amendment to the law made in 2006 which aims at the fate of sperm, ovocytes, testicular tissue and ovarian tissue, we are not discussing the law that was passed on June 20, 2016, nor the regulatory decree of it. We are discussing different things with regard to the approval.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u53	Different? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u54	One issue that is very relevant to us — that is the truth — is that of accessibility to the game bank. It is true that currently accessibility to the game bank is limited, it is true that, over the last four years, there has not been a serious investment in the game bank, but, still in January, will be issued an order in which the following will be established: additional collection sites, in addition to existing ones, in Porto, in Coimbra and in Lisbon ; provide specific funding for the game banks to increase their capacity; provide for an assessment of the benefits that donors themselves may have;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u55	Mr. Secretary of State, you're gonna have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u56	... and also propose a campaign to raise awareness among gamers. We want to increase accessibility to the game bank and we will do everything to make that happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u57	Mrs. Members, the general discussion of Bill No 42 / XIII ( 2 ) ended. a ), we move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 355 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Criminal liability regime for behaviors likely to affect the truth, loyalty and correctness of competition and its result in sports activity ( PSD ), 348 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August by strengthening the legal framework for the handling of sports competitions ( PS ) and 365 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 30 / 2015 of 22 April 2015, which establishes legislative measures aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of the fight against sport corruption ( CDS-PP ). To present the PSD bill, Mr. Pedro Pimpão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that a good way to start this year is to discuss diplomas that aim to strengthen/strengthen the Portuguese legal and sports ordination in the fight against sports corruption, because the sporting truth and the ethics of behaviors are values that must be permanently affirmed and strongly defended. We cannot keep our arms crossed in the face of the growing threats both to the level of the economic impact that sport has today in our society, or to the evolution of the information society itself, because the truth is that the sport phenomenon is constantly changing, such as the behaviors that want to profit illegally by changing or distorting sports competitions. In addition, there are today new forms of adulteration of the increasingly sophisticated sports competition, with international character and fertile ground for their appropriation for organized crime. in this context, having come back a decade on the last major legislative amendment with Law No. 50 / 2007, it becomes necessary and urgent to update the sanctioning framework of the crimes of corruption of the sports sector. Responsibly, the sports agents, and with the main focus on the Portuguese Football Federation, have already responded to this reality: they presented proposals to each of the parliamentary groups. We agree with these proposals and we wanted here to give due recognition to the commitment, dedication and priority that the Portuguese Football Federation has put in the fight against corruption. But we are not happy with these proposals, we want to go even further. We therefore believe that it is time to innovate, equipping the penalization of those who corrupt those who are corrupted, considering the characteristics of sport itself. That is why we propose that the criminal frameworks of the crimes of active corruption and passive corruption, as well as of the crime of trafficking in influence, be aggravated. We believe that it is time to innovate also in criminal persecution for improper supply or reception, regardless of the counterparty of counterfeiting of results, for the gross violation that represents ethical values and fair play, so necessary to the confidence and good health of sports competitions. It is also necessary to encourage the collection of evidence and therefore we agree that those contributing to this collection must be awarded, that the goods and amounts involved in the practice of these crimes be seized and lost in favour of the State and that they do not benefit the offender and that, lastly, when the crime is committed by a director of a sporting entity, the respective body may be dissolved and returned to the partners the duty of choosing representatives with the smoothness of behaviour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u60	These are the proposals we make, because we believe that it is important for each one to make his contribution in this matter. As for the initiatives under discussion, either by the Socialist Party or by the CDS-PP, I would like to point out the following: three diplomas on this subject correspond to the importance of sport today in Portugal and the desire that we all have to combat anti-sport phenomena. We want to say here, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, that we will vote favourably for all bills and we must expect that the meeting of positions in the specialty, with various opinions and contributions, including sports agents, can prove innovative solutions to face a difficult phenomenon and with many vicissitudes. We also call for this process in the specialty to take place with the utmost urgency, given the recent and constant threats of these phenomena of corruption, around the same objective: the defense and safeguarding of the ethical and legal principles of sport in the closed fight to all phenomena of corruption and counterfeiting, in defense of the correction, loyalty and truth of sports competitions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u61	To present the PS bill, Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social and economic impact of the sport phenomenon is today unquestionable, raising special surveillance of anti-sport practices, whose risk seems to increase with globalisation. With this bill, the Socialist Party aims to strengthen the fight against adulteration of results, as one of the greatest threats facing sport today. It is important to deter such practices, sometimes associated with organized crime networks on a global scale, which should deserve a concerted response, both nationally and internationally, in view of the reality of the manipulation of sporting results and the risks that may bring to competition and to sports truth. We start from the contribution of different entities, especially the sports association movement, which includes the Portuguese Football Federation, warning the need to strengthen the existing legal framework to provide criminal accountability mechanisms for anti-sports behaviors that may distort the sport competition. This initiative implements the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August, with the aim of protecting the integrity of sport and sport ethics, in a legislative course that preceded the Council of Europe Convention itself on the Handling of Sports Competitions, addressing exactly the prevention, detection and sanction of the manipulation of sporting competitions and the promotion of national and international cooperation between the various entities involved. With this initiative, we highlight: the increase in penalties for crimes of passive and active corruption and trafficking in influence; the creation, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, of two new measures of cohesion, which add to the existing ones, allowing the provisional suspension of the participation of the sports agent in sport competition and, in the case of a legal person, the suspension of the allocation of subsidies, subsidies or incentives by the State, autonomous regions, autarchies or other public collective persons; the creation of the non-sporting agent scheme, which acts on sports agents who, by themselves or by means of an interposting person, make bets at the stake of luck or chance, in relation to the results of sporting events, in which they have direct or indirect participation. It should also be noted that this is an open proposal, which can certainly still have different contributions due to the reflection in the case of a specialist intervener in the process or, even, the analysis of the desired effectiveness. With this initiative, the Socialist Party intends to stress the need for intervention in the face of a present reality, exacerbating the penalties for crimes of passive corruption, active corruption and trafficking in influence, creating a new type of crime, anti-sporting betting, as well as two new coercion measures. This is a delicate, apparently consensual issue that should deserve us firmness, weighting, balance and convergence, focusing on the proposed goal: the prevention of behaviors likely to affect the correction, in an explicit fight against the manipulation of sports competitions. this Parliament should come out with a diploma that aims to dissuade and punish those responsible for the lack of truth, not forgetting the many thousands who in the most different settings work with loyalty for valuing sport also in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u63	To present the CDS-PP bill, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Sport has, on its basis, principles of loyalty, correction and indeed that are well before any economic impact that this practice has. Therefore, what is at the basis of the State's need to engage in legislation, to punish incorrect behaviors has to do with it exactly: to ensure that sports practice maintains its founding principles of truth, loyalty and ethics. We therefore believe that both the law of 2007 and the legislative development we are now making should never deviate from this foundation and, welcoming what has to do with the economic impact of sports activity, should maintain what is basic, that is, the ethical principles of sports practice. There is no sport without truth, there is no sport without results that are the consequence of sports practice and not the perversion of what is this sport practice and, therefore, who somehow interferes by altering what is this truth actually has to be punished. And punishment under sports regulations is not enough, it is essential that the State, which guarantees law, accepts these punishments and also turns them into punishments under criminal law. This is the case with what is already in the law that we are now changing, but we must recognize that there are several reasons why we should now make this amendment, and the first of all is that the criminal law itself has been reviewed and therefore does not make sense that, since there is a revision of the criminal law, there is no adequacy, in the sports field, to this revision of the criminal law. The second reason is that there is a sophistication of the practices of perversion of sports truth and it is essential that we also welcome ways to combat this sophistication. Then it is necessary to make law enforcement mechanisms effective. The guarantee of effectiveness is therefore also a reason. Another reason is that Parliament maintains its relationship with the sports agents and with those who best represent them, which are the federations representative of the sector or the trade unions representative of the sports agents, as is the case with the Trade Union of Professional Football Players and the Portuguese Football Federation, who have addressed this Parliament, asking Parliament to give a boost to punishment of this type of practice, so that sport punishment itself is also more effective. in this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP presents a project that, together with that of the PSD and PS and certainly with the ideas of the other parliamentary groups, which will also have them and will contribute to the debate in the specialty, will allow us to meet the one who is the common objective, which, as I began to say, is to maintain truth, loyalty and ethics in sport and, maintaining these principles, of course, we have no complex with the commercial phenomenon that develops there, which is also possible and will only be maintained if this ethics, this truth and this loyalty are assured. This is the guiding principle of our legislative initiative, that is the purpose of which we will go to the specialty, and of course approve all the other projects presented in this debate, because we believe that the broad debate and the hearing of all the entities involved will allow the conclusion of a satisfactory legislative process. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u65	For an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said here, sports practice is today, in the 21st century, a reality that goes beyond mere sports practice. It is important to highlight the division that exists and must exist between what is the sport exercise and what actually accompanies that same sports exercise, whether a transfer market or a betting market, or a whole social and economic market that is now linked to the sport phenomenon. But a comprehensive and inclusive look at what this phenomenon is today and to defend the sporting truth cannot hide these two realities: on the one hand, sport itself and its practice as a guarantor of well-being, exercise and healthy social practice and, on the other hand, understanding that globalisation, essentially in the 21st century, has brought to the country, Europe and the world a new reality linked to sports practices, including the practice and phenomenon of football, which today generates millions of euros annually, whether in transfers or in the betting market. in the sense of the Left Block, 10 years after the approval of Law No. 50 / 2007, it is important that we look again at the sanctioning framework and what represent today the manipulations of sports results and passive corruption or active corruption, to understand the evolution of this phenomenon after a decade and have the possibility here in the Assembly of the Republic, find more relevant and current answers to this reality and these problems. It is precisely in this sense that we will follow the initiatives now discussed and, of course, in the field of expertise, even with the hearings of the sector's organisations, we will be able, among all parliamentary groups, to find measures that respond to this need, that respond to these problems and, above all, to ensure that we also respond effectively to sports truth, which obviously ensures a social ethics essential to each practice, whether professional, sports or other. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u67	You now have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from our point of view, the legislative initiatives we are considering today go in the right direction, indeed, proposed and desired by several sports agents, notably by sports federations, such as the Portuguese Football Federation, which represents, as you know, sport with the most significant economic impact. In addition to the work carried out by the Council of Europe, it makes every sense that the Assembly of the Republic is dealing with this matter today, with the aim of improving the criminal legislation applicable to corruption in the sport phenomenon. Correction, loyalty and values that preside over a healthy sports practice are values in themselves. Sports agents who develop their actions with loyalty, correction and in obedience to ethical values deserve to have a guardianship of these values in their sports practice and who attend a sporting show, the spectators of a sports show, also have the right to have the modalities they appreciate develop in obedience to these values. Therefore, it will be said that we are faced with a sporting phenomenon and also that sport has its own sports justice — it is true that it has it — which only takes effect in the sports field. And what we're talking about today goes beyond that. In other words, criminal law is the last intervention ratio of the State. The question is whether it is justified and, from our point of view, of course, justified. It is justified not only because we are talking not only about the sports phenomenon itself but also about the use and manipulation of the sports phenomenon for acts of corruption, that is, for the enrichment of the offenders at the cost of counterfeiting results, at the expense of the manipulation of the sports phenomenon. That is what really deserves the protection of criminal law. Today we are talking about an industry that involves many millions, which involves amounts in some astronomical cases, we are talking and we have knowledge, at the international level, of the highest level of corruption phenomena, in the context of the sports phenomenon, which are highly worrying and, in this sense, there is a criminal frame that needs to improve, in order to prevent the counterfeiting of results, whether or not associated with sports betting, which is another phenomenon. That is to say, we have corruption phenomena in the context of the sports phenomenon, related to the counterfeiting of results, with a view to obtaining results conducive to financial revenues, but we also have another phenomenon, which is the association with sports betting, in which one wants to earn money precisely through the counterfeiting of results. There is, therefore, a matter which implies a stopped reflection and which implies, in fact, that the legislator deals with it and can improve the existing criminal framework for these cases. from our point of view, of course, there will be all the availability for approval of these initiatives in general and for collaboration in the work of the specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u69	For one last speech on this subject, Mr Pimpão has once again given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate in general — and we will have time to continue to discuss this issue — we must point out the great example that the Portuguese Parliament is giving today in such important matters as the fight against sports corruption. This is a great example that deserves attention because we all recognize the importance of this issue and we are all aligned with the aim of strengthening the Portuguese sports legal system with the necessary means and instruments so that this phenomenon does not spread into what is the truth of sports competitions. In addition to this consensus, we all recognize the urgency of acting and of Parliament, through its legislative effectiveness, to make its important contribution to effectively combating this phenomenon of sport corruption and avoiding these mechanisms...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u71	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u72	... who have grown those who are the highest values, those of loyalty, correction and sports truth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u73	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 355 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 348 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 365 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We move on to the fourth point of our agenda, the appreciation of draft resolutions Nos 546 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Promotes improved access to Portuguese courses abroad and promotes their pedagogical quality ( PS ), 388 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce the number of students per class in Portuguese courses abroad ( EPE ) ( BE ), 587 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Development of the Portuguese foreign education network ( PSD ) and 598 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government bet on an active, effective and comprehensive policy for the defence and projection of the Portuguese language ( CDS-PP ), in conjunction with the projects of lein. 267 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals the tip of Portuguese foreign education ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August ) ( PCP ) and 271 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revokes the tip of Portuguese education abroad and establishes the free education manuals in the EPE courses ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August) ( BE ). To begin the debate, Mr Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - firstly, let me begin by welcoming all the parties for the diplomas they present here today for discussion, which well demonstrates the central importance of the Portuguese language as a privileged means of affirmation of our country in the world. Promoting and valuing the Portuguese language in all its dimensions, from Portuguese teaching abroad to its use as a working language in international organizations, passing through universities, is a true national design. Its appreciation and promotion go through a permanent effort to facilitate students' access to learning, improve their quality and educational requirements with effective materials and content, provide solid training to teachers and have a motivated and committed teaching community. From that point on, the fact that the Portuguese language has a global projection obliges us to move away from the horizon the paths that lead it to linguistic ghettos, based on old motivations, based on a mythical hope of returning to the country. in the era of globalization, the Portuguese language can only be considered as a language for the world, a language that opens horizons and not that closes them. And it is as important to value Portuguese as a foreign language, as it is important to value it as a language of inheritance or mother tongue or professional value. Wherever it is, it is necessary to ensure that its transmission is made as effectively as possible and that the Portuguese communities fully understand the importance of their language. The Portuguese language, its learning, taking into account its extremely varied contexts and teaching modalities, needs today to be seen as a professional triumph, as a language of culture and science, diplomacy and history, as a language of the rich universe of the Lusophony. Above all, you need to have the same ambition as English or Spanish and be a clear value for all of your speakers, regardless of their origin. It is not expected that within thirty years it will be spoken by nearly 390 million people on every continent. Portuguese teaching abroad is now beginning to come out of a period of great difficulties, with gross cuts in the number of teachers, reduction in the number of students and demotiveization of teachers due to the degradation of working conditions. There was even some disappointment about the crucial and priority effort to promote the integration of Portuguese courses into official education in host countries. There is no financial crisis that can justify a lack of political vision or the wrong options. The teaching of Portuguese does not only need to be strengthened and improve its pedagogical quality, it also needs recognition and stability, as it has sought to build with the various agreements with teachers' unions, both in financial matters and in terms of working conditions. It needs innovation, as it is intended with the platform to teach Portuguese at a distance, which will soon be launched, mainly to arrive at the new emigration, which has had an overwhelming increase in recent years. It needs to go further, as it is seen with the opening of new courses and good prospects for valorization in France, it needs to open new horizons, as now happens with the agreement reached for the training of Portuguese teachers in Venezuela and that will allow the number of teachers to double. Thus, it is much more what is now being done than most parties propose. We cannot, however, for now and unfortunately eliminate the tip, which will be re-equashed as soon as the financial conditions allow, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in the last budgetary debate, nor will the number of students be reduced from 12 to 8 in the more than 2750 existing courses, which would have irreparable financial costs. The Portuguese language needs to have ambition and it is fundamental that it begins immediately on the basis, that is, by the courses that are offered to the children of Portuguese residents abroad, which is also a way of telling them that the country counts with them for the affirmation of Portugal in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u75	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Government / CDS-PP has amended Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 in order to introduce the tip in Portuguese teaching abroad ( EPE). Currently, the tip is collected in Switzerland, Germany, the United Kingdom and in a part of Luxembourg. The introduction of the tip occurred at a time when, under the PSD/CDS-PP government policy, many Portuguese were forced to emigrate because they were neither present nor future. at the same time as this happened, PSD and CDS-PP introduced the tip and reduced the EPE network. Since the PSD/CDS-PP government introduced the tip, that the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party has been beaten by its repeal, not only with legislative initiatives such as this but also in the context of the State Budget, as recently happened and that once again has been rejected by PS, PSD and CDS. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u77	The introduction of the tip not only ignores constitutional provisions, which point to the freeness of teaching, but also treats the Portuguese who reside outside the country in a discriminatory and unjust way. EPE students, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they are the only Portuguese who pay the tip for the frequency of basic and secondary education. The tip has been a barrier to the frequency of teaching. See the official data, ladies and gentlemen. The immigration report, now delivered to the Assembly of the Republic, shows a reduction: 2012, 159 682 students; 2015, 157 586 students. But it is not only the number of students who have decreased, it has also reduced the number of teachers. See the same period: 2012, 381 teachers; 2015, 314 teachers. The tip has deserved in the past, and still deserves today, a challenge by the communities, the associations of parents and the Council of the Portuguese Communities (CCP) and that is why, once again, and in coherence with what we have defended and will continue to defend, we present this bill. The changes in the EPE were not only at the tip level, but also at the network level, at the teachers' work. Today, in addition to the PCP bill, other initiatives are under discussion, and I will just highlight here the initiatives of the PSD and the CDS that, in addition to many trivialities and in an attempt to whiten out what their policy for this EPE is, also pursue the path of privatization and deresponsibility of the State to ensure a constitutional right. And, just see, the PSD now proposes exactly the opposite of what it has done in the past four years: the enlargement of the network. Look at that! Hypocrisy, Mrs. PSD Members! [[PSD protests.]] But we, who stand for enlargement in the past, continue to defend enlargement in the present. More: we say that it is actually necessary to reverse the policy that PSD and CDS-PP have made. And that is why we say that we need to make a clear bet in the teaching of Portuguese, passing not only by the revocation of the tip but also by the appreciation of teachers and the conditions of teaching and learning. This is the way that must be pursued. That is why we are going to be beaten and that is what we are going to work on. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Domicília Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese teaching abroad, EPE, was created to ensure that the children of Portuguese citizens find or reside abroad the teaching of Portuguese language and access to Portuguese culture. It recognises, however, two distinct areas of learning: the aspect « English mother tongue and second language or inheritance language» and the aspect « Portuguese as a foreign language». There were a series of appeals to emigration by the previous government : Passos Coelho invited teachers not to look at the entire Portuguese language market and to find an alternative there, such as in Angola or Brazil ; former Secretary of State of Sport and Youth invited young people to leave their comfort zone and go beyond our borders; Miguel Relvas considered that this extraordinarily well-prepared generation, in which Portugal invested much, would not find a solution in Portugal today for their active life. however, as these well-prepared Portuguese were advancing, beyond our borders, away from their family and friends, the borders were sinking, particularly in contact with Portuguese language and culture, as were scarce opportunities for Portuguese teachers in such "Portuguese language market" proclaimed by Passos Coelho. It was also the PSD/CDS government that removed about 9000 Portuguese students and several dozen teachers, with the implementation of a tip or 'frequency rate', the pretext of paying school textbooks and a certification that does not have practical application. however, the current government has not broken, as we would like, the legacy foreign policy line of the PSD/CDS government and continues to insist on putting the emphasis on promoting language abroad and Portuguese teaching abroad based on payment of a tip. On the other hand, the presence of the Camões, IP, and partnerships for the teaching of Portuguese and the dissemination of Portuguese language and culture in countries integrated into the Community of the Portuguese-speaking Countries, CPLP — the case of Mozambique or Cape Verde, which announced that it would teach Portuguese as a foreign language already in the coming academic year—, countries that by the absence of language barriers have been preferred destinations for emigration and fixing Portuguese companies, has not existed. The Left Block considers this additional wager to be important in the teaching of language to foreigners. however, it considers that the constitutional obligation to provide a quality teaching of Portuguese to the children and daughters of our emigrants, who currently account for more than 20% of the population living in the country, must be met. It is in this sense that it proposes to end the tip, maintaining the freeness of school textbooks, which are, in fact, being distributed to Portuguese students living in national territory. It also recommends that the Government reduce the number of pupils per class in order to avoid the accumulation of students at the same level, school years and very varied ages, preventing the necessary conditions for teaching abroad. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u80	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Cesario.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have great respect for the parliamentary groups and for the honourable Members. Members of the Left Block and the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u82	It was also good I didn't have it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u83	...but I cannot but deeply regret the demagogy exercise that has just been done in this House. [[All right!]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u84	You have negotiated with the Socialist Party a government agreement where you have given priority to the matters you understood, for the development of the policies you understood, but have not included in this agreement these issues of elimination of propines, the reduction of the number of students per class, all that you had to do with the Portuguese communities, and now come to talk about the PSD/CDS-PP government. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, look at yourselves! The responsibility of not being eliminated today is yours! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u85	That is what you are going to have to answer to the voters. [[PSD applause.]] The gentlemen. Members of the Communist Party and the Left Block are turning their backs on this conservative trend that they do not release themselves. Let's get out of here! Look forward! Be progressive! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u86	We are not inconsistent with what we defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u87	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u88	Today, in this House, we are presenting a draft resolution, whose aim is, exactly, in line with what we have done in the past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u89	So you cut the network down and now you say that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u90	...put the Assembly to discuss the fundamental issues of Portuguese education abroad. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u91	Of course, the issues of its quality, its enlargement and how to make such enlargement. We took Portuguese teaching abroad out of Europe, to many countries where it did not exist: Australia, Venezuela...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u92	Under what conditions?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u93	It is about following up, exactly, on that same project. But on the other hand, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to take account of the need to innovate. And in this respect we have many points on which we agree with the current Government of the Socialist Party. The extension of the Portuguese school network abroad, of course, is a matter in which we all have to engage in a coherent and consensual manner. We propose that there be a Portuguese school, at least in each luxophone country and with the main Portuguese communities in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u94	Private!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u95	We propose, in particular, that there be a specialisation of teachers working in this teaching sector and that the use of audiovisual media, distance learning and digital media should be made without questioning the physical presence indispensable for the pedagogical process and teaching. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u96	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese language and teaching policy abroad deserves discussion, debate and political awareness of its relevance. We have therefore recorded and congratulated all the legislative initiatives that have been presented, underlining...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u98	Are you going to vote in favour, honourable Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u99	Mrs Carla Cruz, I listened carefully to you if you did the same to me, I would thank you. As I said, we noted and welcomed the presentation of these initiatives, beginning with the emphasis that, for the CDS, the Portuguese language is an essential strategic option that should not be reduced only to Portuguese teaching abroad. And it is precisely because we recognize that language policy is far from reaching its maximum potential or even to deserve the place of prestige for us to present the draft resolution, which, as the name indicates, recommends to the Government that it bet on an active, effective and comprehensive policy of defence and projection of the Portuguese language.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u101	An active, effective and comprehensive policy translates firstly into a political opportunity for the short and medium-term to intensify diplomatic efforts to achieve the goal of making Portuguese an official language of the United Nations. The recent election of Eng.António Guterres as Secretary-General of the United Nations enables us to meet this objective with confidence. There is, on the part of the Government, commitment, dedication and ambition to transform Portuguese into the seventh official language of the UN. An active, effective and comprehensive policy means, secondly, an economic dimension, giving greater economic substrate to the Portuguese language and promoting cooperation with Portuguese-speaking countries in science, health, technology, energy and many other sectors of activity. And finally, an active, effective and comprehensive policy means strengthening the Portuguese teaching network abroad, valuing virtual space as a platform for distance learning, widespread for foreign students and also for Portuguese and Luso-descendant students, and betting, Mrs and Mrs. Members, in the continuing training of teachers, either on a distance basis or on a face-to-face basis. I would like to conclude, Mr. President, with two final references to the texts presented by the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. As for the projects of the Left Block and PCP, we reaffirm what we have already had the opportunity to mention: the CDS believes that the adoption of the tip has made Portuguese teaching abroad more professional, more curricular, more demanding and more valid. Freeness is not a place, but the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party do not want to know anything about it, nor even that freeness leads to the failure of the entire Portuguese teaching network abroad. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party project, in addition to presenting an adulterated version of the reality legitimized by the previous government and being harmless from the point of view of its resolution, raises a huge perplexity that must be pointed out. After we had been for more than half a legislature listening to the Socialist Party announcing, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities, the destruction of the EPE, saying that the adoption of propines was a mistake, it was a discrimination, and after we heard, even Mr. Paulo Pisco reaffirming this disagreement already in this legislature, it does not cease to be extraordinary, Mr. President, that now not a single line says about the revocation of the propina. It's extraordinary! It is a sign of the political irrelevance given to this matter by the PS bench! It is a sign of the political irrelevance given to this matter by the PS Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u103	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u104	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that it is a real exercise of hypocrisy and disability. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u105	For an intervention, Mrs Eugénia Duarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to ask if my brief passage through the Assembly of the Republic coincided with this important debate on a matter so dear to the thousands of my fellows who earn their lives a little around the world. I am elected by one of the Portuguese regions most marked by the migration phenomenon and the truth is that a large part of our local economy depends exactly on the contribution of so many immigrants and their descendants who proudly continue to be so linked to their origins. This is the case in Satão, Viseu and many other regions of the country. So I am very sensitive to the relationship we have with this extraordinary universe of people. I know well how important it is for them to learn Portuguese and access to our culture, particularly from their descendants. However, we must not forget that what we owe them requires us to perform a quality and dignity service at the best we do here. That is exactly what we coherently defend in the draft resolution we put to the consideration of this House today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u108	We defend measures that promote the quality of Portuguese education abroad, placing on the demand, rigor, proximity and, as far as possible, the elimination of discrimination among the most diverse communities. It will be on this line that we will continue our action in this Parliament throughout this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u109	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr José Césário, a stranger who, more than a year after this Parliamentary solution has been found, has not yet realized what has happened. There are subjects in which we have agreed — they are signed, they are public and so you can consult them on the Internet, they are available —... [[PSD protests.]] ...and there are materials where there was no agreement and where we kept our face. Do you understand now? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] with regard to Portuguese teaching abroad, the Left Block does not agree with the PSD, nor with the CDS, which had policies that were not even conservative, were an attack on Portuguese teaching abroad, an attack on our communities, an attack on the children and daughters of our emigrants. And that attack is in the hands of the PSD and the CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That the PS doesn't want to break up with this attack, it's his responsibility, but he doesn't have our agreement. We will see how PSD votes for the Left Block proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u111	Let's vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u112	We'll see how you vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u113	It's against!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u114	We will see how the CDS votes and then we will see who is next to Portuguese teaching abroad and who, in fact, has only demagogy and hypocrisy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u115	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of draft resolutions Nos 546 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 388 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 587 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 598 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and of the projects of lein.os 267 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 271 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), we will proceed to the discussion of draft resolutions 427 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to update the Special Realisation Programme ( PER ) ( BE ), 597 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an evaluation of the Special Realisation Programme ( PER ) and consider the introduction of amendments to the scheme in order to update it in order to adapt it to the needs of the current family aggregates by promoting the rehabilitation of buildings ( CDS-PP ), 599 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the national census of all situations in Portugal which are in need of reallocation, in conjunction with local authorities, and develop a new resettlement programme ( PSD ) and 600 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures for the suspension of demolition and disposals without alternative, updating housing needs and ensuring the right to adequate housing and social protection ( PCP ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block proposes the updating of the Special Programme for Realisation, known as PER, which was an important initiative aimed at eradicating degraded neighbourhoods in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. Some 17 000 social housing units were built following census processes carried out for this specific case of PER. However, the process is not closed. in the last decade, there has been a huge disinvestment in terms of offer of social housing, particularly with regard to housing for reallocations. Let us be clear about this! Unfortunately, in a country with such a high poverty rate, we have returned to the supply of public housing, although in our country only about 2 % of the housing for rent is social housing, one of the lowest proportions in Europe. The IHRU, the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, which is not even the largest entity offering social housing, will have about 6,000 families in need on a waiting list. These families wait for about two years, on average, to obtain a home, but in Lisbon and Porto, they wait for seven years. Also serious is the situation in several degraded districts in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. In the face of the down-to-date census carried out within the framework of the PER, there are dwellings to be demolished, people to be cleared without providing alternative solutions, without reallocation or any social support guaranteeing access to a decent and appropriate housing. There can be no contemporaneous situation. Housing is a constitutionally protected social right, it is an elementary human right. To claim that people with economic needs have access to housing through the lease market is, in fact, to abandon these people, to protect them, to place them in absolute precariousness and to call into question a human right, as was also mentioned by the rapporteur of the United Nations for condign housing, who has visited our country very recently. This rapporteur from the United Nations recommended that the Government carry out a study to assess this situation and take steps to increase the supply of social housing. Earlier, Mr. Ombudsman, in August 2016, asked to address the Government and to recommend, in the context of the situation that was taking place in various districts in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, that legislative measures should be taken to revise the PER so that an instrument capable of resolving the situation could be achieved. Having returned for more than two years, the PER is still not fully implemented, with the serious social consequences that such a delay implies — in the words of the Ombudsman, which suggests, including the adoption of new forms of census. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u117	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u118	The package of draft resolutions that has arrived at the plenary today shows that there is a clear majority to deal with this problem. I would risk even saying that there is some consensus around this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u119	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u120	I'm done now, Mr. President. The first decision that must be taken urgently is to prevent or suspend demolition, waste, until, in fact, there are concrete measures to ensure social housing for these people who need it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u121	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Special Relocation Program created 23 years ago aimed at eradicating existing barracks in the municipalities of the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto. For this purpose, this instrument created financial conditions for the municipalities for the construction, acquisition or lease of fires intended for the reallocation of household aggregates resident in these same barracks. After 23 years since its creation, although the PER has solved numerous situations related to precarious housing and the eradication of barracks, the fact is that they persist in several councils, particularly in the Amadora council, many problems that demand urgent solutions and adapted to the current reality, which is quite different from that which existed 23 years ago. Last August, Mr Justice recommended that the Government should review the PER, as it considers it to be outdated, and proposed a number of measures aimed at giving a commensurate response to the people involved, proposed by the CDS. The former Government has introduced profound reforms in housing policies both at the level of the lease regime and at the level of rehabilitation, as well as in the social lease market and in access to social housing. It also consisted of the last electoral programme of the PSD/CDS coalition the creation of programmes to eradicate the nuclei of precarious housing to promote the right to a decent housing for all Portuguese, favouring reallocation solutions based on the rehabilitation of buildings and the conversion of degraded urban areas to the detriment of solutions related to new constructions. For all this, the CDS consistently advocates the urgent need to introduce changes to the PER in order to undertake new forms of census that allow for condigenous solutions for residents excluded from the initial census, paying particular attention to the aggregates made up of children, elderly people and citizens with disabilities. We also believe that a social protection model based on income allowance should be implemented to support the most vulnerable tenants, including the elderly and disabled citizens. Finally, we advocate that solutions and resettlement programmes are preferred based on the rehabilitation of buildings and on the conversion of degraded urban areas to the detriment of solutions that promote new constructions. For all this, we are presenting today a draft resolution recommending that the Government introduce amendments to the PER to make it appropriate to current realities and to consider the guidelines and solutions I have just mentioned. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u123	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, what is being discussed today in this House is the right of all families to a decent home. And, justice is done, there is no one in this House who does not subscribe to the need to once and for all eradicate the serious housing shortage that still persists, as there is no one in this House who does not want to work for this purpose. What is missing is a clear perception of what is at stake. Having said this, it seems decisive to us to clarify that for the PSD there are principles that do not abdicate: the principle of equal treatment, not to legislate in a case-by-case manner to resolve punctual situations and respect for the autonomy of the local power.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u126	We understand and defend that the country needs a consistent, coordinated and consistent strategy. What the country does not need is accumulating measures. And if it is true that the PER represented a huge boost in improving the living conditions of thousands of families, it is no less true that it has become obsolete, ineffective and partial. It has become obsolete because it does not foresee the solution of the various housing problems that are under discussion today; it is ineffective because it no longer has money, nor dynamic; and partial because the problems of realisation in Portugal are not reduced to the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u129	We recognize, in fact, that the Special Relocation Programme has made its way and that it was interrupted in practice in 2009 when there was no money left to continue its implementation. But today, we understand that this program is not even up-to-date, and the first reason lies in its genesis: it was directed to the eradication of barracks and only in the two metropolitan areas. Question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, how can you update the PER in the case of Vale de Chícharos in the Sixal if the Chamber chose to leave out the registration of the PER an entire community living in harrowed buildings? [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u130	How can we update PER if this program says nothing about the so-called « islands », a serious problem in municipalities such as Porto, Gaia, Matosinhos, Maia or Gondomar? [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u131	How can we be here talking about half a dozen situations in Amadora, when there are over 2,000 families of Gypsy ethnicity living in nuclei of houses haunted throughout the country? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the update of PER as it was defended today demonstrates, in our view, a reduction in vision, designed to solve the housing problems of many neighborhoods of the municipality of Amadora. But the council of Amadora, with isolated cases, such as the 6th of May, which have come to the public, cannot go forward to other far more serious realities. For the PSD there are no municipalities of first or second, there are no more important or priority neighborhoods than others, only because they make more noise in social communication. More: For PSD, to be against demolition is to be consistent with the traffic of barracks that everyone knows is happening, by the hand of a set of opportunists who rent them for several hundred euros. [[Yeah, all right! Unfortunately, that's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u132	in this matter, to be silent is to act; to close the eyes is to encourage. [[Unfortunately, that's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we can be proud of having succeeded in eliminating a huge spot of huts in Portugal. There have been over 70 000 families who have benefited from resettlement programmes, but now we need a new resettlement programme, and that is our proposal. In other words, what we have seen here today is a new solution involving the State and local authorities, preceded by a detailed national census of all situations that do not have a reallocation, is a duly scheduled programme, with corresponding cost estimates and a secured financing model. It's in this sense that we all have to work... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u134	... and that is why I cannot finish without making a reference to the fact that this Government agrees with this proposal, as was communicated yesterday to Lusa, opening doors for serious and joint work on this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u135	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would first of all like to greet the residents of the 6th of May, in Amadora, who are today accompanying this discussion, with the concern of their lives. Mrs. PSD's deputy, what's at stake is the life of those people, it's nothing else that's being discussed here today. [[Exactly!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u137	For this reason, the discussion we are discussing here—and, Mrs Emília Santos, I am sure that I have read the draft resolution of the CFP—has national proposals, and well, because the problems of housing in this country, unfortunately, extravagant, and much, the problems of the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto. Open... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u138	That is why the proposals we put forward are going to do this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u139	The gentlemen have found out about that now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u140	But there are urgent and emerging situations and the 6th of May in Amadora is an urgent situation that needs to be answered, because the families of the 6th of May have been subjected to unaltered evictions and demolition, and pensions for 15 days and centres for homeless are no alternative. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u141	These people have the right to respect for their dignity and that is what we are discussing today: dignity! For this reason, because housing is not a business, this discussion aims to respond to a right that is enshrined in our Constitution and for which the State and successive governments have specific responsibilities. It is obvious that the Special Programme for Relocation had an important role in responding to thousands of families, but it is insufficient and disproportionate to date, because it overburdened the authorities with a task that was not solely theirs and for which the central State has an obligation to finance, immediate and decisive. So, the proposal we bring here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is first of all that the end of demolition and clearance is ensured without an alternative and that fundamental human rights are guaranteed. They are families with elderly, with children, with cancer patients, who need a housing response and social protection. The issues we are discussing here are of two dimensions: first, the right to housing and, second, the right to social protection. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u142	We therefore propose that a permanent team be set up to monitor the families that are covered and should be integrated into the special resettlement plan, that this team integrate members of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute, who have not responded to these people, social security, authorities and so on, Mr President. Members, residents, so that they too may be called to participate in the follow-up to these situations. We also propose that this team make and present to the Assembly of the Republic a report on the updating of PER, on the socio-economic characterization of the family members involved and on the monitoring of the social situation of these families. Today we are discussing fundamental human rights issues, and this is a commitment from which the CFP will never give up. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u143	I now give the floor to Mrs Helena Roseta on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome all the parliamentary groups that have put forward initiatives on this subject. Of course, having different views of priorities and how to respond to the need, one thing is certain: of all parliamentary groups we have heard the urgency of a concrete response to families who do not have access to a decent housing in Portugal. And this unanimity is essential for us to build a dignified solution, which is not just a solution for a council, which has a national perspective. Mrs. However, as Mrs Rita Rato has just said, there are pressing situations that have been brought to the Assembly of the Republic. And I wanted to testify here to the whole House that our working group, within 11th. the Parliamentary Commission, has already received the residents of the 6th of May - in fact, some of them are attending this discussion - and will shortly hear the President of the Chamber of Amateurs, the IHRU and the Institute of Social Security. We cannot replace the government or the authorities, as is clear, but we can, and we must, accompany the families, when they are in a situation of great distress, and seek concrete solutions. With regard to the draft resolutions that have been tabled, I believe that there are conditions for us, within committee, to be able to merge these texts, that each one of us looks at this merger with what most important has led to the discussion, so that we can have a position of the Assembly of the Republic with a very important political force. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, more than a mere draft resolution that recommends to the Government a number of inquiries, we need to build a national resettlement programme, which currently does not exist... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u145	I said 'national'! And we have to respond to the families for which there is no answer right now. So it's a very big effort. from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, I would remind you that in this House of the Republic, the Government has committed itself to the Government Programme and to the adoption of the Great Options, which clearly say that it is necessary to conclude the PER, that it is necessary to resume the PER Families, that it is necessary to create a similar programme for the degraded edificate, that it is necessary to rehabilitate devolved buildings for social housing purposes and that it is necessary to create, through social security, in conjunction with the authorities, a decentralized service for financial, legal and social support to families in a dramatic situation of imminent or already consumed house loss. This is the government's commitment, this is not yet done, and that is what we must demand, on behalf of the right to housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u146	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the conclusion of this debate we will not fail to mention that the parliamentary groups, and I believe that they have decided to put forward proposals giving shape to what is their obligation in this Parliament and in representative democracy. But I would like to welcome the decisive and courageous action of the residents of the 6th of May who, having addressed the Assembly of the Republic under very difficult conditions, have made participatory democracy a decisive element for all parties to take action in this regard. It was the participation of people in dramatic living conditions that achieved and forced the Assembly of the Republic to take this position. The CFP wants to welcome this because this will be crucial for the fight, which will have to continue, for the right to housing is commensurate to all citizens. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u148	Mrs. Members, we conclude the assessment of draft resolutions 427 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 597 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 599 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 600 / XIII ( 2. ( a). the following point from our agenda today are presented in the motions for resolutions 26 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the British Virgin Islands on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 5 October 2010, 27 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Turkish and Caicos Islands on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 21 December 2010, 28 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the States of Guernsey on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 9 July 2010, 30 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the amendment to Article 8. the and other amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court on the crime of aggression adopted at the Review Conference in Kampala on 31 May 2010, 31 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the amendment to Article 124. the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal, adopted in The Hague, on 26 November 2015, 33 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and Belize on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 22 October 2010, and 34 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Federation of St.Cristovão and Neves on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in Bassetere, on 29 July 2010. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as for this point there is no time for debate, we are going to start the voting period. I request the services to operate the electronic system for verification of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records the presence of 198 Mrs. Members of the PSD Ángela Guerra, Berta Cabral, Emília Santos, Luís Campos Ferreira and Sérgio Azevedo, the PS Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Ivan Gonçalves, José Miguel Medeiros and Paulo Trigo Pereira, the CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia and the PCP Member Rita Rato, which makes 209 presences, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. We shall start the votes by voting 187 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Joaquim Maria Fernandes Marques ( PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u149	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last December 22, 2016, Joaquim Maria Fernandes Marques. Bachelor of Law, Joaquim Maria Fernandes Marques served as Secretary of State for Labour, in the XIII Constitutional Government, and as Secretary of State for Employment and Vocational Training, in the X Constitutional Government. He was elected to the Assembly of the Republic by the Democratic Social Party in the IV, V and VI legislatures, acting as Vice-President of the PSD Parliamentary Group. He presided over the Foundation of Inatel in the 1990s and was president of the extinct Board of Freguesia of São João de Brito, in Lisbon, between 2001 and 2013, standing as author in that municipality. In 2013 he was elected member of the Lisbon Municipal Assembly, a term that unfortunately did not end. for its recognized dedication to the public case, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Joaquim Maria Fernandes Marques and sends to the family the most felt condolences».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u150	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 189 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of José Augusto da Silva Marques ( PSD and 1 PS Member ), who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u151	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge of the death of José Augusto da Silva Marques, on December 25, 2016, at 78 years of age. José Augusto da Silva Marques was born on November 7, 1938, being natural of the Cruz da Légua, municipality of Porto de Mós, where he began to be an author for four years, from 1976 to 1979, performing the functions of President of the City Hall of Porto de Mós. José Augusto da Silva Marques was an important and outstanding figure in Portuguese political life, whose memory matters to honor. Silva Marques will remain his name forever associated with the Leiria region, the result of his work with civil society, in the performance of the functions of Civil Governor of the Leiria district, and also at the political-party level, in the consolidation of social-democracy in the Leiria region, as President of the District Political Committee of Leiria PSD. José Silva Marques will forever be remembered as a man of principles and values, who always defended what he believed in, being a passionate for the public cause and an intransigent defender of the national interest. His whole life fought against the dictatorship, initially as a framework of the Portuguese Communist Party, from which he withdrew even before 25 April 1974, having subsequently acceded to the Social Democratic Party. His experience in hiding inspired a book, Reports of Clandestinity — The PCP seen inside, published in 1976, which, over 300 pages, told how his accession to the party was, how he worked underground and finally broke up. José Augusto da Silva Marques, a man of incomparable human qualities, who has always been in politics with great conviction and seriousness, was elected PSD member by the Leiria circle, a position which occupied from 1980 to 1999, and has played with undeniable elevation the role of President of the PSD Parliamentary Group. It is therefore sad that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, presents its heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of José Augusto da Silva Marques, paying tribute to his memory, work and dedication for the consolidation of our democracy».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u152	I want to personally associate with these homages. I welcome the speeches of these two former Members who have contributed greatly to the encouragement and deepening of the debate in this House. Mrs. Members, let us vote No 189 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] With regard to the following votes, there is agreement to read only their titles and to be voted immediately. So be it, ladies. Members, let us begin by voting on vote No 185 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the announcement by the North Korean regime of the strengthening of the nuclear programme and carrying out the testing of the launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens' abstention.]] [[On the first day of 2017, the North Korean regime announced the intention to test an intercontinental ballistic missile in a flagrant violation of its international obligations under the various UN Security Council resolutions. This announcement is as disturbing as alarming. Of course, because since 2006 Pyongyang has intensified nuclear testing and multiple ballistic missile launches, fuelling regional and global mistrust and insecurity. In the last year, North Korea has carried out a series of military tests, unprecedented in the past, which have merited the single condemnation of the international community, including Russia and China. This is once again a serious act of provocation against the international community and a blatant confrontation with the resolutions of the UN Security Council, in particular resolutions 1718, 1874 and 2087, which exacerbate the blockade of the channels of communication and dialogue with the international community, particularly in the context of the Six Talks. In this sense, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its condemnation of the escalation threatening international security led by North Korea, the continuation of its nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles programmes and the serious violation of international law, stressing the importance of the return to dialogue with the international community.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u153	Let us now proceed to the vote on vote No 190 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Of condemnation and concern for the intention to carry out testing of an intercontinental ballistic missile announced by North Korea ( BE and PS ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the CFP.]] [[It is as follows: North Korea announced the intention to carry out new tests with intercontinental ballistic missiles. This is another intention that cannot pass without condemnation, which accentuates regional tensions and underlines the danger of an arms race. The growth of the arms race has been real in recent years. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (IPPRI), the world armament market increased by 14% between 2011 and 2015. In 2016, over $80 billion was mobilized for the arms business worldwide. In this context, the major global sellers are the United States, with almost half of the sales, France, Russia and China. The danger of the existence and proliferation of nuclear weapons is permanent and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is yet to be implemented. In fact, the path followed has been the opposite, which raises serious concerns, so all these events cannot go without condemnation. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses great concern and condemns the claim to conduct intercontinental ballistic missile tests by North Korea, rejects armamentist policy and affirms the need for a global commitment to nuclear disarmament.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u154	We turn to the vote on vote No 193 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condensation of the escalation of tension on the Korean peninsula ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PS Miranda Calha, Wanda Guimarães and Vitalino Canas.]] [[It is as follows: The tense situation on the Korean peninsula has experienced new developments with the announcement of the installation of the United States anti-missile system in the Republic of Korea and the latest announcement of the strengthening of the nuclear programme and of a test to launch an intercontinental ballistic missile by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The current situation on the Korean peninsula has historical roots, particularly in the Korean War and the unilateral division of this country imposed by the military intervention of the United States, which has since maintained a strong military presence — including nuclear weapons — in this region, fueling a permanent tension that is contrary to the interests and aspirations of the Korean people to the peaceful reunification of their homeland, and which is inserted into the dangerous military escalation that is underway in the Asia-Pacific region. The resolution of the conflict on the Korean peninsula calls for steps towards defuse of tension and respect for the basic principles of international relations, such as the sovereignty of States, non-interference in their internal affairs, non-threat and non-use of force to resolve disputes. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session: Expresses its concern at the dangerous escalation of tension on the Korean Peninsula and in Asia-Pacific; Reaffirms the urgency of the abolition of nuclear weapons in a simultaneous and controlled manner and the commitment of the Portuguese State in order to achieve this objective, in line with the principle of the general disarmament established in the Constitution; Punja for the development of initiatives that, within the framework of respect for the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, aim at demilitarizing the Korean peninsula and its peaceful reunification, recognizing the Korean people the right to peace and contributing to the dismantling in this region.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u155	The following vote No 186 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation of the terrorist attack in Istanbul ( CDS-PP and 1 PS ). Let's vote for him. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[On the end of the year, Turkey was violently shaken by a cowardly attack in the city of Istanbul, indiscriminately committed against innocent civilians, fatally victimizing 39 people and wounding more than 60 others. The choice of a discotheque for the execution of this crime is revealing the unequivocal intention of terrorist movements to sow feelings of fear and insecurity in the affected populations, fighting their way of life. This criminal act, claimed by Daesh, represents a clear sign that fundamentalist movements will not give truce to all States, identified as target, continuing the promotion of radicalism and barbaric acts against their civilian populations. In recent months, Turkey has been particularly whipped by a series of terrorist attacks. Only in 2016, these attacks were responsible for the death of more than 200 people. Month after month, terrorism continues to drag with it thousands of human lives, exacerbating the violence of its methods. Within just over 20 days, 97 people died, including the Russian Ambassador to Turkey. The systematic repetition of these attacks reinforces the European Union's need to continue its firm fight against terrorism and to make full use of all the instruments available to it, including cooperation with its partners, such as the Republic of Turkey, which is increasingly a threat. In this sense, the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic condemns the barbarity of the attack committed and claimed by Daesh, in Istanbul, expresses its regret at the tragic loss of human lives and expresses its solidarity with the people and with the Turkish authorities.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u156	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 191 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation by the terrorist attack in Istanbul ( BE and PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[This is the following: On the night of the year, 39 people were killed and 69 others were shot at the Reina discotheque in Istanbul, Turkey, where more than 600 people would be killed. This terrorist attack was carried out by an attacker who raised a Daesh flag and subsequently the act was claimed by the same organization. The objectives of this terrorist attack are clear: to put fear in place and to spread violence. It is included in the series of attacks promoted by Daesh's followers on an agenda that clearly addresses fundamental freedoms and rights. The unequivocal condemnation of this and other attacks must be accompanied by the enhancement of the fundamental freedoms and rights that are being attacked and not by a limitation of those rights. The opposite would be to give in to terrorists' claims. We must express our sorrow to the families of the victims and all the solidarity due. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its vehement condemnation and deep regret for the terrorist attack that caused the death of 39 people and injured 69 others at a discotheque in Istanbul.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u157	The vote on vote No 188 / XIII ( 2 ) followed. ( a ) — Condemning the option to build a nuclear waste storage plant in Almaraz, Spain ( The Greens, PSD and PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[The nuclear power plant in Almaraz was built in the 70s of the 20th century, with one of its reactors operating in 1981 and the other in 1983. Its useful life period ended in 2010, but the Spanish Government has been extending this period. This is a very old nuclear power plant — the oldest one in Spain — which is already obsolete and has been the subject of several incidents, which have been registered recently and mainly linked to its cooling system. The Central Nuclear of Almaraz uses the waters of the river Tejo for its cooling system and is installed just 100 km from the border with Portugal. This proximity, as well as the sharing of this international river, are sufficient factors so that Portugal cannot, under any circumstances, be ignored in respect of projects related to that nuclear power plant. In view of the possibility that the Government of the Kingdom of Spain may authorize the construction of a nuclear waste storage plant at the Almaraz Nuclear Central, there is an even greater prospect of prolonging the life of the power plant for more than two decades. This possibility is particularly critical and unacceptable in various plans. At the legal level, the scale of a project with this nature cannot exempt an environmental impact assessment procedure, in particular the strategic and cross-border impacts involved. In relation to the bilateral relationship between the two States, and I pay attention to the potential risk and impact of the decision for the protected populations and areas on both sides of the border, the matter could not fail to involve previous communication, articulation and monitoring of the proximity of the issue with the Portuguese State. Finally, on the environmental level, the decision would highlight the need for a relevant debate on the use of nuclear energy and its long-term consequences, to be seen by the authorities, scientific institutions and Portuguese and Spanish civil societies, and which has not yet taken place. Portugal has chosen, in an assertive, sustained and successful manner, to use renewable energies as a path to the future and guarantee of energy independence, demonstrating the clear existence of an alternative and sustainable path. Thus, in constitutional and regulatory terms, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the possibility of the Spanish Government's decision on a project to build a nuclear waste warehouse in Almaraz, with obvious impacts and cross-border risks, ignoring the Government and the population of Portugal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u158	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 192 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Welcoming the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 2334 ( 2016 ), which condemns Israeli settlers in the Palestinian territory ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the vote against the CDS-PP Member João Rebelo and the PSD's abstentions, the CDS-PP and the PSS Member João Soares.]] [[It is as follows: the United Nations Security Council adopted on 23 December on 23 December last a resolution concerning the Israeli settlers in the Occupied Palestinian territory, one of the other important aspects: The UN Security Council of the United Nations Security Security Council adopted on 23 December on 23 December last a resolution concerning the Israeli settlers in the Occupied Palestinian territory, which, among other important aspects: Reaffirms its reaffirms that the creation by Israel of settlers in the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem, has not legal validity and constitutes a flagrant violation of international law and constitutes an important obstacle to the realization of the two-State solution; reiterates its demand for Israel to cease immediately and completely, immediately and completely, all settlement activities in the Occupied States, including East Jerusalem, including East Jerusalem; reiterates that the cessation of all Israeli settlement activities by two States and constitutes a flagrant violation of international law and constitutes an important obstacle to a flagrant violation of a flagrant violation of international law and constitutes an important obstacle to the realization of the two-State resolution of the two-States in the O most important aspects of the O most important aspects: the United Nations Security Council on 23 December of 23 December of 23 December last day on 23 December, the day on 23 December last day on 23 December, including the day on 23 December of the day, including the United Nations Security Council Security Council of the United Nations Security Council of the United Nations Security Security Council adopted resolution on 23 December 23 December 23 December, including the territory: The United Nations Security Council adopted resolution on 23 December 23 December 23 December, inter on 23 December 23 December 23 December, including the other important aspects: The United Nations Security Security Security Security Council adopted on 23 December on 23 December last adopted on 23 December, inter on 23 December on 23 December, including the United Nations Security Security Security Security Security Security Council on 23 December on 23 December, inter on 23 December on 23 December, including the day, including the day, including the other: The United Nations Security Council on 23 December, including the other important part: The United Nations Security Council on 23 December, including the other important issues: The United Nations Security Security Security Council, including the other important part: The United Security Security Security Security Security Security Council resolution reaffirms: The United Security Council resolution reaffirms: The United Security Council resolution reaffirms, and inter on 23 December on 23 December on 23 December on 23 December, among the other important aspects: The United Security Security Security Security Security Security Security Security Security Council]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u159	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u160	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u161	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u162	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês Domingos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u163	Mr President, it is to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Rubina Berardo, Mr Duarte Pacheco, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, Mr Ulisses Pereira, Mr Maria das Mercês Borges, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim and Mr Margarida Mano.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u164	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote on a request submitted by the NAP for a discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Direct, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 361 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, expressly prohibiting practices that are seriously harmful to the physical integrity of animals, such as "cat burning" and shooting at the flight of captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as target (NAP). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, let us now vote, in general, the project of lein.os 358 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Protection of individual and common water rights ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 584 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the right to water and sanitation ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 335 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection of individual and common water rights ( establishes the fundamental right to water and sanitation and provisions for the protection of that right, as well as the right to water as an environment and the rights common to water and public property of water as a resource and its management in the collective interest, hierarching the use of water and preventing the privatization and marketing of water services, public infrastructure and the water domain ( BE). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 578 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defence and valorisation of public school ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u165	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u166	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u167	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u168	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote, in general, on the overall speciality and finality, of Bill No 41 / XIII ( 2 ) is followed. ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to create the public service for electronic notifications associated with the single digital address. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The general vote on Bill No 42 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Change the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] The bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 355/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Criminal liability regime for behaviors likely to affect the truth, loyalty and correctness of the competition and its result in sport activity ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 348 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August by strengthening the legal framework for the handling of sports competitions ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 365 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 30 / 2015 of 22 April 2015, which establishes legislative measures aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of the fight against sport corruption ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 546 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Promotes improved access to Portuguese courses abroad and promotes their educational quality ( PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions of the BE and the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 267 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revokes the tip of Portuguese foreign education ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 271 / XIII ( 1 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Revokes the tip of Portuguese education abroad and establishes the free education manuals in the EPE courses ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall then vote on draft resolution No 388 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce the number of students per class in Portuguese courses abroad ( EPE) ( BE). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 587 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Development of the Portuguese teaching network abroad ( PSD ), and the Socialist Party requests that points 3 and 4 be voted on separately. I'll check with you guys. Members are still not in a position to vote, since the request for disaggregation has already been made during the vote. The Bureau has insisted that requests for disaggregation be made in advance and not in the middle of the vote. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u169	Mr President, we call for point 3 to be voted separately from point 4 and for the remaining points to be voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u170	Mrs. Members, let us then vote on point 3 of draft resolution No 587/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Development of the Portuguese teaching network abroad ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 4. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let us now vote points 1 to 3 and 5 to 10 of draft resolution No 587 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and abstained from BE, the CFP and the Greens were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on draft resolution No 598 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government bet on an active, effective and comprehensive policy for the defence and projection of the Portuguese language ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]] We shall now vote together four requests submitted by the authors of their diplomas, requesting the discharge of draft resolutions Nos 427 / XIII ( 1 ) to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting for a period of 60 days. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to update the Special Realisation Programme ( PER ) ( BE ) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ), 597 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an evaluation of the special resettlement programme ( PER ) and consider the introduction of amendments to the scheme in order to update it in order to adapt it to the needs of the current family aggregates by promoting the rehabilitation of buildings ( CDS-PP ), 599 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the national census of all situations in Portugal which are in need of reallocation, in conjunction with local authorities, and develop a new resettlement programme ( PSD ) and 600 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures for the suspension of demolition and disposals without alternative, updating housing needs and ensuring the right to adequate housing and social protection ( PCP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the diplomas are thus lowered to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing without a vote for a period of 60 days. We shall move on to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 26 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the British Virgin Islands on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 5 October 2010. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you agree then we will vote for four motions for resolutions together. They are the motions for resolutions Nos 27 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Turkish and Caicos Islands on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 21 December 2010, 28 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the States of Guernsey on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 9 July 2010, 33 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and Belize on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 22 October 2010, and 34 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Federation of St.Cristovão and Neves on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in Bassetere, on 29 July 2010. [[Pause.]] As there is no opposition to this, we shall vote on these motions for resolutions as a whole. [[When put to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were voted on and BE abstained.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u171	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u172	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u173	Mr President, I would like to say that the BE Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u174	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the joint overall vote on the motions for resolutions Nos 30/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the amendment to Article 8. the and other amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court on the crime of aggression adopted at the Kampala Review Conference, from 31 May to 11 June 2010, and 31 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the amendment to Article 124. the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal, adopted in The Hague, on 26 November 2015. [[When put to the vote, the PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u175	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u176	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u177	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u178	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also have for the vote an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be announced by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees is on the resumption of Mr.António Leitão Amaro's term of office ( PSD ), which has been on fatherly leave for 25 working days since 6 December. The opinion of the Sub-Commission is that, having completed this deadline, Mrs Eugénia Maria de Oliveira Duarte has ceased her term of office, returning the same António Leitão Amaro from January 11.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-06.u180	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the vote. It remains for me to announce the agenda for the Wednesday, 11th, beginning at 3 p.m. of the first point is the urgent debate required by the Left Block on public transport. of the second point is the general discussion of bill No. 322 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Create the forest management account ( CDS-PP ). The third point is followed by the assessment of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August which adopts a doctoral recruitment regime designed to stimulate scientific and technological employment in all areas of knowledge[ Parliamentary assessments 25 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 23 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE) ]. Bill No. 21 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Consecrates the Third Carnival Fair as a mandatory national holiday ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ). Good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 34 minutes.]]
