ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Members, before we move on to the reading of the dossier and start our work, I recall that there are elections in Sala D. Maria, to the National Health Council and to the Superior Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals. I also report that, by consensus between the various sides, there was an amendment in the agenda, the third point went to the second point, and vice versa. Now, I ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to make the announcement of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 516 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Uniformizes the exercise of the right to vote of voters living abroad by the twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May ( Regulation on the election of the President of the Republic ), the sixth amendment to Law No 14 / 79 of 16 May ( Election Law for the Assembly of the Republic ), the sixth amendment to Law No 14 / 87 of 29 April ( Election Law for the European Parliament ), and the repeal of Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ( Organization of the electoral process abroad ) ( PSD ), and 517 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Make the electoral census of Portuguese citizens living abroad informal and automatic, making the fifth amendment to Law No 13 / 99 of 22 March establishing the new legal regime of the electoral census ( PSD ) ; and draft resolution No 856 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to promote the production of milk from small ruminants ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u3	Mrs. Members, let us now begin discussion of Bill No 71 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime of the central registration of the effective beneficiary and transposes Chapter III of Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849. For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State and Justice, Helena Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Before I begin my brief speech, I would like to extend my respectful congratulations, particularly to you, Mr Exa, President of this great House of Democracy, and to wish this session to be decorated in the best way. This legislative initiative, which the Government now submits to the Assembly of the Republic, concerns, as you know, the legal regime of the central register of the effective beneficiary, referred to in Article 33. The proposal of the law. The creation of a central register of effective beneficiaries will enable the provision of information on the beneficial beneficiaries, in addition to basic information such as the social name and address, the proof of constitution and the property structure of the legal person. The responsibility for this central register of effective beneficiaries is, as you know, assigned to the Institute of Registers and the Notary(IRN ). This central register is intended to facilitate the identification of natural persons holding the control of legal persons or equivalent entities, making their identification elements accessible and assisting in the fulfilment of the duty to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Entities shall always consult the register before establishing a business relationship or carrying out an operation and compare the information contained in the registry with the information provided by the customer, including trusts, as well as regular consultations. With regard to access to information, a level of public access to essential elements concerning effective beneficiaries is established, an option which, on the one hand, promotes greater transparency and at the same time ensures the full implementation of the obligations laid down in Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015, with regard to ensuring access by any interested party to a fundamental set of data, without the need to densify the concept of legitimate interest in line with the advertising rule contained in the commercial register and the national register of collective persons. The public access data are as follows: for the entity, they are the identification number of legal persons or the tax identification number allocated in Portugal, the signature or designation, the legal nature, the headquarters and the EAC ( Portuguese Classification of Economic Activities ), the unique identifier of legal entities, where applicable, and the institutional electronic address ; for the beneficial beneficiaries such information, these data are the name, month and year of birth, nationality, country of residence and the economic interest held. A level of intermediate access is also provided, sufficient and appropriate, for obliged entities, which provides an auxiliary tool for the fulfilment of their legal duties in the field of prevention and combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Finally, the maximum level of access to the information contained in the register is limited to the supervisory, supervisory and criminal investigation authorities. Let me also point out that, on the issue of public disclosure of data on the actual beneficiary, we believe that this is fully justified by the lack of any inconformity which calls into question the protection of privacy by the following: these data are disclosed in a restricted way, but it is already, to a large extent, public data, in particular through the online publications of the IRN, either from simplified business information or from other public databases, even though access is obviously conditional on payment of a fee. Publication is proportionate and respects the legal rules for preventing money laundering and terrorist financing and the recommendations of the FATF ( Financial Action Group ), i.e. increasing transparency in business and society in general. Furthermore, online publication promotes even greater transparency, simultaneously ensuring...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u5	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u6	I really am concluding, Mr President. As I said, the online publication promotes greater transparency while ensuring the full implementation of obligations under European Union law, ensuring access by any interested party to a fundamental set of data without the need for densification of the concept of legitimate interest. The disclosure concerned respects the principle of proportionality, weighted and balanced which were the rights to privacy and to the protection of personal data, on the one hand, and on the other, the requirements of transparency and publicity which guarantee the necessary democratic control.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u7	You really have to conclude, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u8	Mr President, I would just like, if I may, to make a reference to something which is, in fact, very important and has to do with the description of the forms of payment of the acts subject to registration in the contracts for the purchase and sale of buildings, provided for in the bill. In this regard, we believe that an effective fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism is essential, because it is particularly vulnerable to the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, and this measure is proportional to what we intend to combat. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u9	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you very much for what you have said about the Assembly of the Republic and we all wish you, of course, the greatest happiness in the exercise of your duties. Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Bill No 71 / XIII ( 2 ) ( a ), which is intended to proceed to the legal regime of the central registration of the effective beneficiary and which the Secretary of State has just presented to us, is a proposal which we welcome and which is linked, in fact, to its statement of reasons, with the measures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and, as it relates to the actual beneficiary, to its purpose—as follows from the expression itself—with knowledge and obtaining a central register, a database containing up-to-date, accurate and sufficient information from all the elements that allow to know who is the natural person behind a particular collective person. And we know that legal personality is an abstraction, a legal concept, an end personality, which distinguishes itself from the natural persons, from the human person, precisely by its instrumental nature. But if it is true that it is an instrument for the realization of ends, it is also, as many times, an instrument for the realization of non-legal purposes. Therefore, all that can be done, within the framework of the GAFI positions, in terms of uniformizing instruments in the European area, in order to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism, obviously deserves our applause. We know that money laundering is not mixed with the financing of terrorism, in fact, different realities, insofar as one seeks to legitimize funds obtained by illicit means and another, on the contrary, intends to finance criminal activities, but the truth is that, either side, it converges, as many times, in the use of the same means, such as the concealment of capital processing, and they grow in opacity. Obviously, the establishment of a database that allows for the arrest of such information at all times, in respect of the person who truly holds by an interposed person, whether a legal person or a natural person, will, of course, contribute to this transparency and allows the realization of that scope which he referred to. The Secretary of State refers to the proportionality of the means. We do not ignore that the National Data Protection Commission has already issued an opinion which raises some repairs — all of them easily out of date, but they will obviously deserve our weighting — which also, as the Secretary of State knows, with the three levels of access to the information provided for in the bill, and of course, the criminal investigation bodies are incontroverted...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u11	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u12	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. As I was saying, the criminal investigation bodies will, of course, have all unrestricted access and all the time to this information and, eventually, there will be other types of information which will not, in particular, justify their advertising via the Internet. But this is a matter which, in the field of expertise, we will address. Therefore, Mr President, I conclude by thanking and greeting the Government for this measure to combat financial crime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u13	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u14	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The eradication of money laundering and the financing of terrorism must be assumed by each of us as the great design and challenge of modern societies. We are faced with a complex, organized and transnational phenomenon that requires new responses. With the transposition of this 2015 Directive, Portugal will become a better legal framework for all entities dealing with money. It will be harder to exist simulated and easier to follow the trail of money. One of the most important aspects of the Directive is the creation of the central register of the effective beneficiary, which may be a powerful tool in the fight against tax fraud and evasion, helping to expose opaque corporate schemes and structures. The PSD recognises the good intention of the Government in the transposition of this Directive. However, you cannot fail to mention that, often imbued with the best intentions, we can fall into an excess of conditioning. This can happen when we legislate beyond the transposition of a mere directive, as is the case with this bill. Who says so is the National Data Protection Commission. According to its opinion, some of its provisions may constitute unacceptable restrictions on fundamental rights and require careful weighting in the field of expertise. Here is just one example: the government wants information to be made available to the public via the Internet, exposing personal data, beyond borders and throughout the world, when such provision does not necessarily take place under this Directive. But it is not enough to have the best legislation, we need to have adequate and prepared organisational structures and models, from a human and technical point of view, to stop this struggle. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, it is important to know whether the Portuguese authorities are prepared to implement this law. It is important to know whether the Government has already identified its needs and whether it has already scheduled the implementation of the responses it has outlined. at the level of justice, Madam Secretary of State, I recall that, according to the European Union's Justice Assessment Report, the average duration of money laundering processes in Portugal is 422 days, one of the slowest. That's why, sirs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, the best legislation in the world, without any means, is worth little or nothing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today there are three proposals under consideration, but two, in particular, which are at different times of the debate, in some way reflect the great discussion we have here. And these proposals, which are basically the transposition into the Portuguese legal system of several directives on combating money laundering and financing terrorism, imply, in themselves, the recognition of an undeniable reality. This reality is that financial deregulation, free movement of capital, tax havens do not only serve, as is often argued, legitimate purposes of private accumulation of capital, also serve as a means of money laundering, financing terrorism and illicit activities. So, yes, economic and financial deregulation and the liberalization of the movement of capital often serve economic crime. Knowing this and admitting this reality, there are two ways to combat economic crime and money laundering which is favoured by the system itself and by the functioning of the financial system itself. The first form, which is the most effective, implies limiting the instruments that allow economic crime, which means ending tax havens, imposing restrictions on banking secrecy, imposing restrictions on the movement of capital, amending the rules for the operation of the financial system. We are then faced with the first problem: there is no political will to do this. The most effective way to combat economic crime has, or has not so far had political support. Just see for this the position of the Portuguese State and Portugal. We look at Panama papers and we notice that many of the societies that are used in complex schemes, worldwide, to escape tax or to whitening capitals pass through the International Business Centre of Madeira. They go through their own paradise, which will certainly not be the same as Panama, but pass through here. Therefore, when the country itself affords itself the luxury of not recognizing this reality, it is legitimate to question the political will to want to go to the bottom of the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u18	The second way of trying to mitigate this problem is the one presented to us by the directives, exchanging information between several countries and some transparency requirements. I do not want to minimize the proposals we have on the table, particularly this measure of establishing a register for effective beneficiaries. But, look, where we are in 2017! Finally, we are trying to create a place where it is possible to register the names of people or companies who are the real owners or real business people. In 2017! After all financial scandals, after all committees of inquiry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u20	...after everything we know about the functioning of the financial system, today we are trying to regulate the simple requirement to know who's the face of a business!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u21	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u22	I will finish, Mr. President. When we are at this low level of demand for the economic system, I do not share the opinion of the PSD, that we must be particularly careful with conditionalisms. Privacy is a right. Opacity is not a right of the economic system. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So all business has to have a face and a name and it has to be public, because the economy has to be public. It is not personal privacy that is concerned and will certainly be by these principles that we will discuss these projects in the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u23	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u24	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: This diploma, which we are discussing today, which makes the transposition of a directive, creating a register of effective beneficiaries, has responded to a need which has been, in fact, often addressed here in Parliament, about several cases of different nature and which has to do with this idea that you should know the real owner or the real interested person behind a business. We have discussed this several times from the point of view of financial crime, in matters related to banking or, as in the past, related to social communication. from our point of view, the principle that we should know, that the actual beneficiary of a business should be public, does not raise any objection. And therefore, regardless of a discussion in the specialty on the repairs of the National Data Protection Commission, we understand what the Secretary of State has exposed, but the question I would like to ask is of a different nature. The concealment of the actual beneficiary is often made with criminal intent, in fact, if it is not, it also becomes much more unnecessary to know it. It is important to know it, precisely in those cases where, for some reason, if it is hidden, especially in cases related to economic crime, money laundering and tax fraud. The point I would like to raise is to know how effective this registration will be. This is because, regardless of all the questions that the Secretary of State raised about the operation of the register and access to the register, it is important to realize how far effective beneficiaries will actually be registered in a universe of people who do not want to register and do not want to appear. I regret that I no longer have time to answer, but it was important to realize how effective this registration will be, because if it works only on mandatory communications, but, until some time, volunteers, we risk having a record of effective beneficiaries that will be at least effective beneficiaries. It's going to be intermediate beneficiaries, so let's say. What I wanted to see is whether, from a practical point of view, we are actually going to get to the beneficial beneficiaries or whether we are going to have another record that will be of intermediate beneficiaries. If this is it, it won't do any good either. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u25	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The proposed law establishing the central register of the effective beneficiary and which the Government is presenting today represents a small step in the march against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. A small step because it is a legislative measure that joins so many others and whose compliance has never occurred. We remember, for example, the Banif case. We recall that the bank did not meet many of its obligations in combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism, but this was only exposed when it was too late. The Banco de Portugal knew, the external auditor knew, the administration of Banif knew and did not find that anything had happened. We refer to this case only in order to demonstrate that, in this context, it is not enough to legislate, it is necessary to withdraw the consequence of the law. The identification of the final beneficiary of a company is important if it is possible to identify the true owners of a company, either in tax and supervision plans, or when it is necessary in the judicial sphere. What will not be resolved by this legislation, however, is the fundamental issue that is at the root and base of money laundering: the speculative economy, the maximization of profit of large economic groups and large shareholders at all costs. Economic crime has also developed very effective means and has virtually inexhaustible resources, far more than the means available to supervisors, tax authorities or police and judicial forces. The disproportion of means is grueling. The committees of inquiry in the Assembly of the Republic have already heard of millions of euros paid to a single lawyer to architect a offshore scheme to save much more million in taxes. We simply look at the means available to the Republic: the Banco de Portugal, if we consider it to defend the Republic, has few, orders audits to be made by private companies ; the CMVM (Mobiliary Securities Market Commission) has few, carries out audits with its own efforts ; and the Judicial Police, finally, we know by what means it can continue its activity in combating money laundering and financing terrorism. at the same time it is not clear how this registration will be implemented in the case of large companies, where social participations are dispersed and complex, where there are miraculous business architectures, designed and carried out by large companies of lawyers to ensure the best way to escape the law or tax responsibilities. We have seen this in almost all the bankrupt banks in Portugal and in their relations with economic groups, and we would certainly see it in another set of large companies and large groups, if they were to be polled into an investigation, such as the parliamentary investigation. Money laundering is a world directly linked to the biggest businesses in the world, from drug trafficking and arms trafficking to human trafficking, but also linked to economic crime and misused profits or circular financing. Whitening practices are at the root of a large number of problems that always fall upon them: workers. Workers lose jobs when managers or owners break up and close the assets of a company or have to pay the bank accounts that were robbed by administrators hidden behind offshore.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u27	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u28	Finally, Mr President, saying that the proposal for a law does not, of course, represent a step backwards, but also does not represent the necessary progress. As long as there are doors in the back that give by the name of offshore, with whom the PCP has long proposed to ban commercial relations, it will shortly advance to put in front of the police. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u29	In what time still available, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u30	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, unfortunately, the position of the Left Block is quite predictable in this matter. Always intend to use the face of Madeira's free zone for everything and nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u31	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u32	It is not permissible to use this material to politicize and denigrate the image of Madeira's free zone. For the Left Block, the problem is always Madeira's free zone when talking about money laundering. So, what about the banks, Mrs Mariana Mortágua? Oh, my God! So what about the foundations? Oh, my God! So what about real estate companies? Oh, my God! So what about casinos and gaming rooms? Oh, my God! The free zone is not an offshore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u33	It's an inshore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u34	The free zone observes all the rules and the best principles of Community law and national law and has nothing to do with the Panama papers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u35	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u36	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it was appropriate to realise how far the Left Block agrees with the matter we are discussing here today and that it is essential to take a major step towards combating corruption and money laundering and not to deny the image of Madeira's free zone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u37	Mrs. Members, the general assessment of Bill No 71 / XIII ( 2 ) is concluded. ( a). We now move on to the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 70/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — regulates the application and enforcement of restrictive measures adopted by the United Nations or the European Union and establishes the sanctioning regime applicable to the violation of restrictive measures. For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : This is to create the legal framework necessary for the implementation in Portugal of the restrictive measures adopted by the United Nations or the European Union. Where the recipients of these measures are identified, the proposed law lays down the conditions for the immediate application of those measures. Where identification is by group and specific recipients need to be identified, administrative measures shall be applied by the Government through decisions of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the relevant Sectoral Minister. The necessary legal guarantees are also established of course and, with the approval of this law, Portugal is in a better position to immediately implement, in accordance with its international responsibilities, the restrictive measures adopted by the international community. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u39	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The dominant account in this area is that there has been a change of blind sanctions for targeted or so-called « smart sanctions ». In fact, the old first-generation sanctions, which, for example, punished children in Iraq — and are estimated to have been killed between 100 000 and 270 000 for lack of assistance because of the sanctions applied to that people — will have been replaced by the so-called smart sanctions, in which there is an individualization to achieve political-military clicks, to reach companies or funds that feed conflict and large-scale violations of human rights. Therefore, the dominant account is this. But to assume that this is strictly so is to fall into an exercise of unlimited idealism. Perhaps the Security Council, which decreed the old sanctions, changed when decreeing a new type of sanctions? The Council of Ministers of the European Union, which decrees the old type of sanctions, changed when decreeing a new type of sanctions? Did the criteria become different? Where before was there a game of balance between the five powers, permanent members of the Security Council, for the purposes of the individualization of the new sanctions? The terrorists of today are no longer the fighters for freedom in the morning, and vice versa, for this purpose? Therefore, believing that intelligent sanctions are individualized, accurate and surgical is the same as believing that surgical bombings do not cause innocent deaths. That is why we believe that the national legal regime for the application of these sanctions should be particularly prudent and rigorous, and this bill, Minister and Secretary of State, seems to us to fail precisely in this capacity to be completely rigorous and prudent, as it should be. We are talking about restrictive measures which mean, therefore, restrictions on freedoms, and restrictions on freedoms in a democratic rule of law must be surrounded by all guarantees. It is precisely in the limited cases that the genuineness of a rule of law is tested.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u42	For this reason, we believe that leaving the discretion of a government, through a ministry, the identification, application and enforcement of these sanctions seems to us to be something dangerous and we do not follow. To conclude this part, we also recall that there are some doubts in the case of dubious or incomplete identification. In conclusion, Mr Minister, I would say that for the Left Block it is important, and we will contribute to this, that there is a national legal regime allowing genocide, warlords, recruitments of child soldiers or companies or funds that feed on all wars everywhere. We will contribute to this, but our final vote in this matter, after work in the specialty, will be fully determined by the incorporation, in the law that comes to pass—...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u43	You have to finish, Mr. Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u44	...I shall finish, Mr President, with significant changes in terms of the guarantees that this process must be surrounded. That's what I meant, on behalf of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u45	Mr José Silvano has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Foreign Affairs: This bill aims to provide the national legal order for a system of implementation and enforcement in the national territory of such measures which are adopted by the United Nations, the European Union and other international bodies to which Portugal belongs. Increasingly, due to the maintenance of international peace and security, the protection of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the preservation of national sovereignty and independence and the prevention and repression of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, these measures are a multilateral instrument of a political-diplomatic nature, of a non-punitive nature, which aims to change actions or policies. Governments, non-governmental bodies or natural or legal persons may be addressed as well. In recent years, this type of measures has increased significantly and are increasingly complex and comprehensive, which requires the regulation of its enforcement procedures, and the Portuguese State is currently obliged to apply them and execute them, i.e. to make them more effective. This proposal for a law regulates, in particular, restrictive measures on the import and export of goods, transfers of funds, cancellation of funds and economic resources, refusal of entry of foreign citizens, refusal of visa and residence authorisation. In line with this Government legislative initiative, as a general rule, we warn here that the limits to be taken into account in their concrete application and that their compliance must comply with the regulatory principles. Public entities implementing these measures shall be subject to the duties of cooperation, communication and information, reporting of acts and omissions, confidentiality and international cooperation and mutual assistance. We should take into account, in particular, the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, which draws attention to the need to regulate the procedure to be adopted, if there are doubts when implementing the measures, as to the identification of the recipient of the measures. In fact, where the identification data of the natural person is insufficient to allow unequivocal identification of the addressee of the natural person, its execution should be suspended until it is possible to confirm with strict certainty its identity, that is what the National Data Protection Commission says and this should be a limit to be taken into account in the legislation to be approved in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u47	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u48	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this bill must strengthen the guarantee of citizens' rights in cases of doubt as to their identification. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u49	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u50	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This bill regulates the application and enforcement of the restrictive measures adopted by the UN and the European Union and establishes the sanctions regime applicable to the violation of restrictive measures by repealing Law No 11 / 2002. The presentation of this legislative initiative, as well as others currently under consideration in the plenary, is another step in strengthening internal security and international cooperation in combating terrorism. The purpose of this bill is, in summary, to provide the national legal order for a system of application and enforcement of restrictive measures approved by the UN, as well as by the European Union and other international organisations of which Portugal is a member, and to establish the competent sanctions regime applicable to situations of non-compliance with restrictive regimes in order to ensure compliance with the obligations arising from international law and the law of the European Union which bind the Portuguese State. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular, it is a matter of regulating a temporary restriction on the exercise of a certain right, by imposing a prohibition or obligation, with precise objectives, of which I stress the maintenance or restoration of international peace and security, the protection of human rights, democracy, the rule of law and the prevention and repression of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The scope of its application will be the persons of Portuguese nationality, who reside in Portugal or who wish to be admitted to national territory, shall be any legal, public or private person, based, effective direction in Portugal and — I highlight here — shall be the funds and economic resources which are found in national territory, regardless of nationality and residence. On this last point, I stress, in particular, the possibility of freezing funds and resources and other financial penalties. Its implementation, as mentioned above, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the member of the Government responsible for the sector, but I stress that its application is dependent on ensuring the principle of reciprocity and the competence of the applicant in the application procedure and the existence of guarantees that the information will only be used for the purposes laid down in the law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u51	As regards guarantees, I also point out that the inherent judicial control is ensured, an option which shows an effective concern to safeguard the rights of freedoms and guarantees with the strengthening of the legal guarantees of its recipients and with respect for the fundamental rights of a rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with the firm conviction, I and also of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that, with the approval of this bill, Parliament will be making a very significant contribution to the construction of a more democratic and safer society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u52	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u53	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The bill we are discussing today is intended to regulate the application and enforcement in Portugal of restrictive measures adopted by the United Nations or the European Union and the sanctions regime applicable to its violation. Let us therefore be clear about terminology. “Restrictive measures” is no less than a technical term adopted to designate the political, diplomatic or economic sanctions that are determined by the United Nations or the European Union in respect of States, companies or personalities. We may be talking about measures that may go through prohibitions of entry or transit through Portugal of certain personalities, we may be talking about import or trade embargoes, or we may be talking about banning business activities in Portugal. In any case, we may be talking about measures that harm citizens'or companies'rights established in Portugal, and it is not to be ruled out that the application of these measures has harmful consequences for legitimate rights and interests of Portuguese citizens or companies. Just think of the consequences of the sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia for a significant number of Portuguese exporting companies, to have an idea of the harmful consequences that measures of this kind can have on national citizens or companies. The introduction of this bill is based on the idea that there is no applicable regime in the Portuguese legal order to impose on the domestic order the effectiveness of sanctions and to punish their failure to comply. The aim of this legislative initiative is to achieve this objective, but it is not necessary, however, to assess, in appropriate terms, a matter to which we attach great importance, which is to make it possible to measure the conformity of the application of these measures with the Portuguese constitutional order. The principle that part of the bill is that sanctions decided by the UN or the European Union are to be applied in Portugal in an automatic manner, without regard to the adequacy of such compliance to the guarantee of fundamental rights, constitutionally guaranteed in Portugal and without regard to the adequacy of such automatic application to the constitutionally admissible regime of the restriction of fundamental rights. What is more drawn from the bill is that acts of national public entities applying and executing restrictive measures are liable to judicial challenge in general terms. We agree that 'general terms' is an overly vague formulation for the protection of fundamental rights. The application of sanctions in Portugal shall not exclude any measurement of its constitutional conformity or its adequacy to values which are considered essential, from the point of view of the national interest. That is what is missing in this proposal for a law and which, therefore, gives us serious reservations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u54	Mr Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u55	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. State Secretaries, Mr. Members: This proposal for a law, to which everyone has already given a name, and which has a prominent and technical name, aims, above all, to regulate the way in which the so-called sanctions will be applied and implemented in Portugal, which the UN Council and the Council of the European Union intend to apply to a country or body which violates international law, human rights or which does not respect the principles of a democratic rule of law. That's what we're talking about. That is why it scares me a bit to see the Left Block and the PCP very concerned about the fundamental guarantees of the citizens and then to the caretakers against these fundamental principles. It was therefore important for all of us to realize that we must make a balance of weight between rights and others here, because they are all fundamental rights and freedoms. Therefore, in the balance between them there must be the solution and this law seems to us frankly balanced. what is essentially about combating the transnational activity of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction—is, above all, that sanctions or restrictive measures have been applied. And the CDS shares the ideas that underpin these instruments. In fact, the CDS was the first party to deal with the issues of terrorism and to present a package on terrorism, which we will also discuss next week, and which Mr Telmo Correia has mentioned very well. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u56	It must therefore be recognized, of course, that, with sovereignty and autonomy, as always has to be, Portugal has to be part of these international bodies and must be with them in these restrictive measures, in order to combat transnational crime in this global world in which we live. This is the only way it can be done. I must also say that in Portugal the applicability of these restrictive measures is only absolutely feasible if our legal system is compatible with this. There must therefore be some consistency here and some systematization. Therefore, Mr Minister, in the sanctioning part itself, you will have to bring it fully into line with our criminal system. And if there is nothing to say about the maximum penalty applicable — the penalty of imprisonment for five years — it might have been thought to impose a minimum penalty, which is not done at this time, at which point it is worth weighing and which, eventually, we will not stop proposing in the field of specialty. In conclusion, I just want to say that the National Data Protection Commission has already identified some technical difficulties in how the recipient is identified. So it is good that this is also seen in the field of specialty, and we will not stop doing so, Minister, so that there are no disparities in the identification of recipients here, because that would, yes, be very damaging to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the targeted people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u57	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to thank the contribution of all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that the Assembly of the Republic accompanies the Government in this concern and I am sure that the debate, in particular, will make it possible to enrich the diploma and dispel the doubts which very legitimately some parliamentary groups have put. We generally agree on what Portugal requires to legislate in this area. First, it is necessary for the international community to defend itself and defend the values of human rights, security and respect for human dignity by applying the measures provided for in international law, including the so-called 'countermeasures'. Traditionally, countermeasures were made against States, but we all now know the importance of non-State actors, terrorist networks and other ways that threaten our security and international peace. Therefore, countermeasures also have to address this type of non-State actors, saving populations, in fact, when measures directed at States were so abstract that they ended up unfairly penalizing populations. Secondly, we all know that Portugal has obligations in the international community. This is about regulating the implementation of measures adopted by the United Nations Security Council or the European Union. Thirdly, it is necessary to change the Portuguese legal framework, because the current legal framework does not guarantee the effectiveness of restrictive measures, even when they are of immediate application, that is, when their recipients are thoroughly identified, either by the United Nations or by the European Union, nor does it provide the legal guarantees indispensable to the purposes of those decisions. On some of the issues that have been raised, I would like, as a contribution from the Government, to make a few modest comments. The first comment is that it is very important to distinguish these, which are restrictive measures of an administrative nature, meaning temporary suspension of rights, criminal sanctions, which are not the responsibility of the Government to initiate. So here we are talking about a very precise group of measures, restrictive measures of an administrative nature. The second comment is that, even with regard to these measures, the recipient's defence rules, which, in fact, is purely fair, are guaranteed by the possibility of judicial challenge to the Government's decision in general terms of the law. The third comment is that all indications resulting from the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission may be examined and decided by the Assembly of the Republic during the discussion in the specialty. The same applies to all other contributions which the parliamentary groups have decided to make. This is a matter in which it will be very important for Parliament to join together and thereby strengthen the international Portuguese position. And I am sure that the debate, in its specialty, will enable us to arrive at such a consensual solution as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u59	The general debate on Bill No 70 / XIII ( 2 ) was concluded. ( a ), we will generally consider Bill No 72 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849 and implementing Regulation ( EU ) 2015 / 847. You have the floor Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current national system for the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism stems from Law No 25 / 2008, which at the time transposed the European directives of 2005 and 2006 in this area and also the first recommendations of the International Financial Action Group, i.e. the GAFI, of the OECD. This system is based on a mechanism of detection and reporting of operations that are considered suspicious, obligation of detection and report that affects the economic operators involved in the same operations. The report of this information, which is essential for both criminal prevention and criminal investigation, is made, in our system, in a dual way, to the Financial Information Unit (UIF ) of the Judicial Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, thus covering the preventive and investigative aspects associated with this system. Through this proposal for a law, the Government has proposed to the Assembly of the Republic the transposition of the new European Union directive on money laundering and the financing of terrorism, the implementation of the regulation on the same subject and, to a large extent, the international standards for combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism, which were issued by the FATF in 2012. The fundamental architecture of the current prevention system is maintained in the proposal that is presented. However, I would like to highlight the set of significant innovations which, we think, will increase the effectiveness of the system. First, and perhaps central in this diploma, the obligation to identify the actual beneficiary of the operations, which has been essentially the subject of Bill No 71 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), previously discussed. Secondly, there is a strengthening of control obligations ranging from the extension of the scope of the scheme to payment institutions, electronic money institutions and management entities of collaborative financing platforms and, on the other hand, a reduction to EUR 10 000 for the carry-over of cash transactions. Finally, a strengthening of the powers of the Central Department of Investigation and Criminal Action ( Central Department of Investigation and Action ) which can be accessed within the framework of mechanisms for preventing money laundering, even before the existence of a criminal investigation, to financial, fiscal, administrative, judicial and police information, which is necessary for the implementation of the procedures for the preventive investigation of money laundering or the financing of terrorism. These government proposals join the legislation already recently adopted in the Assembly of the Republic on cash and securities payments to the carrier, and we believe that, together with them, it will be able to provide the country with a more appropriate legal framework to prevent and combat this type of crime. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u61	As long as the parliamentary groups joined in order to intervene, I would remind the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are running elections to the National Health Council and the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals until the end of the session in Sala D. Maria. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members who have not yet exercised their right to vote to do so as soon as possible. Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This bill amends the legal rules for combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The legislative amendments are in the positive direction, and therefore they deserve our favourable vote, there is consensus, it is peaceful. It is important, however, to highlight something that we consider very relevant. It is that these legislative amendments are not new at national and international level. We have already seen a number of legislative amendments without significant results in combating money laundering and financing terrorism. It is therefore important to reflect on whether, in addition to legislative amendments, there is a real political will to combat these realities. The truth is, apart from the dark world of offshores that it is important to fight—and we have had a lamentable episode of a State Secretary of the CDS who closed his eyes to more than EUR 10 billion that went to offshores—the financial markets, the City of London and Wall Street, are the main beneficiaries of money laundering in the world. Allow me to mention it, Mr President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, a passage from a book by Roberto Saviano that says that New York and London are today the two largest dirty money laundries in the world. They are no longer tax havens, such as the Cayman Islands or the Isle of Man but, yes, the City of London and Wall Street. This journalist also quotes the head of the Department of Justice of the United States of America, who at Congress said that the banks of the United States of America are used to accommodate large amounts of illicit capital hidden, among billions of dollars, that are transferred every day from bank to bank. Roberto Saviano concludes that the centers of world financial power have remained at the expense of drug money. It is this concrete reality that we have not registered the political will to fight. The same applies to the financing of terrorism. It is that the fight against the financing of terrorism in countries such as the United States of America and many of the European Union has its own day. For example, there is no problem in financing terrorist organisations in Syria if this serves the country's geostrategic interests a, b or c. In short, Mr. President and Mr. Members, of course, we agree with the legislative amendments, but we want to reaffirm here that there is a need for political will at the national and international level to effectively combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activity. And this, unfortunately, has not happened in the times that run. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u63	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u64	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: As the people say, and with much property, « better late than ever». In 2016, the PSD submitted to Parliament a draft resolution, warning the Government of the need to anticipate the transposition of the Community directive by the end of that year. This initiative has merited the majority vote in favour of this House. The Minister of Justice itself has publicly undertaken to comply with this deadline. The urgency of the matter so demanded. Well, that didn't happen. We are in May, almost at the limit of the maximum deadline for the transposition of the directive, a deadline which we wanted to anticipate because of the importance of the subject which we believe no one is asking, and this transposition remains to be done. The debate we are now starting should have been completed last year. I remember that, after the debate this afternoon, there is a long way to go. As you know, there is a set of mandatory hearings that will take a long time for us. But, I repeat, « better late than never»! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I mentioned in my previous speech, there are subjects which are fundamental to the deepening of the rule of democratic law, which are suprapartary and which impose special duties on us. Money laundering and the financing of terrorism are international problems which therefore involve global efforts. All countries and parties should therefore make efforts to develop and promote policies to combat these phenomena. in an increasingly demanding democratic culture, there is only one path to a more just and equitable society. That path is the eradication of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The PSD does not do as many other parties, such as the Left Block, who choose the easiest way, which is the path of demagogy. The PSD won't stay out, won't stay on the bench watching the game and criticize the transposition of this initiative. The PSD is committed to improving legislation, combating money laundering and combating terrorism. The PSD is committed to creating and improving instruments and mechanisms that enable us to succeed in this daily struggle. We did it in the government and we do it in the opposition today. We have done so in the past, we do so in the present and we will continue to do so in the future, in a cooperative, collaborative and constructive way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u65	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the Socialist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u66	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: This bill is one more piece, one more stone in this way, in this building that we are building against money laundering and aggressive taxation practices, tax fraud, which make a substantial part of the Portuguese support the tax effort, while others, of course, of criminal practices, such as the financing of terrorism, have other criminal practices to escape taxes. It is another stone on this path, because the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and other parliamentary groups in this House of the Republic have approved in this House, in this Legislative Session, legislative initiatives— draft laws, which gave rise to laws — on the reduction of the amount for cash payments, the elimination of capital securities to the carrier... It was also in this House that the obligation to communicate, to publish statistics for offshore transfers was voted on. This working group — the Working Party on Combating Economic Crime — has gathered, voted and brought to this plenary a set of initiatives. It is therefore Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, who I remember that for this working group the number of PSD initiatives is quick and easy to tell you: zero, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u67	It's true! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u68	The speed you ask for has not been seen in this working group. There were proposals from the PCP Parliamentary Group, the Left Block, the Socialist Party and even the CDS, but the PSD proposals in this working group were zero, zero! It is therefore wrong for the PSD to come to this debate to criticize the government when what the government does is precisely to comply with the need for more transparency and legal instruments to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism — it is a step in the right direction — reducing the threshold to €10,000, when the previous threshold was €15 000, coordinating institutions to identify risks, cooperating internationally. And let me point out another aspect, particularly important to us, in a line which seems sensible to us: these problems are resolved in a multilateral context, and that is what this government once again does. In other words, it transposes directives and the implementation of regulations, while transposing to the Portuguese legal system a set of initiatives of the Financial Action Group, an intergovernmental group that has proposed a set of legislative instruments to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism since 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u69	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u70	Mr. Secretary of State, the Government is pleased. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group supports and will vote in favour of this initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u71	For an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u72	Mr President: This bill follows others that we have just discussed and thought until the Under-Secretary of State and Justice, when I spoke recently, was already holding a joint debate, given that she referred to the bill now under discussion. And it ended up being a little bit like this: several members of the government spoke, each one in relation to his bill, but basically all of them on the same subject and on the same subject. With regard to the proposed law under discussion, I would like to say that, of course, we consider — the CDS has always and does not change its mind about this — that terrorism and the fight against terrorism are central issues of today's day, are central issues of the European Union and are a real concern in our country, where the Internal Security Report itself says that the risk is no longer small, but at least moderate. We know that combating terrorism is often to suffocate, so to speak, its sources of financing, because, through these sources, terrorism will have the opportunity to act and be lethal. We also know that this depends on many circuits, including economic circuits mentioned here. We also know that particular attention needs to be paid to the financial system, but not only — that is what this directive is going to be transposed. In addition to the financial system, it is necessary to pay attention to real estate — including extending to lease — the liberal professions, of which the lawyer himself, several commercial agents, auctioneers and other types of activities, which may be related and assist in this same financing. The proposal we have on the table today points to other phenomena which also deserve concern and combat within whitening, but which do not refer strictly to terrorism. For example, when the number of financially sensitive people is extended, we are no longer strictly in the field of terrorism, but in a field a little side by side.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u74	But there are other matters that are important. For example, reducing the possibility of cash circulation from 15 000 to 10 000, as is evident, is a relevant matter, because it will increase the degree of transparency. With regard to the concept of an effective beneficiary which has been discussed here — and taking into account the doubts raised by my colleague, and well, because, normally, the actual beneficiary wants precisely that he is not known to be beneficiary in these cases — it is necessary to know whether or not this proposal is sufficient Finally, the proposal reinforces the exchange of information, which is, of course, the most effective method of combating it. Considering the position of the CDS in relation to combating terrorism and considering that the bill improves the system of combating terrorism, of course we will adopt the bill. We obviously hope that these issues will continue to be discussed. I would just say that when some doubts arise, from the point of view of constitutionality — we think that the proposal is not sick of this problem, but still sometimes they are raised — when the question of privacy arises, we should be careful and have the same standard in all matters relating to terrorism. There are other areas in which we will also have to overcome difficulties. I am thinking, for example, of the metadata, about which the CDS will bring here a proposal next week, and we know that the government will also have a proposal shortly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u75	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u76	I will finish, Mr. President. I hope that these other proposals, which can help improve, have the same weight and measure of all parliamentary groups so that we can, in fact, fight either through the financial system or in effective combat and information exchange, limit the ability to act on terrorism, which is and will always be our objective. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u77	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs: This is the continuation of the debate that was held recently and we are available to discuss all the proposals. In fact, we have presented many of these years: some have been approved, some have not, few have been approved at the time of the majority PSD and CDS and we are being able to approve some at this time of this new majority. But I would like to reply directly to Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa, who came to accuse the Demagogy Block of combating money laundering, tax fraud and the financing of terrorism. In fact, he was not only accused of demagogy, but of demagogy and of little action. I would like to remind you that in the last working group created for this purpose, the PSD presented the round number of zero proposals for debate. Zero proposals for debate! I would like to recall that, if it is today in the law that transfers to offshore have to be published, known and made public, it was on the proposal of the Left Block, because when the PSD was in the government it did not publish them and therefore it is good that this be remembered. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u79	I would like to remind you that if today the titles to the carrier are prohibited, it was on the proposal of the Left Block because the PSD did nothing against it. I would like to remind you that, if there is today an obligation of knowledge of the actual beneficiary for owners of bank shares, it was on a proposal from the Left Block, because the PSD did not present any proposals on this. If today there is a project to define what is effective beneficiary, it is because the Left Block presented a project, because the PSD did not present anything about it. I would like to remind you of two proposals, in particular: one that conditioned the tax benefits granted to companies based at the Madeira International Business Centre. Notice that it was not intended to end it, one simple thing was proposed: that the job created be a real job and that the companies do not share the same worker, to deceive the system and get the benefit. And, therefore, it has been said that the job created is a full-time job, with conditions for it to be known that employment exists and benefits the Madeirans. How did the PSD vote on this proposal? Against. Against the creation of employment in such a system as you are. Ladies and gentlemen say you create a job. Second proposal: prohibition of transfers to non-cooperating offshore. Here, we are not talking about Madeira, but, yes, to transfer and make payments to Panama, to the Cayman Islands, to the most obscure paradises. We have proposed something simple: it is forbidden. That it's forbidden. How did the PSD vote? Against. This is the PSD record in the fight against crime, in the fight against escape and in the fight against money laundering. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, you will have to agree that in the curriculum of proposals submitted, in the curriculum of approved proposals and also in the curriculum of political priorities, I think that the Left Block still has some things to say on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u81	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say very quickly that we approve and agree with these three proposals, with these three measures or set of measures, in particular. We want to discuss them in the specialty, we think that the problem is much more in the system and therefore without changing the rules of the system it is not possible to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u82	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u83	But we also wanted — and we will, of course, discuss the means. Does the Tax Authority ( AT ), for example, but also other institutions, have the means and training needed to deal with these complex phenomena? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u84	For a second intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mrs Sara Madruga of the Costa speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not true what has been said here in relation to the position of the PSD and to the submission of proposals. It is not true that the PSD has so far submitted no proposals on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u86	So far? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u87	throughout the various legislatures, we have presented very varied proposals on this important matter of money laundering. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, let me tell you that this discussion and my intervention have already had a merit, which was finally to know the position of the Left Block on these matters: it is in favour of the transposition of this Directive, which seemed not to be correct. [[BE's protests.]] And I keep what you said about demagogy, Mrs. Demagogy. It's just that I'm tired of hearing the position of the Left Block always against the Free Zone of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u88	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u89	You're tired! Change the speech, find another face to propagate your ideology! [[BE's protests.]] Get another face!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u90	You're tired!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u91	The constant distortion of the facts and the constant desire to harm the interests of the Macedonians and the port-saintenses has already been tired of! Finally, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, you do not seem to have heard my speech. The PSD position on this matter is quite clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u92	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u93	I'm done now, Mr. President. The PSD is in favour, and by conviction, of the transposition of this Directive. We have already said so, but we find it good to say again that there was a draft resolution submitted by the PSD — which, as it was approved by a majority, also belongs to this House — which recommended that this Directive be transposed in 2016. If you do not know, go see the publication of the Resolution, what was said there and what was decided by this House, which was to anticipate the transposition of this Directive. And the truth is we are, at this moment, still discussed it - and we should already have - it transposed in 2016. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u94	We moved on to point 5 of the agenda on the general discussion of Bill No 73/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates the automatic exchange of mandatory information on cross-border prior tax decisions and prior arrangements on transfer prices and on taxation by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2376 and Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 881. To begin the debate and present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic is transposed into two directives, which are known as DAC 3 ( Directive on Administrative Cooperation ) and DAC 4, both extending, for the third and fourth time, as follows, the schemes provided for in the Directive on Administrative Cooperation in the field of taxation, a 2011 Directive. Both Directives address the same problem as the erosion of national tax bases by multinational business groups, which has also been the subject of further work by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), designated by BEPS ( Base Erosion and Profit Shifting ), which largely stems from the material solutions present in these Directives. What is at stake in this problem is the ability of multinational companies to move their taxable profits accounting from countries where they have economic activity, therefore, where these profits are generated, to other countries where they can hold these profits under more favourable tax schemes and thus reduce their overall tax burden and, in particular, the tax they pay in the country of origin. The 2011 Directive and its successive developments essentially seek to counteract this practice by automatic exchange of information. In other words, they intend to provide the tax administration of each country with the necessary mechanisms so that they can make corrections to the taxable results presented by multinational companies from the data that are obtained from abroad and effectively tax the income that is generated in their territory. It is also hoped that the presence of these mechanisms for correcting results will also discourage the practice of the international movement of taxable profits itself. Through this legislative initiative, it is established that Portugal will begin to exchange information on previous tax decisions, which basically corresponds to responses to requests for binding information, and to transfer pricing agreements, in both cases, where they are cross-border, and also information contained in country-by-country declarations, as contained in the legislation that entered into force last year, approved by the Assembly of the Republic. The approval of this legislation and the participation in the information exchange process will thus enable the Portuguese tax administration to receive information on foreign transactions that are developed by companies with transnational activity that also operate in Portugal, when these transactions benefit from transfer pricing agreements, to act under tax runs, i.e. binding information, and on activity in general under country-by-country information. Therefore, the Tax Authority will have better legal mechanisms to correct tax results presented by companies with cross-border activity and who use international tax planning mechanisms to exempt themselves from taxation determined by Portuguese law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u96	Mr Paulo Sá has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We are debating today a proposal for a law which aims to transpose into the national legal order of European Union directives on the exchange of information in the field of taxation. It is worth strengthening cooperation between the tax administrations of the Member States of the European Union through greater information sharing, as well as the intention to increase the requirement for the reporting obligations of multinational companies. However, the proposed measures are clearly insufficient to control and combat tax evasion and planning. The limitation of reporting obligations to multinational business groups with consolidated results of more than EUR 750 million is far from what is necessary. The threshold should be much lower and the declarative obligation should take account of the number of workers, as the CFP proposed in the European Parliament when discussing the Directives. With regard to transparency, it would also be necessary to go further, providing that reports per country should be made public. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, aggressive tax planning is unlawfully used by national and foreign companies operating in our country to reduce the payment of taxes due to the Portuguese State. These illegitimate practices must be tackled decisively, international cooperation for the abolition of tax havens, for the control of the movement of capital must be strengthened in order to make compulsory the taxation of companies in countries where profits are actually generated. These measures require consultation with other countries, but the need for such concerted action cannot be an excuse for national legislation to combat aggressive tax planning. See what happens to the companies of the PSI-20 ( Portuguese Stock Index), which resort to countries of the European Union with more favourable tax regimes not to pay the taxes due in Portugal, or see also the massive transfer of capital to tax havens, which the former Government, PSD / CDS, chose not to vote. In order to stop this bloody national wealth, it is necessary to implement the CFP's proposals on this matter, such as the worsening taxation of transfers to territories with clearly more favourable tax regimes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, there is no very high tax burden in Portugal; there is, indeed, an unfair distribution of tax effort with an excessive weight falling on the incomes of work and consumption of families and a scandalous promotion of large capital. This situation must be corrected, with the adoption of fiscal policy measures that alleviate taxes on workers, pensioners and pensioners, families, micro and small businesses and which pay more appropriately to large businesses and economic groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u98	Mr Cristovão Norte, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Matters relating to fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning are essential to avoid tax erosion and, no less important, to restore relationships of trust and transparency that are essential for citizens to recognize themselves in public authorities. However, in a framework of progressive globalisation, marked by the intense growth in trade and relations between companies with various jurisdictions, it is obvious that these matters gain renewed preponderance and opportunity, because, as is public and well known, there is often too much perverse and unjustified tax use, as a result of loopholes of the law, of discoordination between tax authorities and the existence of economic agents who often aim to break the law. In view of this picture, each country, by itself and unilaterally, is and will always be powerless to block these practices and protect its tax base. It may try to do so, but the results will be scarce and insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u100	You're making the usual apology!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u101	Sometimes paradoxically, as we know, we draw up complex and opaque tax mechanisms, which are designed to artificially reallocate profits to tax jurisdictions with strict rates and with little relation to the place where the gains are generated. From this point of view, what happens is that countries have no incentive to change their practices, because they change their practices and the other countries preserve their practices, so they do not have any tax or budgetary benefits; so they do not. Therefore, this circumstance, which is absolutely unfair for taxpayers and penalizers for small and medium-sized enterprises, distorts competition and motivates the well-founded misunderstanding of citizens, seems most often a tax chess game in which countries are almost always in checkmate. We simply realize, for example, that, when it comes to those who bear the tax effort, the most immovable and rigid factors, as a rule, support greater fiscal effort and support-CL- it will always - since there are no coordination mechanisms that are effective and seek to mitigate the perverse effects resulting from these circumstances. Therefore, the transposition of this Directive is objectively important. It has neither the ambition nor the vocation to solve all the problems, but we understand that it is an important and relevant step to which we associate in order to ensure greater transparency. Only in this way can the authorities benefit from adequate information to react and take important measures to strengthen their legal framework and meet these challenges, which are not only challenges with economic and financial expression, but are vital challenges for the perception of social justice and the safeguarding of democracy. In this regard, we are committed to deepening legislation and do so today as we did in the past, because of an imperative requirement, cooperating internationally in a multilateral context in favour of transparency and combating objectively censored policies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u102	For an intervention, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal aims at the automatic exchange of mandatory information. This means that, regardless of blockades or lack of goodwill on the part of each of the Member States, although we do not have a tax harmonisation — that is not what we want — we will have automatic and administrative cooperation between tax administrations, cooperation which aims to ensure more fiscal justice, the absence of the erosion effect of the tax base and the presence of the elements that are truly the basis of taxation: redistribution of income, increase of social well-being, help those who really need it. This is a chance that seems lateral, but it is central to this bill and, therefore, with regard to this initiative, we would like to congratulate the Government first and foremost. What we have in mind is that this process has been difficult, smooth, very difficult in European terms. We are all aware of the need for companies to make aggressive tax planning, because they feel they are in a globalised and highly competitive world. But they must not take this practice to the point where they have taken it — someone called it illegitimate, and we can call it illegitimate, but I would call it irregular, giving rise to real situations of unfair competition. It is important that this Directive fulfil its objective and this bill aims to help strengthen that spirit, which is expressed by all countries that have already transposed the Directive. This is the spirit of the European Union, but we must go further: in a globalised world, this spontaneous form of exchange of information between Member States in this field is important, but if it is true that the Directive goes beyond a set of technical blockades, which allows citizens to feel more defended and protected, in world terms, in fact, there are still many issues to be resolved. If this bill is really useful, at a particular time when national exports grow 24 % and maintain a growing trend, of course, we need to state that the equality of conditions of world competition must also be signed here. This work of the European Union, in which Portugal can also work very closely, should quickly see the light of the day and we must ensure that its applicability is as broad as possible in terms of geographical space. In conclusion, I would just like to stress that this legislation is particularly important, because, in any case, although there is a background in this context, the applicable sanction framework allows for ensuring its real effectiveness at the moment, and we can certainly continue to work in this direction in the field. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u104	For an intervention, Mr João Almeida has the floor, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill and the directives it transposes into the Portuguese legal order are part of a coordination of fiscal policies at the level of the European Union and an effort to tax efficiency by extending the base, seeking to ensure that gray areas, areas of escape between the various tax regimes, work in favour of those who want to use them exactly for that purpose. We have to look at these kinds of measures with great realism and realize that asking an economic agent who does not seek the tax regime that allows him to pay a lower tax is an absolutely unrealistic objective. Therefore, the effort must be to ask the economic agent to pay the tax due and to have mechanisms so that, if this does not happen, that economic agent may be punished for this infringement. That is totally inconceivable — using a famous term in this Parliament — if tax systems do not communicate with each other. If the tax systems of several countries where the same company or business group does not have their economic activity do not communicate with each other, of course, it is much easier for that economic group to make a planning that directs its assets, which directs its transfer pricing agreements in the sense of tax disbursing. What is happening through these Directives? It is found that the current system is unsatisfactory in two ways. Firstly, because the exchange of information is short, there is little exchange of information, the States exchange little information. And therefore one of the directives aims to increase this exchange of information and to force Member States to exchange more information than they do at the moment. On the other hand, it also has to do with the content of this information, with the extension of the scope of the information exchanged, i.e. to exchange more information and broaden the scope of that information. Both are positive objectives, which go to the problem detected but which fall short of what Mrs Jamila Madeira is still saying. In terms of directives, these positive rules are introduced within the European framework, but of course we know that there is a whole universe beyond the European Union where this planning is perfectly possible and many of these economic groups are not engaged in activity within the European Union. It is essential that the European Union also promote such initiatives with other countries, so that there is no harm to the European Union as a whole and a benefit of extra-European jurisdictions which, of course, with this regime, are excluded and can therefore benefit. That's a care you have to take. Taking what I said initially, that is, in the rationality of economic agents, another care that needs to be taken is that these systems are as effective as fiscal policy and that the taxes and taxes practised are fair and competitive. This is because however good the rules are, if tax systems are not competitive, these rules are always one way that economic agents have to look at and check where the regime is most favourable and try to steer their activity towards these most favourable regimes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u106	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is not much to prevent the conclusion and how to hide the problem. There is a problem of legitimacy in our tax system. It is not only in our own, but also in the European fiscal system and even in the world system, probably, but ours is the one we know best. It is because small taxpayers feel they can't run away — and, in the end, although they can't — but not only can they run away, as they still have a very heavy hand on their small failures or irregularities in the fulfilment of tax obligations. Anyone who takes one day to deliver a VAT or IRS declaration or in the special payment on account carries heavy fines, with intolerance, because we have a very demanding tax system. And I'm not saying that this is bad at the start; the problem is when this requirement is not replicated in whom it has the most income, that is, in whom it has the income needed to pay to lawyers and consultants who build tax planning schemes. It is because, then, we are here — I do not say the Left Block — with some pruritus to know where fiscal planning is legitimate, when it is no longer illegitimate, when it is that it ceases to be regular and becomes irregular. I would say that tax planning itself is always illegitimate and always brings a problem of injustice to the system, insofar as there are those who cannot and can do and are always reserved to those who can and can do. This applies to individual taxpayers and is directly reflected in the pyramid of our IRS. That is why we know that there are citizens in Portugal who gain much more and who have much more than what they declare, and that is a problem identified today even by former directors of the Tax Authority. But it is also reflected in companies, not only in small ones, which have the same difficulties, but also in large ones. There is a reason for all PSI 20 companies to be in Holland and Luxembourg. There is a reason for this: it is not because they spin the Luxembourg electric network or because they have many supermarkets in the Netherlands, but because they use these jurisdictions to make profits transfer and get to pay less taxes in Portugal. The truth is that all of them depend on the activity they have in Portugal, often on the incomes they earn through their activity in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u108	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u109	We have many doubts that simple information exchange mechanisms can solve this fundamental problem, because it is a problem that is rooted in the way of the operation of the economy, it is legitimized by the activities of lawyers, consultants, by how it is viewed as part of the business activity, which does not mean, once again, that these information exchanges are not essential to solve the problem. Again, I leave very brief questions: why EUR 750 million as a threshold, when it is clearly excessive? What is the problem of making these reports public, so that you can understand what the schemes are used and why there can be knowledge of these measures? But, more importantly, does Portugal have resources and human resources — people — trained to understand this information and to give it appropriate treatment? We have doubts that there has indeed been an investment in the Tax Authority so that professionals, who, we know, are very good and do so much,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u110	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u111	... but that they need to have the means and training, they can implement these measures that we are discussing today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u112	For a second speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u113	Mr President, very briefly, I shall speak to congratulate the consensus generated around these proposals and to mention only two points. As regards the EUR 150 million threshold, I note that we can only determine the threshold of information we sent to other countries, we cannot determine what would be interesting to us, which was the threshold of information we received and therefore adopted the threshold of the Directive. There is no advantage in adopting a lower threshold in Portuguese law. With regard to the final issue put forward by Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I must say that this is a new process for the Tax Authority and what the Government has done is to try to ensure the strengthening of both human resources and material resources in those central units of the Tax Authority that deal with these issues. This is an ongoing process, which is not completed, because, in our understanding, this way is a fundamental pillar of the action of AT in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u114	Mrs. Members, after discussion, in general, of Bill No 73 / XIII ( 2 ). a ), we will move to point six, which consists in the general discussion of draft law No 507 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defence of transparency and integrity in sports competitions ( PSDs ). To present the legislative initiative of your party, Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the recent approval of amendments to the legal regime of criminal responsibility for the manipulation and corruption of sports competitions, a very important step was taken by the Assembly in defending the values of ethics, loyalty and sporting truth. When this initiative was taken, we made it clear that it was the first part of a more comprehensive process of strengthening mechanisms to protect the transparency and integrity of sports competitions. The defence of transparency and sporting truth to all must mobilize and, when new realities, such as betting, make room for citizens, we all have a duty to anticipate problems and to act in a way that prevents and combats the risks of addiction. The fundamental question in these risks is financial flows in sports societies and, as such, we must demand maximum transparency from them. Transparency and sports truth are crucial to building trust, and this is the way that everyone should join us. The State cannot cross its arms and cease to contribute systematically and on various fronts to the defense and safeguarding of integrity in sport. We can't wait for the stolen house to put locks on the door! The current climate of crispation, and even violence, which is seen in the world of sport, has to deserve an adequate and committed response, in which the increase of transparency and the defense of the integrity of competitions play a decisive role. It is with this focus that we propose changes in five of the most relevant legal regimes in the field of sport. We have therefore defined the legal mechanisms necessary for public scrutiny of the qualifying shares in the social capital of each sports society; we have established the need for sporting sanctions for non-compliance with these mechanisms, making it a condition for these sports societies to be subject to sporting bets; we strengthen the legal prohibition of holding domain positions in the social capital more than a participating sports society in the same competition; we have established the legal obligation, in professional competitions, to advertise the reports of the arbitrators, as well as the acts and grounds for their classification — and we welcome the initiative of the Portuguese Football Federation, which, last week, has already taken this measure within its Federation; we enshrine the obligation of all sports federations to approve and implement programs to protect the integrity of competitions, without which cannot benefit from any public funding. In summary, demand and transparency for the service of truth and integrity in competitions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that with this proposal and with these new measures, we are strengthening the foundations for a more transparent and reliable sport. Transparency and trust are the best antidote against violence and a balsam for defending the most noble values of sport! We believe that, in the Commission's field of expertise, it is possible, with your contributions, to go even further in the fight without truce that must be given to cheating and opacity, which only interest those who do not want a clean and true sport. This fight summons us all! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u116	Mr António Cardoso, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese legislative building in the field of sport has always deserved particular attention and careful attention from the Socialist Party. We always seek to pour out the best legal solutions, with the clear aim of providing and allowing the best treatment of sports people and sports agents, in order to increase national sports. The recent approval of Law No 13 / 2017 of 2 May, constituted an important step in strengthening and deepening measures to prevent and combat behaviour that inexorably corroborate the sporting truth and all the credibility of the sport of competition. This approval was worth putting the country in line with best practices at European level. We point out at this headquarters the changes that have led to the worsening of the criminal frameworks associated with the crimes of corruption in sport, the access to more effective means of research, the forecast of new coercion measures, the creation of the crime of undue receipt of advantage in the context of sport and the crime of anti-sport betting that reinforces the ethical requirement and sporting practice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Bill No 507 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), the authorship of the PSD, which aims at the transparency and integrity of sporting evidence, deserves the continued availability of the Socialist Party as an instrument for the search for new and appropriate regulatory frameworks. Indeed, we understand that there are reasons for redoubled attention to the evidence of risk factors with direct involvement in sports activity. On the amendments contained in the draft law under consideration, we note that they must fully achieve their objectives, including prevention and deterrence, and for this to happen, the involvement of all sports officials and public actors in the field of sport is essential. We stress that the promotion of truth, loyalty and correction in sports activity should be viewed cross-sectionally, seeking to involve not only sports agents but also other publics, sensitizing and clarifying these themes, also involving educational communities. With regard to promotion to other audiences, it will also make sense to join the approach of the need to prevent adding behaviors in the context of sports betting. The initiative under consideration involves a change to five diplomas. As such, it should be duly assessed in the field of specialty, after an extended auscultation with sports agents and sports collectives, in particular with sports federations with public utility, because we cannot forget the powers and powers of a public nature delegated to it by the State of inherent implementation. This means that once there is a delegation of powers and powers, it is up to the legislator to give the necessary legal stability for its exercise. Thus, and after this hearing, it is possible to see the extent that these changes can lead to the strengthening of transparency obligations in investment obligations in defence and integrity programmes in sports commissions and whether or not they are worthy of innovative and appropriate legislative treatment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u118	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u119	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will not imperil this initiative, reserving for the specialty its presentation and discussion of its own contributions and others which may result from the auscultation of the associative movement and the consequences and the evaluation of these proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u120	Mr Diana Ferreira, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We follow the concerns that have been raised at various times regarding the need to ensure transparency and integrity of sports competitions and we believe it is important to take action to combat sports corruption in its various dimensions. On the initiative presented by the PSD here today, there are some doubts that we need to clarify and that we therefore need to put in this debate. With regard to the special online gambling tax, in particular the provision of part of that tax for information and education programmes, we have deep reservations about this solution. We have nothing against the existence of funds for these information and education programmes, and we understand that there must even be a public responsibility, but we cannot agree with the way the proposal is being implemented. It is that this support, using online game money, can work as an incentive to the online game itself, with all that it has contrary to the values of sport and with the danger that it can mean — even corruption — to increase online bets to, from there, increase revenues from there. We also have reservations about the proposal on which it is a condition for the allocation of support to any entity for the approval and implementation of information and education programmes relating to the protection of the integrity of competitions, the fight against doping, corruption and the addiction of results, in the amendment to Decree-Law No 273/2009, because this amendment involves federations, clubs and a set of other associations of different dimensions and financial realities, and we can also risk distorting the need for such programs itself. Do we not run the risk of these programs only because they are a condition for the allocation of these same support rather than because they are important programs to be implemented? We understand that a way of linking entities to the implementation of these programmes should be found, without, of course, questioning their survival and not exacerbating difficulties often experienced by these sports-related entities. With regard to information and education programmes, it is important to clarify whether these programmes are complementary to some that already exist today, if they are interconnected, if they are substitutes, how these programmes were intended to be implemented. On the reports of the arbitrators and their publicity, we believe that predicting this in law can be an introduction into responsibilities that are of the federations, it is a matter of sport and competence of the federations, and until the Portuguese Football Federation itself has announced the intention of the arbitrators' reports to be public, from the next sporting period. We are available to do an analysis of this project in the specialty and to contribute to further improved solutions from here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u122	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u123	I shall conclude by accompanying these concerns, Mr President, we must not fail to say that the reality of sports corruption affects several different entities and institutions, and that it is not disconnected from the path made over the years, from the mercantilization of sports and sports competitions, which also deserves us a reflection so that this path can be reversed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u124	Mr Luís Monteiro, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time we can discuss these issues in the Assembly of the Republic, but unfortunately not always for the best reasons. The galloping growth of violence and corruption in sport has been forcing various parliamentary committees of the Assembly of the Republic to discuss this matter. Several Members and several Members. Members have already been in these hearings, were in these discussions, were in these working groups and, in fact, the realities that have often been presented to us by federations, by associations of arbitrators, by associations of football coaches, by athletes themselves, deserve our attention and should also deserve an active position by the Assembly of the Republic and the various parliamentary groups to resolve these problems. The Social Democratic Party presents to us today Bill No 507 / XIII ( 2. a ), which compiles a set of measures to defend transparency and integrity in sports competitions and the Left Block not only supports the reason why the Democratic Social Party presents this set of solutions but also, in general, much of the paths that are pointed out, although we can hold a discussion in the field of specialty, where we can find consensus and majority to just improve part of the measures that are placed on the table. The limitation of participation in a sports society seems clear and clear, ensures transparency in sports management. The issue of transparency in capital shares is a fundamental issue. We will not open a debate on the issue of offshores, but it has a direct implication. The position of the Left Block is known and, therefore, despite this part of the debate, this is an important step forward. As regards the issue of the reports of the arbitrators to be public, if it is true that we can press, which we can try to regulate so that federations can guarantee advertising, the Left Block does not see with a bad eye that there is legislation that guarantees such publicity and, therefore, because of transparency, the legislation itself obliges these federations to comply with this, and this is also a matter of transparency that seems particularly important to us. As for the issue of anti-corruption campaigns and online gambling, we share some of the doubts that have been put on the table. We will never close the door to awareness campaigns against corruption and for ethics in sport. We need to study whether the money that is taken from online games should or should not serve for these campaigns, because we may be creating a lever for online games to have an even more media pressure and more participation, and we do not think that public campaigns should just and only start.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u126	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u127	I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that on the left side of the Left Block there is complete openness to discuss all these details in committee, indeed, as we have already been doing in working groups and in other documents which were discussed here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u128	For an intervention, Mr João Almeida has the floor, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative that the PSD brings here today has much to do with the relationship between sports competitions and sports truth. We know that various vices can affect this sporting truth and lead to competitions being disrupted or not respected or to lose their social value. What happens is that, unfortunately, in our country, some of these addictions, some of these phenomena, have in recent times been repeatedly visible and demonstrated and have even been debated publicly, I would say, without due care and without due depth. Mediatization of some of these discussions has led not to the construction of solutions that could effectively lead to a prevalence of sports truth, but to a deepening, yes, of the crispations, rivalries, of the fights, often among protagonists, which have nothing to do with the sports phenomenon itself. The legislator is asked whether, in view of this reality, he should refrain from having any intervention or whether to participate and the answer is not simple, because there is a principle of subsidiarity which is fundamental, mainly with regard to sports federations, which have their role from the legal point of view, which are recognised in their public utility and which, of course, have the monopoly, I would say, of the regulation of their competitions. But this regulation is always subject to the law, and the law must determine the fundamental principles that guide all this type of regulation in each of the federations and in each of the sports competitions. The role that these federations have played, for example, the Portuguese Football Federation, which has made very significant contributions not only at regulatory level but also with suggestions for legislative amendments that can be made. Parliament has recently taken an important step through the legal regime of criminal responsibility for the manipulation and corruption of sports competitions. At the time, the PSD Parliamentary Group and the CDS Parliamentary Group pointed out that that was not the only way we could contribute to the resolution of this problem, not only because, in some of the concrete solutions that were enshrined in the law, we were left out of what we could have gone, but because we could go further. The PSD today brings a bill in this direction and the CDS is available not only to discuss it in the specialty, to listen to all the actors, to respect the principle of subsidiarity — which I have already mentioned — to maintain the primacy of sports truth, but above all to assume what a Parliament can never fail to assume, which is the responsibility to legislate prudently and effectively in order to solve the problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u130	For a second speech, Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, I would like to thank the contributions which the parties have made to this debate and to reinforce the importance of, as a matter of speciality, we will all be able to unite around an objective that is central and decisive for Portuguese sport, until it is true that, the stronger the decision, the more we, ladies and gentlemen, will mobilize the final decision, the stronger the legislation and the greater the signal that we will give to society in order to clearly say that we are against cheating and what we want, yes, is transparency and sporting truth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u132	We have thus concluded the discussion on the sixth point of our agenda. We now proceed to the discussion of Bill No. 512 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the gender impact assessment scheme for regulatory acts ( PS ). To present this initiative on behalf of your Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group brings back to this House a legislative initiative which had already been presented in the past legislature and which, unfortunately, was rejected with the votes of the then right-wing majority and which we hope today will have a different outcome. The transversalization of gender perspective is a matter that is slowly being integrated into public policies. And I say « slowly» because since 1995 the date of the Beijing Conference has been recognized as fundamental and structural for the construction of all public policies the introduction of gender perspective. Since the Treaty of Amsterdam, this is a fundamental component of the evaluation which the institutions of the European Union themselves make of the matter, and there have also been scripts for a long time to assess the impact of gender on the production of normative acts. And between us since 2005 the Council of Ministers regulation foresees the need for prior assessment of gender impact and, since the Fourth National Plan for Equality, not only the need to carry out the evaluation, but also the need to invest in the training and training of public administration technicians in order to do so. Therefore, what we have reviewed and resumed today is a regulatory framework that helps this task, identifying, in a relatively clear way, what the objectives of the evaluation should be, how should we proceed and try to identify the starting situation, forecasting the results to be achieved and the impact assessment, trying to identify whether the gender impact is negative, neutral or positive and possibly transforming the plan of the proposals under discussion. But we must also recognise that there must be a significant dose of flexibility in implementing this measure. Obviously, we know that there are urgent legislative initiatives and regulatory production that will not possibly coincide with the possibility of carrying out a gender impact assessment, but it is always possible to carry out the successive evaluation in these cases. We also know that there are diplomas with a degree of simplicity or a repetitive character that can dispense it, but they also do not lead to the fact that we cannot then make a successive assessment of the impact. We therefore seek a balanced regime, a regime that can be a useful tool for public administration technicians and for legislators, not only those of this House, but also those of the Government and possibly those of the regional assemblies, if they choose to follow the same maximums, to standardise how they seek to improve the quality of legislation and to take into account this increasingly evident and positive need to cross-sectional gender perspective in normative production work and in the assessment work of what we do daily. This does not mean that we are producing perfect laws, it does not mean that we can eradicate discrimination or that we can mitigate, in future, all the problems that legislation sometimes continues to entail in the realization of equality. But at least we have an instrument that works as an alert, which alerts the legislator, in certain circumstances, that, perhaps, he must change the direction, he must better correct what is proposed and must "correct the shot" when he manifestly fails to achieve his objectives. This instrument also serves as a warning that, whenever diplomas that do not directly relate to the promotion of gender equality fail and, clearly, create a situation of imbalance with negative impact, one can hold hands in time and correct the legislative initiative, so that we can produce better laws, more structured, in a scientific way whenever possible and studied whenever necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u134	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block welcomes and accompanies the initiative that the Socialist Party brings here. Equality between women and men is one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic and, as such, it is the responsibility of the State to promote it in all areas of social life. Our social organization invests men and women with gender roles, which greatly contributes to political decisions that are apparently neutral in terms of equality that affect men and women differently. The action platform adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing urged governments to integrate gender perspectives into all policies and programmes and to analyse their possible effects on women and men. Since then, there have been several States that have printed this gender perspective, and Portugal has been no exception. But it is important to retain — and from there our agreement with the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party to extend this concern to all legislative production and to the development of the various measures, programmes and actions — that the adoption of the principle of gender mainstreaming is essential for the fulfilment of equality between men and women, and that providing gender-sensitive policies requires this analysis and this assessment of its effects. Therefore, gender impact assessment should take into account the different starting conditions between men and women, the different realities experienced by gender, especially regarding access and goods and services, and the existence of specific obstacles or differentiated needs between men and women. In fact, you can only act effectively in the reality you know. Gender inequalities are still strongly permeated in our society and it is therefore essential that they do not perpetuate themselves and strengthen themselves by the development of policies that do not take these same inequalities into account. The evaluation of gender impact is effectively a privileged tool for the cross-cutting of gender perspective, because, by allowing a higher level of information about social reality, it contributes to better legislative production and to the design of policies and actions that effectively walk in the direction of gender equality. For all this, the Left Block welcomes and obviously accompanies this initiative of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u136	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has taken up the two initiatives it presented in the previous Parliament and has again submitted them to Parliament. The arguments that were then presented by the PSD, in the previous parliamentary discussion, remain today, due to a question of consistency and because the PS made the alert table left by the PSD. Indeed, the criticisms that were then made by the various parties did not deserve any welcome. As is obvious and has been widely demonstrated, for the PSD, whether in power or opposition, the promotion of equality between men and women is a fundamental objective of public policies. The transversality of these matters requires, in fact, that the work of the sovereign bodies and the Public Administration ensure that their decisions take account of and take account of the situation of men and women. However, for the PSD, the assessment of the gender impact of regulatory acts is based on a commitment to gender equality training at the level of the various ministries and all stakeholders in the legislative process. This is, in fact, the path chosen by the National Plan for Equality, currently in force. The evaluation regime proposed in the Socialist Party bill is impractical and contains—i.e., it maintains— concepts that cannot be accurately measured and transformed into indicators, being these concepts based on subjective valuations. I can give some examples: concepts such as « negative traditional social roles » and « individual realities of men and women », as set out in Article 3. that of the diploma, are concepts that, by themselves, end an ambiguity such that they are not possible, nor able, to measure, to monitor or to operate. In addition, the proposed regime is also unclear as to whether it may not comply with this regulation, particularly if the impact is considered negative. Is this binding assessment or not? When it is expected that the previous impact assessment may be dispensed by the responsible entity, there is no clear definition of which entity is responsible. In fact, Pedro Delgado Alves himself assumed, in the discussion that took place in 2014 on the same subject, that some issues were not clearly regulated. Now, it is not understood that the same PS that recognized the weaknesses of the 2014 proposal again today puts it to discussion in the same molds and without changes. Where this scheme is intended to apply to a universe as extensive as all the normative acts prepared by the Central, Regional and Local Administration, as well as by the Assembly of the Republic, there are doubts. Are there necessary resources for your compliance? Is it essential that all the authorities in this country have techniques and the ability to produce gender impact assessments in all the normative acts they produce? If this weighting is not done, we risk that this PS proposal is just a manifesto of good intentions. If it is to make a dead letter of the proposal, then this is a very bad service that lends itself to the legitimate and necessary defence of gender equality. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u138	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The evaluation of the impact of gender on normative acts, i.e. the verification in each law, in the broad sense, of what affects or does not the principle of equal opportunities between women and men and, more effectively, that equality between one and the other is a good thing, is a plan of all and is absolutely decisive in the construction of good public policies. It is important not only because of the issue itself, of course, but also because of the development of the sustainability of our society and, ultimately, because of the demographic issue, which, moreover, have insisted on ignoring and in which the CDS will not cease to persist. As has already been said, this is not a new issue, because the various regiments of the Councils of Ministers of successive governments have already enshrined it and even because it is also enshrined in various plans for gender equality a specific training for the legislative process in this area. In addition, this is not a new matter because it is the second time the PS presents it. Although it does not suffer from the same evils of the past—until we no longer live in the exceptional period in which we lived then and because there is now room to dedicate ourselves more earnestly and carefully to this question— several technical doubts remain to be answered. And these various technical doubts have to do with the ambiguity of the solutions, with the difficulty of operationalization and supervision and, in addition, it is not clear what the consequences of the absence of the evaluation are not made or whether a poor assessment is made. In addition, there is one issue that concerns us and has to do with the successive evaluation. We would like to see what effect this assessment has on the effectiveness of the act. That is, there seems to be a sword on the laws which are produced and which are in force and which, at any time, can be altered. For those who defend enormous legislative stability and for those who defend that they do not produce any more legislative acts, this has much to be said to them. But the intention is positive and we are willing to give you the benefit of doubt. What we believe is that there may be a good intention in this matter, but that it does not happen again in a proclaiming and propaganda act that this government has already been habitual to us and that it has no more consequences than beautiful and pompous announcements, that remain in the role and that, for this reason, they end up gaining momentum. An example of this is the Simplex, which announced with great pump and circumstance that it was the great girl of Mr. Prime Minister's eyes and, one year back, and in the month in which this program theoretically ends, the Simplex presents an execution rate of only 30 % : of the 255 measures planned, only a little more than 60 are completed and there is 191 to start. Therefore, do not ask for our favourable vote and our commitment to come to do the same, i.e. to proclaim great intentions and then do nothing. What we ask you is that if you want to do something that you see, then do it, but do it with consequences and tell us how you can operationalize all this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u140	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the PS proposals under discussion today, we would like to mention some notes. Firstly, I would like to say that assessing the economic and social impact and the impact of the difference between men and women in the normative acts should, firstly, base and base any political action and decision. Therefore, to realize the impact of legislative measures alone does not seem negative to us, even more often when we defend it on subjects that are very important. Over the years we have been warning about the need for, for example, to realize the impact of regulatory acts on the living conditions of people and the measures that arise, in particular, from the State budgets. We would like to recall here that there has never, in fact, been a political will to translate this into the concrete impact of assessing these measures. In 2013, a proposal from the CFP was adopted unanimously in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 47/2013, which provided that the Government would draw up, within six months, an assessment report on the impact of measures resulting from the State budgets for 2010, 2011 and 2012 on the increase and worsening of poverty in its multiple dimensions, on the phenomena of social exclusion, examining in particular its impact on the situation of women and children. They are measures of the State budgets for 2010, 2011 and 2012, because this proposal was voted in 2013, but which still did not have a concrete weighting on the part of the previous government and, with regard to the current government, did not exist either. That is why I want to say that we have some doubts, but not about bias, about the importance of focusing solely on the impact assessment on the difference between men and women. There is an economic and social impact assessment in which the evaluation of public policies should be based and we believe that we should not just exhaust ourselves in these matters. I also want to say that, on some issues, social security statistics have been reflecting this difference for some years according to age, sex and even geographical areas in the country that allow us to draw important conclusions when discussing these matters. On the concrete proposal we have some doubts about the difficulty of applying it. Until, in general, there must be a participation, a possibility of intervention by all those concerned within the framework of the Constitution and the legislative act, but we believe that the bill creates difficulties and creates so many specificities that it can even delay the legislative process itself. However, this should also be taken into account in order to speed up the mechanisms that are proposed. We would also like to say that, on these matters, we will be voting in favour of the proposal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure which provides that, where possible, the technical notes accompanying the legislative initiatives should have this analysis. We have more doubts about the draft law and, therefore, we will abstain from the PS proposal because, in fact, we believe that both in form and in content end up giving a centrality to a matter by turning it off from the other factors which, in our view, are decisive. I repeat: economic and social issues cannot be disconnected from this reality and therefore from the CFP we will continue to work towards realizing the decisive impact of public policies on its various dimensions. In fact, it is no less to reflect that the interim report implementing the V National Plan for Gender Equality, Citizenship and Non-Discrimination ( 2014 - 2017 ) on the promotion of public policies in the field of equality in public administration is far from what is necessary and there is still much to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u142	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u143	I'm done, Mr. President. Therefore, our proposal is that we continue to work in this direction and that our vote will be the one I announced. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u144	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that during the next 5 minutes you can still vote in the two elections that are taking place in room D. Maria for the National Health Council ( CNS ) and for the Superior Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals ( CSTAF ). Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank all the speeches and all the contributions, and I would like to make a very telegraphic note of the various elements in question. The Socialist Party does not make a table of PSD arguments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u146	You!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u147	You!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u148	He did not agree with them at the time and continues to disagree. It has always underlined, yes, the complete availability, which we maintain and reiterate, of, in the specialty, deepening and improving aspects that may be the subject of translation. Now, indeed, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, the concepts that are used are - not 20 years ago by the European Commission - the concepts that are contained in Spanish legislation, are the concepts that are proposed in the Beijing Declaration. The negative impact of gender is a concept that seems to me to be easy to demonstrate and aspects such as "gender stereotypes" or the assessment of what are "negative social roles" are to the evidence and satiety shown in literature on the subject. Therefore, they are scientifically demonstrable aspects. There is also a contradiction in the speech of Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes. On the one hand, there is doubt whether the concept is binding and would therefore indicate a concern of being excessively costly. On the other hand, they say that he is excessively ambitious. What he is, essentially, is flexible, i.e., is not a factor that manages invalidate—and this is the question that Mrs Vania Dias da Silva recently put—, neither to the successive evaluation nor to the impact assessment, is an instrument. And it is an instrument that, being available, is being carried out and allowing citizens to control whether the legislator has taken care of the gender impact when he has drawn up the standards, makes it more demanding not only the legislator when he develops them but also the citizens when he writes that same activity carried out by bodies with legislative competence. For example, at the level of the authorities, it is another incentive for the authorities to take advantage of the need and availability to draw up equality plans and train, which is also provided for in Article 16. The diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u149	Mr. Deputies, you have to finish by now you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u150	I conclude, Mr President, by noting that, on our part, there is total availability for a structured debate in the specialty and we even hope, as Mrs Rita Rato suggested, that it may evolve into other types of impact assessment, and that it is far from exhausting the needs of the legislator. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u151	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will then enter the voting period, but we will proceed to the voting quorum only at 17 hours and 30 minutes because it is time to close the votes and there are Members who are currently waiting to vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, have not been able to register will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that it is considered to be present at the meeting. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 208 meetings, to which Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS is added, by means of 209 Members, and therefore we have quorum to vote. We begin by voting No 297 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Manuel Évora ( CDS-PP, PS, and PSD ). I request Mr. Secretary, Antonio Carlos Monteiro, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last April 30th the engineer Manuel Évora. Formed in Agricultural Engineering by the University of Évora, Manuel Évora founded Portugal Fresh - Association for the Promotion of Fruits, Vegetables and Flowers, in 2010, and was its president since 2015. He was executive manager of the Luís Vicente Group since 2005 and in 2014 was distinguished with the Prize Figure of the Year of Production in Masters of Distribution, awards awarded annually by the Distribution magazine Today. Manuel Évora was a great example of tenacity and optimism, which for years fought the disease without ever being overcome. In love with agriculture and agri-food, he was very proud in our country, which he considered to have "the best fruit in the world", and he devoted himself to increasing our exports. We saw it vibrating when exports from the agricultural sector passed the barrier of EUR 1000 million and aspired to double this number by 2020. He worked to open up international markets and, once opened, to promote national products. He was a man of imparable qualities, total delivery and inexhaustible spirits, which made him an emblematic figure of the agri-food sector. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Manuel Évora and addresses his family, friends and all those who work daily for a better agricultural sector his condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u153	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 297 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on vote No 298 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of the former Counsellor Dr. António Pires de Lima ( CDS-PP, PS and PSD ). I request Mr. Secretary, Antonio Carlos Monteiro, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On May 6, Dr. António Pires de Lima died, at 80 years of life of integrity, frontality and dedication to his country, to his own and to the exercise of justice. Born in Barcelos, graduated in Law from the University of Lisbon, he enrolled as a lawyer on September 30, 1960 — which was not the first day of a vocation, was the beginning of a career dedicated to the rights and rights of all. He served the Order of Advocates in various positions and positions, such as Vogal of the Lisbon District Council and Vice-President of the General Council, having been elected 21. the Bank in 1999. As a carpenter and lawyer, he lived and exercised in an exemplary manner what is stipulated in Article 3 paragraphs. the Statutes of the Order : « defend the rule of law and the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens and collaborate in the administration of justice» and « safeguard for the social function, dignity and prestige of the profession of lawyer, promoting the initial and permanent training of lawyers and respect for the values and principles of ethics. Do not keep on seeking. ” Man of principles, Antonio Pires de Lima thought of the profound strength of convictions and always said what he thought. Without subterfuges, without concealments, he was a direct and frontal man, who welcomed all opinions but did not refuse to express his views. As a carpenter, as a lawyer and as a friend, he was an example of verticality, with the strength of his convictions and with the strength of his faith, supported by the family that built and accompanied him to the end. The Assembly of the Republic presents the sincere condolences to its family, friends and colleagues for the death of Antonio Pires de Lima. Portugal lost one of its most distinguished lawyers — a man who defended the value of justice, the construction of the country and the lives of its citizens. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to associate myself with this vote and express my condolences to the family, which is present in the gallery. Let us then vote on vote No 298/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of vote No 300 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Antonio Gomes da Costa ( PSD and PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « António Gomes da Costa died, one of the most distinguished figures in the Portuguese community in Brazil. Born in Póvoa de Varzim, on January 27, 1934, he settled in Rio de Janeiro many years ago, where he graduated in Economics from the University of Rio de Janeiro State and Legal Sciences from Candido Mendes University, later distinguished by intense cultural, associative and business activity. He has held leadership positions in relevant Luso-Brazilian institutions, with emphasis on the positions of President of the Royal Portuguese Office of Reading, President of the Royal and Benemerita Portuguese Society Relief Box D. Pedro V, President of the Portuguese Literary High School, President of the Federation of Portuguese and Luso-Brazilian Associations, President of the Royal Society Club Gynastics Portuguese, President of the Portuguese Foundation, Secretary-General of the Brazilian-Portugal Cultural Foundation and member of the Brazilian Historical and Geographic Institute, the Academy of Lisbon Sciences, the Portuguese Academy of History and the Historical Institute of Santa Catarina. Given the importance of its role in relations between Portugal and Brazil and the excellence of its action in the most varied domains of public life in the two countries, it was distinguished with the degrees of Grand Officer of the Order of Infante D. Henrique and Great-Cruz of the Order of Agricultural and Industrial Merit of the Portuguese Republic and of the Commander of the Order of the White River, Officer of the Order of Military and Official Merit of the Order of Aeronautical Merit of the Federal Republic of Brazil. For these reasons, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 11 May 2017, expresses its public regret over the death of Antonio Gomes da Costa and presents to his family his most heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u157	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]] We turn to vote No 301 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Armando Baptista-Bastos ( President of RA, PS, BE, PCP, The Greens, PSD and PAN ), who will be read by Ms. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of Armando Baptista-Bastos. Baptista-Bastos was born in Lisbon, a city that has always loved, on February 27, 1934. He did his studies at the School of Decorative Arts António Arroio and the French High School, and soon embraced the writing through journalism and literature. As a journalist, he worked and collaborated in numerous titles that have made the history of the press in recent decades: The Century, The Diary, Popular Diary, Newspaper, Public, Journal of Business, Correio da Manhã or Saturday. His literary work has earned him several awards: the PEN Clube de Novelística Award ( 1988 ), the Prize for the Criticism of the Portuguese Association of Literary Critics ( 2002 ) or the Clube Literário do Porto Prize ( 2006 ). Journalism and literature were always the mirror of their writing quality and civic militancy. He was also deeply connected to the appearance of the so-called ‘New Portuguese Cinema’, participating, in particular, in one of his founding works, Belarus, by Fernando Lopes. He was not indifferent to anything and no one was indifferent to him. After being fired from the newspaper The Century, for its involvement in the campaign of Humberto Delgado, was fired from the RTP. Moreira Batista, then National Secretary of Information, will have said, about Baptist-Bastos, that it was ‘ an adversary of the regime. ’ A phrase that, coming from within that regime, only honours the civic courage of Armando Baptista-Bastos. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic notes with sadness its death, conveying its sorrow to its family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u159	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask the Secretary, Mr Moisés Ferreira, to proceed with the reading of vote No 304 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a) — regretting the death of 268 people in the Mediterranean and condemnation of the refusal of emergency rescue (BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It caused worldwide shock to the news of the death of 268 people, including 60 children, left without relief in good time by the Italian and Maltese authorities, who pushed among themselves the responsibility of salvation. These people died in a shipwreck 20 nautical miles from an Italian military ship, 61 nautical miles from the Italian island of Lampedusa and 118 nautical miles from Malta. The world was aware, this week, that on 11 October 2013 the painful negligence of European authorities led to one of the darkest episodes of European history. The Mediterranean Sea has become a huge cemetery. European governments, European institutions and NATO already knew this when they made migration and refugee support policies even more restrictive. Only in 2016, 7800 migrants lost their lives in the Mediterranean, at the gates of Europe. In 2017, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, more than 1300 people fleeing war, death, hunger and poverty, who legitimately seek us to find a future, did not reach European territory and died in the crossing. The facts and the policy that led to the unaided shipwreck in which 268 Syrian citizens died exposes the insensitivity of European refugee policy. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its deep sorrow for all the refugees who died through the Mediterranean Sea and condemns the neglect of the Italian and Maltese authorities who, on 11 October 2013, protected the rescue to Syrian shipwrecks, leaving 268 men, women and children to death. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the votes that have just been adopted, I would ask all of us to make a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we turn to vote No 296 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings by 1. the May- Major Day in the struggle of workers ( PCP ), which will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Many countries over these 131 years will have landmarks and historical achievements to mark with origin in the struggles launched in May, starting with the American operary which, in the 1st. the May 1886, despite the chacina carried out by the authorities, began the march for the conquest of the 8 hours of daily work and 48 weekly. In Portugal are historical landmarks in the struggle of workers on 1. the May 1919, which led to the fixing of 8 hours a day and 48 hours a week for trade and industry ; the 1962, the day on which the workers'greatest struggle against fascism took place and in which the strikes of the agricultural workers of Ribatejo and Alentejo intensified until the 8 hours of work in the fields; the 1974, on which the workers and the people went out on the street supporting the Revolution of 25 April ; and the 1982, in which the workers of Porto, under the repression of the intervention police who murdered two workers and injured more than 100, defended freedom of demonstration in the Praça da Liberdade. In 2017, workers take into their hands the defense of their rights and develop numerous processes of struggle that translate discontent, affirm claims, rest and conquer rights. Increasing wages; reducing and harmonizing hours with the lives of workers and their families; creating and guaranteeing jobs with rights and combating precariousness; unlocking and dynamizing bargaining and collective bargaining; revoking the serious standards of labour law; defending the public services and social functions of the State, are claims proclaimed in this 1. the May 2017, in continuity of reasons why 131 years after the events of Chicago, 1. May continues to be a day of struggle in the four corners of the world. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting on 5 May 2017, welcomes 1. the May one and affirms the need to safeguard the rights and interests of workers. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u163	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to vote No 299 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis, on the occasion of the centenary of the apparitions of Fatima and the canonization of Jacinta and Francisco Marto ( CDS-PP ). I ask the Secretary, Mr Carlos Monteiro, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Next May 12, 2017 will begin the pastoral visit of Pope Francis to Portugal, within the centenary of the apparitions of Fatima. Pope Francis' visit is of special significance to our country. Of course, because Catholics are the largest religious community in Portugal, but above all because the leader of the Catholic Church has been one of the unmistakable figures of this century, by the humanist expression of his word, by the ideals of tolerance, equality and fidelity to the values in which he believes and by the ethical and spiritual example he represents. Jorge Bergoglio's ministry as the Supreme Pontiff has been translated into the multiplication of gestures of peace for the awareness that humanity is truly realized only in justice and brotherhood. ‘The Earth is our common home and we are all brothers’ (Evangelii Gaudium, 183 ). While the Bishop of Rome has demonstrated a unique freedom that challenges institutions to a deeper and more radical humanism with a view to ‘ building a better world. ’ In 2017, addressing the leaders of the European Union, on the occasion of the Extraordinary European Council which noted 60. the anniversary of the Treaty of Rome stated: ‘The one who governs must discern the roads of hope, identify the concrete paths in order to ensure that the significant steps taken so far are not lost, but are a burden on a long and fruitful path. ’ It is a unique personality and an unmistakable voice in the current international context, which has gathered the admiration of many and the respect of all. by matching his visit with the canonization of Jacinta and Francisco Marto, the Pope's travel to Portugal represents not only a recognition of the universal dimension of Fatima – that this year commemorates the centenary of apparitions – but also the affirmation of our heritage on a global scale, regardless of the religious convictions of each. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the visit of Pope Francis. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u165	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the Deputies of PS Isabel Alves Moreira and Isabel Santos and abstains from BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and the Deputies of PS Fernando Anastácio, João Galamba, Luís Moreira Testa, Paulo Pisco, Bacelar de Vasconcelos and Wanda Guimarães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u166	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u167	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u168	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u169	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote on vote No 305 / XIII ( 2. ( a) — Congratulations on the action of Jorge Mario Bergoglio, Pope Francis (PAN), which will be read by Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Francisco, born as Jorge Mario Bergoglio, or 266. the Pope of the Catholic Church and current head of State of the Vatican has taken on a totally innovative attitude in the refusal of dogma and doctrine, as they have always shown themselves, stirring, with wisdom and courage, installed interests and launching new bridges for debates without prejudice, adapted to the evolution of the times. It was by his hand that for the first time, an Encyclical was devoted entirely to the ‘ well-being of Mother Earth ’. The intimate relationship between those who have the least and the fragility of the planet, the conviction that everything is closely interconnected in the world, the criticism of the paradigm derived from technology, the search for other ways of understanding the economy and progress, the intrinsic value of each form of life, the human sense of ecology, the grave responsibility of politics, the culture of discard and the proposal of a new lifestyle are the axes of this Encyclical, inspired by deep environmental sensitivity. The text, which has designated ‘ About the Care of the Common House ’, is an alert and a new commitment to all earth’s inhabitants. Criticizing the free market and associating social issues, such as unemployment, with ‘ an economic system that has in its center a false god called money, ’ Francisco does not tire of appealing to ecumenism as a bridge to combat social inequalities. It has invoked the end of prejudices and discrimination and fought for human rights by adopting an increasingly inclusive speech. It is placed alongside science in climate change-related matters, even though this disturbs some economic sectors linked to fossil fuels. Above all, Francis provides an inspiring example of renewal by empathy that must be transversal to all institutions. This vote recognizes the action of the human being that has inspired many people to reflect on the evolution of consciences oriented towards clarity. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u171	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS Members Isabel Alves Moreira and Isabel Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u172	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u173	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u174	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's bench will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u175	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 302 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In solidarity with Palestinian political prisoners in Israeli prisons ( PCP, BE, The Greens and PS ), which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: “It has been in progress since last April 17 in Israeli prisons, a hunger strike involving about 1500 Palestinian political prisoners. They protest against degrading conditions to which they are subjected, arbitrary arrests, torture and isolation, medical neglect, humiliation, denial of basic rights such as family visit or education. The response of the State of Israel to the struggle of Palestinian political prisoners was to put some of the most prominent Palestinian leaders in isolation or transferring them to other detention centres, with the threat of forced food, practice considered by humanitarian law and medical ethics as a form of torture. Israel keeps more than 6500 Palestinian prisoners in prison in violation of 4. the Geneva Convention, of which 300 are children and 500 are in administrative detention. Thirteen Members of the Palestinian Parliament remain in prison in the Israeli prisons. The struggle of these political prisoners constitutes an expression of the long struggle of an entire people for freedom, against occupation and for the defense of their national existence. This form of struggle, now adopted by prisoners of all Palestinian political organizations, stresses once again the importance of solidarity with Palestinian patriots imprisoned by the Israeli authorities. Seventy years after the approval of the plan to share Palestine and 50 years after the occupation of the western margin of the Jordan River, the Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem, in addition to the Golan Mountains in Syria, it is time for the Palestinian people to see realized their inalienable right to the constitution of a free, viable and sovereign State. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : 1. Expresses its solidarity with Palestinian political prisoners in Israeli prisons; 2. Calls for compliance with international law, in particular the Geneva Conventions on obligations and restrictions of the occupying Power, and for respect for the rights and release of political prisoners; 3. It reaffirms the position taken by the Portuguese State of the principle of the coexistence of two States, Palestine and Israel, in accordance with the principles established by international law. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u177	At the request of a number of parliamentary groups, the vote will be taken on a point of order. Let us first vote on point 1 of vote No 302 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the PS Deputies Isabel Santos, Paulo Pisco, Bacelar de Vasconcelos and Wanda Guimarães and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[We voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the Members of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida and João Rebelo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u178	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u179	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u180	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that I will make a statement of vote on the vote we have made.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u181	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u182	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u183	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u184	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u185	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u186	I would also like to take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u187	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u188	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u189	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 303 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Praised for the end of the mission of the Portuguese Armed Forces in Kosovo ( PSD and CDS-PP ). For this vote there will be debate, so each parliamentary group is entitled to two minutes to discuss the vote. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote of praise presented by the PSD and the CDS on the end of the participation of the KFOR Armed Forces ( Kosovo Force ), an international military force led by NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) in Kosovo, does not seek, in the opinion of the PCP Parliamentary Group, to praise the Armed Forces nor to praise the end of the mission. Obviously, the CFP believes that our Armed Forces should be commended and we deeply regret the death of a military on this mission. However, the purpose of this vote is to praise NATO and the war of aggression in the former Yugoslavia. We must not fail to mention that the war in the former Yugoslavia aimed at the destruction of a sovereign country and its occupation by NATO forces. This war has not promoted national interest, peace has not been promoted or international security has improved, as this lamentable vote of praise affirms. This war has caused thousands of people to die and suffer and caused the fragmentation of a country, the consequences of which we are still living, which in no way contributed to security in the region. More: this war in the former Yugoslavia marks a new very black period in international human rights law, with the beginning of a series of wars against sovereign States, calling into question the Charter of the United Nations. Therefore, the CFP cannot fail to vote against this vote of praise, for all that it means, in particular, the praise for war, destruction, interference and occupation of a sovereign country, outside international law. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u191	Mr João Rebelo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presented this vote with the PSD to signal the end of Portugal's participation in NATO's longest mission — it was 18 years — in this case in Kosovo. This was a good decision taken by the Government of the Socialist Party of Eng.António Guterres, current Secretary-General of the United Nations. Portugal's participation in KFOR, which we are talking about here, a mission which was mandated by the United Nations — indeed, they took part in the field with the United Nations mission itself — ensured that the images we saw in 1998 and 1999 of Kosovo's extermination camps were no longer happening. Portugal's participation in this mission has ensured that, at the moment in Kosovo, ethnic groups of Albanian origin and Serbian minorities living there live in peace and security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u193	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u194	It is indisputable and unforgettable that this has happened. We are welcoming Portugal's participation from the outset, on a very important mission and, above all, with considerable force in numbers. It was more than 6800 Portuguese soldiers who participated there, recognized the merit of that same participation and not only to guarantee security. I recall that the Portuguese forces also had other work, as the National Defence Commission had the opportunity to observe when it visited our forces on the spot. The Portuguese forces themselves participated in civic work and support to the population in other areas than those of security. At present, in Kosovo, there is a process of economic development and I am sorry to tell you this. Members of the CFP, but — it is indisputable — there are no more those images of exterminium that we have seen and which, unfortunately, would remind us of 2 times. the World War and, despite the evident tensions between the Kosovar majority and Serbian minorities, ensuring the presence of KFOR and the United Nations allowed these populations to live in peace and security at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u196	Finally, Mr President, what the vote is to praise the participation of the Portuguese and the exemplary way our soldiers have done so, guaranteed peace—and I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, one of them has not returned, because he died in Kosovo. That's what this vote does, and very good! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u197	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote now being presented is quite distant from the mere finding that NATO's mission to Kosovo is coming to an end and far away from the mere indication of praise to the services provided by the Portuguese Armed Forces. If that were the case, it would have our support; as it is not, it does not deserve our support. That is why we do not reject the praise to be given to the Portuguese military and military members who have participated in this mission. There is the recognition of the activities they have done and the sorrow for the Portuguese military who have lost their lives, but we do not ignore the root of this conflict, the root of international decisions that have led to the existence of the NATO KFOR mission and the way it served to destroy a country, that is the only result of this process. from the part of the Left Block, from the beginning, we said that we were before the international interference that aimed to share a country so that, from this destruction, the political power of local geopolitics could then be distributed. Let's keep that evaluation. Historical developments, in our view, have given us reason and have also shown how often international forces, particularly those of NATO, use such intelligent bombs, not separating the innocent from the culprits. For those who died at the NATO bombs, by not using bombs, which should also be banned, and we do not ignore their use in Kosovo, we should show some kind of solidarity, which this vote of the PSD and the CDS ignores. It is victoriously marked with the positions, which are known, of the PSD and CDS on this matter and that the Left Block, now as in the past, rejects and does not accompany. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u199	Mr. João Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u200	Mr President, just two words to point out that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group favours this vote for reasons relating to the evaluation of what has been done with regard to the work of our military and our armed forces in the various peace missions they have participated in. This does not mean that we agree with the various positions that have been taken about what happened in the former Yugoslavia. I am personally and particularly willing to say this because, as an author of Lisbon, I was invited by the authorities of Serbia, democratically elected against Milošević during his period in Serbia, then still Yugoslavia. Moreover, I was the only camera president of a European Union capital, who went to Belgrade, the capital of Serbia, during the period during which Serbia, in particular Belgrade, was bombarded by NATO planes. I am therefore pleased with this matter to say that I look deeply, in fact, at the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in what has been the work of the missions of the peace forces of our armed forces, particularly in the Balkans, Bosnia-Herzegovina and also in Kosovo. It was in Kosovo, on which the most varied considerations can be raised, and I have already had the opportunity to express my personal position—and I have been there several times as a member of the OSCE Parliamentary Defence Commission and Parliamentary Assembly, in a framework of very particular responsibilities—where our military members of the three branches of the Armed Forces have performed professionally, with a quality and courage of their missions in a framework that bears much better comparison with all the armed forces of the European Union that were present there. It is in this plan of respect and dignity of the remarkable work that our Armed Forces have done in affirming the image of Portugal at the international level, at the service of peace, freedom and dialogue, that we have voted in favour of this motion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u201	Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u202	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is undoubtedly a vote for peace. The images that entered our homes, before KFOR's intervention, were images, yes, of war, of deep cruelty. They were images that the international community would have to avoid and collect, for the sake of human rights and the preservation of the dignity of peoples. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u203	This was therefore a peacekeeping and peace enforcement force, whether the Communist Party or the Left Block wanted or not. For these two parties, all NATO targets is to vote against! That's what I conclude. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I want to say that the size of the Portuguese military is, in addition to its military competence, as has already been mentioned here, also a large human dimension, the dimension of being able to interact with populations and with different communities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u204	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u205	... and this must also be highlighted in this vote and serve as an example. For global threats, the answer must be global. That is what we have done, and that is what we must continue to do. We therefore have a lot of honour and pride in this vote. Finally, we also want to regret the death of the military in that territory. Simple men, capable of extraordinary facts! — is the message I leave for the Portuguese military. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u206	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 303 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Praised for the end of the participation of the mission of the Portuguese Armed Forces in Kosovo ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] [[Eighteen years later, Portugal ended its participation in the NATO-led international military force in Kosovo — the KFOR — whose mandate resulted from UN Security Council Resolution No 1244, adopted on 10 June 1999. KFOR, in conjunction with the force of the UN civilian administration — UNMIK — played an absolutely irreplaceable role in the implementation of the principles stipulated by Resolution No 1244, the imposition of peace, the restoration of the security of civilians and the mitigation of inter-ethnic violence and massacres. Portugal was one of the 19 NATO members who participated in the KFOR Mission, having been present in Kosovo since the first time the force entered that territory on 12 June 1999 and committed more than 6500 soldiers during that period, particularly relevant if we meet the overall dimension of the National Armed Forces. National commitment has followed the evolution of operations in the field, its mission and priorities and the national military have always demonstrated an effective and competent response capacity, prestigious our country and strengthening its international position. We thus recall all those who, with nobleness and dignity, have served the national interest honorably and have contributed with great value and distinction to greater and better international security. And we recall, as a tribute, the first leader, José Bernardino, who lost his life in Camp Portugal, a military base in the capital of Kosovo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u207	Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 306 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings for support for Portugal's candidacy at the headquarters of the European Medicines Agency ( PS ). I ask the Secretary, Mrs Idália Serrão, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Portugal has applied for the seat of the European Medicines Agency ( EMA ) and this is a project and a truly national wish. Following the Brexit, European agencies based in the United Kingdom will have to be relocated and Portugal presents strong arguments for Lisbon to be chosen. The EMA is a European agency of greatest importance, bearing in mind that it is responsible for ensuring the highest standards in the assessment, supervision and monitoring of the safety of all medicinal products to be used in the European Union and the European Economic Area. To this end, the headquarters of the EMA should be located in a city with a recognised scientific and academic environment, with good facilities for installation and conditions for hosting a large number of interlocutors weekly, in a country that has demonstrated excellent performance in the area of drug agencies. Portugal and Lisbon meet all these requirements and can, for the most part, offer quality of life that enables you to attract and retain the talents of EMA, in a stimulating cultural and scientific environment. For Portugal, the choice for EMA headquarters would have a strong impact, from a reputational point of view and with subsequent arguments for the country's attractiveness and competitiveness, but also economical at the most diverse levels. The location of the EMA headquarters in Lisbon would have an immediate contagion effect for companies and other entities interacting with the Agency, although they do not have direct economic activity in that country. In general, the whole sector of life sciences will be stimulated around an agency with the importance of the EMA, but its effects are not limited to areas related to medicines. Thus, by associating itself with the foundations and objectives expressed above, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes and supports Portugal's candidacy to establish the seat of the European Medicines Agency in Lisbon, as of national interest. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u209	Thank you, Secretary. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 306 / XIII ( 2. ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 855 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank, from 10 May to 6 June 2017 ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 827 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to comply with the National Vaccination Programme in the school community ( CDS-PP ). They requested the empowerment of the vote, the PS and the BE, of point ( d ) and, the PCP and the PAN, of point ( e ). So let us first vote on point (d). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We now vote on point (e). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We proceeded to the vote on points ( a ), ( b ) and ( c) of draft resolution No 827 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 828 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to comply with the National Programme for Vaccination in the Adult Population and Health Professionals ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 821 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures to increase vaccination coverage in Portugal ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 847 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures to vaccinate measles and launch an information campaign to clarify the population about the validity of the vaccination included in the National Vaccination Programme, in particular in the case of measles ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 848 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to promote awareness of the importance of vaccination ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we now have two requirements, one, submitted by the PCP, concerning draft law No 340 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces ( EMFAR ) ( PCP ) and another submitted by BE on draft resolution No 843 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces ( EMFAR) ( BE), applying for discharge to the National Defence Commission, without a vote, for a period of 30 days. Let's vote them. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 607 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent replacement of four wagons on the Lisbon Metropolitan Green Line ( The Greens) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ). The PS has requested the separate vote on point 1, which we shall vote on. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on point 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS and the abstention of the PS Member Helena Roseta.]] For draft resolution No 841 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Portuguese Government the immediate replacement of the fourth carriage on all trains operating on the Lisbon Metropolitan Green Line ( PAN ) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ), and the separate vote was also requested under point 1. We shall therefore vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS and the abstention of the PS Member Helena Roseta.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the Member of PS Helena Roseta.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 842 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to improve the Lisbon Metropolitan service and to ensure good public transport options during the period of work at the Arroios station ( BE ) ( the initial text was replaced at the request of the author ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 845 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Lisbon Metropolitan Blue Line replacement of normal public transport service ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the PS deputy Joaquim Raposo and the abstention of the PS deputy Helena Roseta.]] We have a request, submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a vote, for a period of 60 days, relating to the projects of lein. 498 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Sanctions the use of poisons in the field of kinetic activity ( NAP) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request) and 502 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the mandatory presence of a health inspector in certain venatoria acts ( PAN) ( the initial text was replaced at the request of the author) and draft resolutions 809 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a three-year moratorium regime for the hunting of common roulach and bream ( PAN) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request) and 810 / XIII ( 2 ). (a) — Recommends that the Government establish a uniform two-day regime for ordered and unordered kinetic land (NAP), which we shall vote for. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u210	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u211	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u212	Mr President, it is to be announced that I will present a statement of vote on my abstention position in the vote on the set of initiatives relating to Metropolitans.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u213	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 503 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — prohibits the use of clothing as a means of hunting (PAN and BE) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PS Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz and CDS-PP Member João Rebelo and abstentions from The Greens and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 849 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out a broad reflection on the situation of kinetic activity in Portugal as a basis for legislative adjustments in the field of hunting ( CFP ) ( the original text was replaced at the author's request ). At the request of the CDS-PP, the vote on this draft resolution will be broken down. So we started by voting on point ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on point ( b ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 497 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — prohibits the implementation of new concessions for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the national territory ( BE and PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 515 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Provides for prior consultation of municipalities in administrative procedures relating to prospecting and research, experimental exploitation and exploitation of hydrocarbons ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the CFP, votes against the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 840 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Transparency in the process of prospecting and research of hydrocarbons and drawing up a Green Paper, contributing to the strengthening of technical and scientific mechanisms to support the political decision ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes against the PS and the NAP and abstentions of BE and the Greens.]] For draft resolution No 846 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The suspension of the research and exploration of hydrocarbons off Aljezur and the national reassessment of the other concession contracts ( PCP ) was requested by the NAP and the PCP, the point-by-point vote. So we started by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 6 PS Members (António Eusébio, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira, Luís Graça, Pedro do Carmo and Sofia Araújo) and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2 of that motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and BE abstentions.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on point 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions against the PS and BE.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 70 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — regulates the application and enforcement of restrictive measures adopted by the United Nations or the European Union and establishes the sanctioning regime applicable to the violation of restrictive measures. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 71 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime of the central registration of the effective beneficiary and transposes Chapter III of Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 72 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849 and implementing Regulation ( EU ) 2015 / 847. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 73 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates the automatic exchange of mandatory information on cross-border prior tax decisions and prior arrangements on transfer prices and on taxation by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2376 and Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 881. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 507 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defence of transparency and integrity in sports competitions ( PSDs ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 12. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 512 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the gender impact assessment scheme for regulatory acts ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 697 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to increase the value of women's participation in security forces and services ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 701 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to eliminate wage inequalities between men and women ( PSD ) for which the CFP calls for the autonomous vote of points 2, 3 and 7. So we started by voting on point 2. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 7. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Finally, we shall vote on points 1 and 4 to 6 of the same motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u214	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u215	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u216	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u217	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 528 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of contracts for prospecting, research, development and production of hydrocarbons in Algarve and Costa Alentejana (The Greens) (the initial text was replaced at the request of the author). [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 8 PS (André Pinotes Batista, Antonio Eusébio, Eurídice Pereira, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira, Luís Graça, Pedro do Carmo and Sofia Araújo) and the abstention of PS.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 695 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intervene in order to enhance the characteristics of the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Lapa as a "product" of economic and tourist interest of religious scope ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u218	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u219	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u220	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the first point of this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u221	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u222	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u223	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u224	Mr President, in a similar sense, it is to announce that we will present a written statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u225	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 719 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intercede with the Spanish authorities for the urgent reopening of the HU-6400 road in the section following the international bridge of Lower Guadiana, in Pomarão, Métola ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 818 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the follow-up of the urgent process of replacement of the road of access to El Granado ( Province of Huelva - Spain ), which connects Portugal through the bridge over the river Chança near the town of Pomarão, in the municipality of Mértola ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 128 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines as the only consequence of the failure to comply with the payment of the tip the non-recognition of the academic act ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 159 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u226	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u227	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u228	Mr President, it is to inform that I and the Members themselves. Mr John Torres and Mr Diogo León will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u229	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 166 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defines a phased payment scheme for premiums payable by higher education students and creates a special payment scheme by beneficiaries of social action grants, making the third amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u230	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u231	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u232	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u233	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u234	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u235	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u236	Mr President, it is to inform that, on the vote on draft law No 159 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), of the Left Block, I shall present a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u237	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Duarte Pacheco will announce the results of the votes for external bodies, which have taken place in parallel with this session. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote for the National Health Council is as follows: « At eleven days of May of two thousand and seventeen the election was held for the National Health Council. The result was as follows: Votes — 202 Votes 'yes' — 171 White votes— 28 No votes— 3 In the legal terms applicable and in view of the result obtained, they declare themselves elected to the National Health Council as effective members, the Portuguese Association of Asperger Syndrome ( APSA), the Portuguese Association for Diabetics of Portugal, the Family — Portuguese Federation of Family Associations of Persons with Mental Disease Experience, the Group of Activists in Treatment ( GAT ), the Portuguese League against Cancer and the Movement of Peoples of Public Services ( MUSP) and, as alternate members, Europacolon Portugal — Support to the Patient with Digestive Cancer, the National Association of Patients with Arthritis Rheumatoid ( ANDAR ), the Lisbon Platform for Defence of the National Health Service and the Rares — Mensagement. To record that the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Mr Scrutinador, Diogo Leon. Do not keep on seeking. ” The election act for the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals shall be of the following content: « At 11 days of May of two thousand and seventeen the election was held for the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals. The result was as follows: Votes — 202 Votes « yes» — 116 White votes — 77 No votes — 9 In legal terms applicable and in response to the result obtained, they declare themselves elected to the Superior Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals as effective members, Pedro António Pimenta da Costa Gonçalves, Ana Gouveia and Freitas Martins, João Taborda da Gama and Ricardo Manuel de Amaral Rodrigues and, as alternate members, Fernando Licínio Lopes Martins, Carlos Alberto Fernandes Pinto, Marta Vaz Canavarro Portocarrero de Carvalho and José Manuel Morbey de Almeida Mesquita. To record that the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Mr Scrutinador, Diogo Leon. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-11.u239	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we have finished our work today, it remains to be announced that the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 17 May, at 3 p.m., with several items on the agenda. We begin by discussing, together, draft resolutions 589 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Base of the Lajes ( PSD ), 866 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the safeguarding of the inhabitants of the Azores within the framework of the use of the Lajes Base by the United States of America ( BE ) and 868 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On the future of the Lajes Base ( PS ). The joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 426 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Organization of the electoral process abroad ( amendment to Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ) ( BE ), 427 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Election rehabilitation of Portuguese citizens living abroad ( BE ), 516 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Uniformizes the exercise of the right to vote of voters living abroad by the twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May ( Regulation on the election of the President of the Republic ), the sixth amendment to Law No 14 / 79 of 16 May ( Election Law for the Assembly of the Republic ), the sixth amendment to Law No 14 / 87 of 29 April ( Election Law for the European Parliament ), and the repeal of Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ( Organization of the electoral process abroad ) ( PSD ), and 517 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — It makes the electoral census of Portuguese citizens living abroad informal and automatic, making the fifth amendment to Law No 13 / 99 of 22 March, establishing the new legal regime of the electoral census ( PSD ), and the proposals of lein. 77 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the Elections Act of the Assembly of the Republic and the Elections Act of the President of the Republic and 78 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of the electoral census. We will then make a joint assessment of the projects of lein. 478 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines refusal of entry and residence into national territory to all foreigners who are convicted of the practice of terrorism under their respective Act ( Fourth Amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July 2007 — Approves the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of aliens from national territory ) ( CDS-PP ), 479 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the loss of Portuguese nationality by anyone who is also a national of another State in the event of condemnation of the practice of the crime of terrorism ( Eighth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October— Nationality Law ) ( CDS-PP ) and 480 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Access to traffic, location or other related communications data by officials and agents of the information services of the Portuguese Republic ( CDS-PP ) ( generally ), of draft resolutions 778 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government approve a security plan for each of the Portuguese international airports ensuring the sharing of information between their administrations and security forces and services ( CDS-PP ), 779 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen and expand all elements of the security forces performing functions of proximity police, specific training in the detection, prevention and combating of terrorism ( CDS-PP ) and 852 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the strategies and action plans arising from the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy and adopts a strategic plan for the safety of airport infrastructure ( PSD ) and the proposed Law No 79 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the special arrangements for access to basic data and electronic communications traffic data by SIRP ( generally ). Then, together and in general, the projects of lein.o 77 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed. a ) — Creates the status of the professional dancer of the National Dance Company and the dance school of the National Dance Company ( PCP ), 324 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Social security scheme, professional reintegration and occupational accident insurance for dancers of the National Dance Company ( BE ), 518 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the specific conditions for the provision of work, social protection and professional conversion of the dancer of the National Dance Company ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 519 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the scheme for the repair of damage caused by occupational dancers' accidents ( The Greens ). Finally, we will examine petition No 206 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Respecting teachers, improving their working conditions and valuing their career status (FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers) together with draft resolutions 547 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce teachers at the corresponding level of the teaching career ( CDS-PP ), 870 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repositioning in the career of teachers who entered the frameworks — regulation of the status of the teaching career ( BE) and 873/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to enhance teachers and educators and improve their working conditions ( CFP ). I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 43 minutes.]]
