ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. Before we begin our agenda, which today has as its only item on the agenda a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will proceed to the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: motion for a resolution No 61 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on an Amendment to Article 50 ( a ). the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 707 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 708 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Act No. 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), second amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2003, of 22 August ( Law of the Political Parties ), seventh amendment to Law No. 19 / 2003, of 20 June ( Law of the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns ), and first amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2005, of 10 January ( Law of Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing) ( PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes ), and 709 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 1210 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the early reinforcement of the Portuguese Bank staff of Germoplasma Vegetal ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1209 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government combat trafficking in human beings for labour ( NAP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Let us therefore get on the agenda, which I have already mentioned in a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. So you have the floor, first of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins to put the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is the last 15-year debate in 2017 and therefore also a balance sheet debate. This was a year marked by the tragedy of fires and we do not forget the enormous responsibility we have for the victims and for the future. Now it is necessary to help those in need, to recover local economies, to rebuild a safer territory, to strengthen public responses, to take responsibility for and correct the tragic mistakes. But 2017 was also a year of economic recovery, which proved the fairness of the agreement to stop impoverishment in Portugal and which left the right without speech or proposal. We recovered pensions and salaries, came down the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), it was proven that the convergence effort we made on behalf of those who work makes all the difference. We had left the national minimum wage rising for what was possible in social consultation and it would remain frozen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u6	The courage to impose minimum annual increases, with the aim of 600 €, in this legislature, guaranteed more wages for those who earn the least and, unlike all forecasts on the right, created jobs. Now we need to learn from what went well and what went wrong. Much is to be done, in a country of low wages, precariousness and poverty and public services still very degraded by the years of austerity on the right. But, Prime Minister, the country does not close for balance sheet and we already have important decisions to make on a fundamental sector: mails, TTCs. In 2013 Portugal joined Malaysia, Singapore, Lebanon, Malta and the Netherlands and became the fifth country in the world with fully private mails. PSD and CDS did not want to know about the international experience that advises the postal service to be public. They ignored that privatisation in the Netherlands led to the closure of 90 % of post offices and disaggregated the company. They ignored that in Denmark and the United Kingdom privatisations had to be reversed, renationalizing mails. They even ignored the fact that TTCs were a historical, profitable company with more than 500 million euros of profit between 2005 and 2013 and that they provided essential public service. They ignored the country and just wanted to know about the business. Before privatization, PSD and CDS, to ensure that the business was even very tasty, closed more than 200 stations and mail posts, reduced the number of workers by more than 1000, increased prices, ensured the exclusive sale of state savings certificates and even a bank licence. The first 70% were sold, among others, to Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank and Unicredito, which, although only had the company for 25 days in 2013, were soon entitled to a generous distribution of dividends.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u7	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u8	There was a speculative movement in the stock exchange and, even before the end of 2014, what these shareholders had bought for 580 million euros was already worth 820 million euros. That is, they took out theirs, and today none of them are CTT shareholders.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u10	In the meantime, PSD and CDS sold the 30 % remaining CTTs in the state for less than EUR 340 million than the market value — i.e. another friend price. Whoever knew how to do business, like Goldman Sachs, quickly made money. Who didn't know, patience! There comes the grave in the bag and the CTTs at risk of disappearing. What the right has done, with the damaging business of privatization, was a raid on the country, which has lost a valuable asset. But more than that, he opened the doors for assault on CTTs, made by his private shareholders. ANACOM, the regulator, states that CTTs are not complying with the public service concession contract. Daily delivery is over and in rural areas mail is delivered only once or twice a week. There are pensioners who despair with the delay in the pension valleys. The weaker population is more abandoned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u12	Meanwhile, private shareholders are looting a company built by public investment and its workers, who have only known precariousness and dismissals. The big business, which is a robbery, of Sérgio Monteiro, State Secretary for Privatizations of the PSD and CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u14	... now knows a new phase: we know yesterday that CTTs are preparing a restructuring with the closure of counters and redundancies, a restructuring, they say, due to the difficulties of the company. But if the company was in difficulty, how did it deliver 98 % of the profits in 2013 to shareholders in 2014, 90 % and 97% in 2015? Oh, my God! If the company is in difficulty, how did it distribute 70 million euros to shareholders in 2016, i.e. 8 million more than its own profits? Oh, my God! They jumped to the company's reserves! Portugal cannot allow this destruction and looting of CTTs. It is necessary to prevent redundancies and to recover the postal service for the public sphere. So, Prime Minister, will the government stop the restructuring process? This process needs your authorization and can stop it. Secondly, will the government recover the service of the post office to the public sphere, protecting workers and protecting the population? Portugal really needs CTTs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u15	In reply, I have the floor of Mr Prime Minister, to whom I would like to congratulate, for not yet having had the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u16	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all, I must say that this was a year that had two faces: the face of tragedy, which we cannot ignore, and the face in which we have to respond to what is the mourning of families and the repair of damage (the damage suffered in housing, the reconstruction of businesses and the reconstruction of the productive capacity of the rural world), but we must also focus on doing what is unsuited for because it is the great challenges of the medium and long term — the revitalization of the interior and the reorganization of our forest. We must have a system to prevent and combat more robust fires. But it is necessary, once and for all, to be aware that incremental improvements in our system of prevention and combat only buy time to do what is fundamental, which is the revitalization of the interior and the reform of the forest. We have lost more than 10 years in this challenge and now we have to regain lost time. This House has already taken a very important step by approving, in July, the essential of the forest reform that we put in public discussion in October 2016. We are now beginning to implement it in the register. But it is also necessary to begin, from 2 January, to be able to use the tools created in the State Budget to develop the incentives necessary to have the forest management entities, the best conditions for the creation of ZIF (forest intervention zones) and a forest that may be a source of wealth and not a threat to the populations. This is the great challenge and it is a challenge in which I hope that we will all continue to be focused and focused on this legislature and throughout the forthcoming legislatures. With regard to TTCs, we obviously share concerns about the future of TTCs and their present and how they are performing their service. It was in this sense that the Government has already created a working group together with the regional governments, with the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ), with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and with other entities to assess how the service of TTCs is being executed on a daily basis. We do not ignore the monitoring that ANACOM has done and we follow with satisfaction the increase in the supervision by ANACOM. in the last report, ANACOM pointed out the breach of the contract on an essential issue, which was the time of delivery of normal mail and, in this sense, numerous TTCs, forcing them to reduce the price paid by consumers in relation to postal service. Now, what we want is not fines, what we want is quality of service and service to the people. And this must be a joint effort and, of course, the CTT itself, because no one obviously ignores that the communications world has significantly changed the role of a company like the CTTs in relation to postal service. Today, surely, any of us writes fewer letters and sends more emails. But this means that the company necessarily has to reinvent its own activity. And for this, good management capacity and initiative capacity is obviously needed. Madam Member, we have not received any proposal or request for restructuring so far. I have read the news in the newspapers and, as you know, there are two essential ways of reducing staff: one, which does not have any government intervention, is the figure of collective dismissal; another, within the framework of restructuring, is the increase in the share of terminations by mutual agreement. So far, we have not received any request for approval of an increase in the quota legally planned for any termination by mutual agreement. So at this moment the question is not simply for the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u17	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u18	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the TTCs were making a profit. A company can always adapt to new technological realities and, in fact, when new technological realities existed, the TTCs were profitable. The problem is that private shareholders are pillaging the company, are destroying the CTTs... [[Congratulations from BE and PS Santinho Pacheco.]] ...and with this, they are destroying the response to populations by a public service that is essential. [[Congratulations from BE.]] If the state is waiting, it won't have anything to rescue. The plan that the TTCs now present is five years, when they know that the concession ends from here to three years. And what the concession contract provides is that, when there is a reason for public interest and there is failure on the part of the concessionaire, the State has one year to notify the company that will rescue. That's what needs to be done. The government cannot wait to save the TTCs when the private are running to destroy them. And this is what the Left Block thinks would be irresponsible. That is why we need a clear guarantee of the Government's efforts in this regard. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u19	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u20	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, this guarantee comes from the establishment of the working group in order to assess the situation and also from the monitoring of the role of ANACOM, which is the body responsible for regulating the performance of the contract. To date, ANACOM has signalled a point of non-compliance and has applied the corresponding penalty. We know that ANACOM is intensifying supervision and we, with the establishment of the working group, want to draw up and consolidate information so that, if necessary, we can pass on additional data to ANACOM so as to enable it to draw the conclusions which are the assumption of the action which you have referred to. The fundamental point is that Portugal will not be able to live without a universal postal service and that universal postal service has and will have to be ensured by the TTC. This is our guarantee and this is our goal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u21	You have the floor, too, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, in very short seconds, I wanted to say that the TTCs serve the country if they are public, I think that we already have proof and that is what we have to achieve. Mr Prime Minister, in a few seconds, because time is over, I wanted to tell you that there has been a social alarm, which is understood, around the very rare IPSS (special institution of social solidarity), whose users are people with rare diseases and who depend on the institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u23	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u24	I do conclude, Mr President, with three issues which I believe are quite clear and necessary, without, of course, repeating what the Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u25	It is better to bring the three questions together in one, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u26	... Vieira da Silva has already explained here in Parliament. So I wonder if the government will make public the audit it is doing — to justice what is justice, but the audit of social security should be public. Does the Government guarantee that the users of the Very Rare continue to have the support that is needed? Finally, I wonder whether you are prepared to amend the IPSS Statute to ensure greater supervision. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u27	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u28	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we consider very relevant the contribution of both the IPSS and the mercy and mutuality to the social support action in Portugal and therefore we do not diabolise the action of the IPSS generally on a specific case, nor do we diabolize the activity of an association for possible wrongful facts practiced by a leader of that association. So far, I have not been questioned about the work carried out by the association, with regard to the children in charge, and the intervention of social security has aimed, firstly, that the institution can continue to work, to develop its work, which has been unanimously recognized as very worthy of the protection and benefit of the children in charge. Therefore, the first objective we have to have is to protect and safeguard the interests of children who are in charge of the Very Rare. Secondly, in a second dimension, whether there are unlawful facts occurring within an IPSS or within any other institution, of course, no one is above the law and therefore the law must act. It is in this sense that we have been increasing and intensifying the monitoring actions of the General Inspection of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security ( IGMTSS ) on IPSS. Between 2015 and November 2017, around 1615 inspection actions have been launched and this is the supervision that we have to do, but it is also the responsibility to do justice and we trust what justice will do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u29	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u30	As regards the last questions you have raised, first, the audit will obviously be public and, second, we have done everything to ensure that your activity normally takes place—and the information that we have on the part of the social security team currently working in the Rare, is in this sense—for the benefit and benefit of the children in charge, because the first objective has to be to protect these children. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u31	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Soares has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, I am starting precisely with the issue of the CTTs to ask you...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u33	To apologize?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u34	...that, once and for all, without ambiguities, without hiding behind working groups, clarify the position which has been brought to public debate by the Socialist Party and, ultimately, the position of the Government. I ask you, first of all, whether you see yourself in the words of Mrs Catarina Martins, a supporter of the government, when she says that private shareholders pick up the company and rob their reserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u35	Don't you see yourself? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u36	I remember that the privatisation of TTCs was included in the Memorandum of Understanding, which the Socialist Government signed with institutional creditors, and I ask you, without ambiguities: is it the intention of the Government to nationalize TTCs? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u37	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u38	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, no, it is not the intention of the Government to nationalize the TTCs, in addition to that, because, being a public entity which is under concession, there would be no nationalisation at all, there would be a rescue of the concession. The question of rescue will be whether or not under the terms of the contract and in accordance with the evaluation, which lies first of all with ANACOM. We have formed a working group not to hide behind anything but to know and ascertain, effectively, what exists, and what we know is that ANACOM has already identified a situation of breach of the contract and applied the corresponding penalty. If that's enough, I doubt it is. There is one thing we should all reflect on, which is whether a public service such as postal service should be evaluated according to stock exchange shareholder valuation or the quality of service to citizens. That is a matter of reflection, and I would like you to take part in this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u39	Mr Hugo Soares continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, no longer responds to the question I raised, in order to find out whether it is reflected in the expressions of the supporters of your Government. But I wanted to help you to demystify the confusion you are working on, because Mr. Prime Minister is that you are wrong, let me tell you, with great humility. You know, one thing... [[Rices and protests from PS Members.]] That's right, that's right! And it is appropriate to know what is being said, so that Mr. Prime Minister can explain to the House and to the Portuguese, what is at stake. One thing is universal service, another thing is company property. So I asked her if she wanted to nationalize it, because even the Left Block knows it was privatized. from there my question, and it is good that the Prime Minister does not confuse people and does not try to "throw sand for the eyes" of the Portuguese. This ambiguity must be clarified because it is the Socialist Party that has put it on the table. But, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you questions on another subject, too. Yesterday it was known that there was no agreement in social consultation on the increase in national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u41	Even a stopped watch is right twice a day!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u42	It is the first time in the last 10 years that there is no agreement between all partners on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u43	All of them? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u44	So I ask you two very direct questions. First : is it true, or not, that Mr Prime Minister, or someone from the Government, has given guarantees in the previous year that he would not interfere in labour law, and therefore had the agreement of the social partners, including the confederations and employers, in signing the agreement for the increase in minimum wage? Second : what is the Government's commitment today to the Portuguese and this House on what is labour law? Is the government going, or not, to reverse labour legislation? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u45	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u46	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, the rise of the national minimum wage is essential, it is one of the fundamental components of the economic policy of this Government, thanks to which we have had strong economic growth, a recovery of confidence and an improvement of our economic climate. It was possible to demonstrate, during successive studies, that, contrary to what the PSD defended, it is not impoverishing that the country becomes competitive and it was not the increase of the national minimum wage by 15 % in three consecutive years that removed investment or made job creation difficult. The unemployment rate has fallen from 12, 6 % to 8, 5 %, the employment rate is increasing 4 % and is also increasing the non-term contracts in all categories, with the hiring of long-term unemployed and unemployed young people. This means that rising national minimum wage has improved family income, contributed to the growth of the economy and has not distanced investment, nor hampered job creation, on the contrary, employment is created with economic activity and the increase in national minimum wage has contributed to this, as it has also contributed to reducing inequalities between Portuguese and to combating poverty, particularly among those working. This is an objective of this economic policy, which we have always defined in three very fundamental items: more growth, better employment, greater equality, for which we have come to achieve good results, and so on we will continue. That is why the increase in the national minimum wage was made exactly for the value provided for in our Government Programme: €580. If we'd rather have done it by agreement? I'm sure you do. We regret that there was no agreement, but the conditions laid down for us were not acceptable. The commitment not to revise labour law was made last year for 2017 and during 2017 we did not revise labour law. That was the compromise we made and that was the compromise we fulfilled. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u47	Mr Hugo Soares continues to use the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u48	Mr President, Prime Minister, as you know, that is not what the partners say, but I am going there. Let me tell you that you have not answered the question I have raised about whether or not you will revert to Mrs Catarina Martins' statements...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u49	And your position, what is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u50	...and I see that it has been clarified on the issue of TTCs. But let me tell you, about the national minimum wage, that the truth is only one:... [[Protests by BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa.]] ... the closer the end of the legislature and the weaker your government is, the more you are in the hands of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u52	Now, the agreements he makes in social consultation last only a year, because they depend on the will of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]] That is the reality, and that is what Mr. Prime Minister should assume. Mr Prime Minister, you have already spoken here today about the very rare IPSS and, in that regard, wanted to talk about facts. The first point is that Mr Vieira da Silva has, since January, in the services of the Ministry which protects him, a complaint which he has ignored olympicically. The second fact is that Mr Vieira da Silva took part in a trip to Sweden, where the President of that institution signed a protocol on behalf of a foundation that does not exist, and Mr Vieira da Silva, with his presence at least, guaranteed a lie that could be a lie. But my question relates directly to the following: Minister Vieira da Silva had the opportunity to say that he has already taken a number of decisions on this matter and that he has even had personal conversations with the President of that institution, giving him advice on what he should do. Now, given that Mr. Prime Minister and his Government have adopted a Code of Conduct — I remember that Mr. Prime Minister and his Government have adopted a Code of Conduct — and that Mr. Vieira da Silva was part of the social bodies of that institution, the question is very direct and I want you to answer: do you think that Mr. Vieira da Silva has violated the Code of Conduct that your Government has approved? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS deputy Fernando Rocha Andrade's laughs.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u53	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u54	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares has lost a lot of time with a question that has a simple answer: no, he has not violated any Code of Conduct. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u55	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor again. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u56	Mr. President,... Continued PS applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u57	The honourable Member begins when he thinks he has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u58	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, we are... Continued PS applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u59	Mr President, your time will only start to count when you think you have the conditions to begin the question. [[Pause.]] Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u60	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are elucidated not only by your reply but also by your statement of support from your bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u62	It is no longer just the word given that is not honored, now it is also the letter of law that is not validated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u63	The gentlemen. Members should read your Code of Conduct,... [[PSD applause.]] ... before they hit palms enthusiasticly. The Code of Conduct which your Government has approved states that the members of the Government must refrain from making decisions, and should therefore apologize for matters relating to entities in which they have exercised their duties.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u64	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u65	And I wanted to ask you whether it was true or not that Mr Vieira da Silva made decisions about an entity where he had collaborated. Answer, please, this question! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests and PSD counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u66	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor. [[Pause.]] Mr. Prime Minister will only begin to respond when he understands that he has conditions to do so and time does not count until that moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u67	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, yesterday had the opportunity to hear Mr Vieira da Silva long ago in the Commission... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u68	...and stir all the questions about what you did, what you didn't, what you could have done, what you should have done. [[Answer me! Answer me!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u69	The only thing I have to say to you is that Mr. Vieira da Silva and I are fully aware... [[PSD protests.]] ... with what we did and what we stopped doing on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u70	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u72	Mr. President! Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u73	The PSD has two directions, after all! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u74	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, you have certainly noticed less enthusiasm on your bench,... [[The enthusiasm is huge!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u75	... but I asked you a very direct question to which I would thank you for answering: Is it true or not that Mr Vieira da Silva, who is on the bench of the government, made decisions about an entity where he collaborated, where was he part of the social bodies? Just answer this question and then remove your illusions from the rest. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u76	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u77	SR. President, Mr. Member, if you have any direct charges to formalize... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u78	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u79	If you have any direct charges on Mr Vieira da Silva, you have the hombrety to make the accusation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] If you are aware that Mr Vieira da Silva has violated the law, you will be accused! [[PSD Protests and PS Protests.]] If you think Mr. Vieira da Silva has violated the Code of Conduct, you will be accused! Now, don't look at insinuatory rhetoric because this is no way to have a political debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] So, Mr. Deputies, I am not going to take time for you to have all the time available to make the accusation, if you have any charges to make. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u80	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u81	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are taking time to answer the questions put to you by the benches. That's the way it is! [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u82	And I'm going to ask you the question again, because she's so easy that I don't understand why Mr. Prime Minister is around... [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Is it true or not that Mr Vieira da Silva, in the performance of his duties today as Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, has taken decisions on an institution in which he belonged to social bodies? Just answer « yes» or « no», no more turns, it is so easy! Do you want a drawing, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] [[Yes or no?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u83	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u84	Mr President, I will reply-CL to you exactly as I have said so far:... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u85	... Mr Vieira da Silva has not violated the Code of Conduct, Mr Vieira da Silva has not violated the law. If you are aware of any fact that I do not have and allow you to file an accusation, you will be accused! Now, don't insinuate and accuse, so you can get the answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u86	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u87	Are you going to ask me again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u88	I could ask again, I could, because we were left unanswered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u89	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u90	You also know the answer and are ashamed, because you know, you know what the answer is! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Bruno Dias lost a good opportunity to be quiet in this area, because you, as you know the answer, also know what I am going to say to Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u91	It's amazing! Everybody knows less about PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u92	You know, Mr. Prime Minister, it is true, yes, that Mr. Vieira da Silva has made decisions! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Yes, Minister Vieira da Silva was part of the social bodies of that IPSS! Yes, in accordance with the Code of Conduct which you have done, Mr Vieira da Silva has violated it and Mr Prime Minister has no courage to take it, because the Code is only for government advisors and no longer gives it to ministers because it is not for him! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] With regard to Mr Vieira da Silva, would you like to ask him what title did the Minister ask the Holy House of Mercy to invest in the capital of Montepio? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u93	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u94	Mr President, Mr Deputy, regarding the Montepio situation, I will read you two passages in a communiqué issued yesterday by Dr. Pedro Santana Lopes,... [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] ... as former Proveder of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia of Lisbon, and I believe that we deserve both equal respect so that we can trust the word of Dr. Santana Lopes. The communiqué reads as follows : « The subject was in fact raised and dealt with at meetings with the Government and the Banco de Portugal. from these entities, the matter was treated with the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa ( SCML ) with due personal and institutional correction. The two entities took a good look at this possibility and declared that they respected the sphere of autonomy of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa ». Further forward, says Dr. Pedro Santana Lopes: « On June 22, this year, the Holy House proved a memorandum of understanding with the Montepio General, Mutualist Association, which formalized this initiative of the study of the hypothesis of the participation of the Holy House in market conditions and in format to be defined and agreed". He then said that, for this purpose, an audit was requested for a decision to be taken and that until the end of his term of office as the SCML Provider, the audit was not completed and the decision was not taken. Mr President, what I can add is that until today the audit continues to be completed and no decision is taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u95	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u96	Mr. President, Prime Minister, don't hurt me...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u97	Don't! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u98	...but you're a bit of a fight today. I didn't ask you any of that...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u99	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u100	What I asked you was what Minister Vieira da Silva put the question to the Holy House of Mercy. Today it is best to see his statements regarding BES, when he said : « I had been different». Perhaps, I would also have asked the Santa Casa to put there, at the BES... [[PSD laughter.]] What I would like to ask you is: what title and, if so, why has Mr. Provider appointed you already announced a capital injection by the Holy House of Mercy in Montepio in the order of EUR 200 million? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u101	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u102	Mr President, honourable Member, it will be recalled that the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, then the Ombudsman, even publicly expressed interest in the participation of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia as a shareholder in a financial institution, and in fact said that it considered its participation in the process of acquisition of the New Bank. It was understood, within the framework of Montepio, and taking into account the nature and its link to the Mutualist Association, that it was necessary to adopt a set of measures, two of which were pursued directly by the Banco de Portugal, which had to do with the separation between the Economic Box and the Mutualist Association and the transformation of the Economic Box into an anonymous society, which is today the bank. Many entities today have the idea that it was interesting to have in Portugal an important bank in the third sector, a bank in the social sector, in particular collecting the participation of mercy, mutualist entities and other entities in the third sector. It was in this sense that this possibility was discussed with the Holy House of Mercy. Mr Provedor asked the Government, as he had in the past also asked the Banco de Portugal, whether there was any political drawback in this regard, and the Government replied that there was no political obstacle in that regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u103	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u104	As Dr. Santana Lopes clarified, this transmission on our political position was made in strict respect for the autonomy of the Santa Casa decision. The Holy House of Mercy made a memorandum of understanding with Montepio, ordered an evaluation of Montepio, and this evaluation is under way. That's what we have to say. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u105	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares is still speaking. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u106	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you only disagree. [[EB and CFP Members' laughs.]] We have reached the end of this debate and Mr. Prime Minister has not answered me whether or not it comes back to Mrs. Catarina Martins' statements when she said that private investors pick up companies, rob reserves,... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] I asked you whether or not a member of your government has violated the Code of Conduct, you said no; I asked you whether or not this conduct has existed and you said that you have not and have now disagreed. You didn't understand what I asked you or you didn't want to answer. [[PS protests.]] I asked him what title the Government has raised this issue to the Holy House of Mercy and now Mr. Prime Minister has come to change the film of history and say: « The Holy House has asked us». Make it clear: Mr. Prime Minister now said that the Holy House asked the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u107	I didn't say that! I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u108	...if you find it inconvenient for the Holy House to study this matter. It is good that in the public debate this matter can be clarified in a short time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u110	...to find out who's lying, if it's the Holy House of Mercy, if it's Mr. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u111	It must be the Holy House! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u112	in politics, ethics and truth should be part of our speech, under the penalty of continuing to declassify all this, and I believe that this is not what Mr. Prime Minister wants. I wanted to tell you, after all this talk, and we're ending the year...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u113	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u114	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: this week, Mr Prime Minister had the opportunity to say that this was a tasty year. I believe that, after all this debate, after everything we've been through this year, what was very clear is that, for the Portuguese, this was a very painful year...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u115	Only went to PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u116	...and the responsibility, that, is yours, who is Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u117	We'll move on to the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr. Carlos César has the floor to put questions to Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : Return to the country. We're coming to the end of another year. A positive year, it's true,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u119	It's coming now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u120	...but a year in which for our memory they relate to the unfortunate events of forest fires, which oversold us, stole lives and destroyed economies. Still, there have been warnings that we have an obligation to take care not to wait any longer for the implementation of reforms, in which we have worked to reduce future risks, reforms such as those of forests, which the current government has since scheduled reforms such as that of decentralization, which the Government has sought to enable local power and mobilize it for the indispensable tasks of proximity. In 2018, the PS will be committed to the realization of these reformist dimensions. It is now up to us to make up for the damaged ones and to regenerate the affected territories. While the Government is fulfilling its obligation, and does not grant it blessinges or support customers, as the leader of the major opposition party mentioned yesterday, we welcome the diligent way in which it has undertaken reconstruction, as well as the exceptional call of resources to which it has done so. Direct beneficiaries, such as Portuguese in general, need proof that is being given to strengthen the confidence that everyone has the right to have and demand from the State for its protection and compensation. Everyone, without exception, has a duty to strive towards achieving these objectives. The extreme difficulties and suffering of people are not stage for futile divergences and biases. Even if others fail in this search for the common sense that we claim, the PS will always say « present », always « Portuguese, first ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We hope, without any hypocrisy, that the opposition will change lives and be better in 2018 than it was in 2017. to the CDS, which announced, I quote, « the failure of economic policy, we have, to return, the pair of glasses that its leader has offered us just one year ago in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u121	Is the family all good? Is the family home okay?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u122	to the PSD, which also here said that we would not be at Christmas 2017 with the best reasons to celebrate the political year that would then end, we remember, for the thousandth time, that a thousand times have been deceived and that, thus continuing, a thousand times will be deceived. We just want them to recognize that the weakened and discouraged country that left us two years ago is now invigorated and hopeful.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u124	May the new year bring you good sense and good values, because, in fact, only an unrelated opposition is so much guilt a minister of a assault that some creatures make to a military warehouse, as another minister blames for the case of a creature who uses the generositys of others to pamper himself in top-of-the-range cars. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u125	It's gonna be a break-in Christmas party!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An opposition like this may be good for some newspapers but will hardly be good for many Portuguese. It is better to assume their responsibilities in cases such as those of TTCs, where they have privatized and granted without reason and without correctness, without the guarantee of services and without the careful defence of workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we are, as I said, coming to the end of 2017, a year that we could remember: Nuno, who was in a very vulnerable situation, joined the 500 people who were at risk of poverty or social exclusion every day. It was the increase in social benefits carried out by the PS government that allowed Nuno to leave this situation. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] Mariana, unemployed four years ago, finally got a job, like 380 other men and women every day she spent. It is a job with very low wages,... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] ... receives the national minimum wage, but still, it is higher this year and will be even greater for next year. And he also counted on the increase in family allowance, all that with the government led by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP laughter.]] Augusta, unemployed five years ago, came out of this situation together with more than 140 000 long-term unemployed, who over these two years have ceased being. in fact, long-term unemployment is at the lowest level in the last eight years and the unemployment rate has again been lower than the European average at the end of 11 years. This was achieved with the government led by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The year 2017 was also the year in which John, although still young, remains unemployed, but John knows that he can count on the full unemployment allowance, which will not withdraw 10 % of his allowance, as had happened so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u127	Today is the real totoloto!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u128	Unfortunately, it has not yet been this year that John joined the more than 40 000 young people who have found employment in Portugal in the last two years, but it will certainly be in 2018 when the unemployment rate falls to the lowest level in the last decade. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The year 2017 was the year when Hugo, emigrated since 2012, returned to his homeland and joined the many Portuguese who, after a long period of forced emigration, found opportunities in his country of origin to redeploy his life. But the year 2017 was also the year in which André's grandfather, like many thousands of other friends of his age,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... you saw your pension increased, a small increase, it is true, but you are happy because you know that next year these pensions will be even more strengthened, thanks to the government led by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u129	It's the genealogical tree!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Nuno, Mariana, Augusta, João, Hugo and André's grandfather saw their income increased,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u131	Heloisa is missing! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u132	... as the people of their families have seen, who have stopped paying the overtax, who will pay less IRS, who will have less costs with their children in schools, either in school manuals or on their premises, and also know that they have employers and business friends who are more confident, paying lower interest, making short-term contracts and paying a higher average base salary in the country. They remain the PSD, the CDS and others knowing that this is due to a government led by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u133	It's a happy Leaders Conference!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u134	Finally, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, what matters now is whether we can tell Nuno today, André's grandfather, Augusta, John and Mariana that the good they have known is a good that will be greater and lasting.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u135	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u136	Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year for all! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u137	Mr. Carlos César wanted to please the Conference of Leaders!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Carlos César. To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. [[Pause.]] Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u139	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I hadn't heard. Mr President, Mr César, you have made an impressive description of what is the concrete reality, what is changing in the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese, and that is what really bothers the right, which cannot live with the actual reality of the life of the Portuguese day-to-day, and therefore you want to feed on the fiction in which you think you can establish political life.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u140	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u141	Mr Hugo Soares is a good example of those politicians who think that political life develops between us and social communication and that the country is something that is out there and truly does not matter to the reality of life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u142	Have shame! You have to be ashamed to say that the year we had!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u143	The problem is that the nervousness, insult and ill-education that affected the corners of the right is a good demonstration of how, in fact, this political and media universe has very little to do with the actual reality of each Portuguese and each Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The disembarkation goes in such a way that, precisely to avoid any contradiction between what the Government can say and what the former Provider of the Holy House of Mercy can say, I am limited to quoting and reading Dr. Pedro Santana Lopes' statement on the theme of Santa Casa da Misericórdia / Montepio, so that there can be no contradiction, because nothing he says adds or denies what the Government says and the government has nothing to add or deny to what he says. End point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u144	Do you want to win in the extension? Oh, my God! You've lost the game!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u145	What is the reality? The reality is that the country lived for years in a dramatic crisis, of deep distrust of Portuguese and Portuguese, of future disbelief, actively fuelled by the policy of the previous government. The former government really believed that the country only recovered by impoverishing and destroying rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u146	Talk again about fiction!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u147	to the young people it was said that it was time to emigrate, to the Portuguese who remained it was said that they had to endure and impoverish, to the entrepreneurs it was said that there was no place to invest because nothing future was possible to build in our country. That is why the right-wing banks have refused to do so today, and refuse, to comply with the idea of political change can produce good results. They are really against the increase in national minimum wage, because they even think that the country's competitiveness must be at the expense of low wages. Now, what we know is that the country's competitiveness is made thanks to innovation and, for that, we need to have better jobs, and that the great strategic challenge that the country has to face is the ability to have better jobs. The Immigration Observatory noted that 2016 was the year in which fewer Portuguese people were forced to leave to find decent jobs. What we have to do is not just raise the minimum wage, it is above all raise the average wage and continue to improve people's income so that companies, once and for all, realize that, if they want to have a future, they have to have more qualified frameworks and human resources, with more training, with guaranteed lifelong training, and that they can effectively contribute to the improvement of the value produced in their products and services. That is the great challenge we have in front of us, and that is what we have to go on. To this end, investment in education, lifelong learning, the scientific system, innovation capacity, technological modernization is absolutely crucial. That is why we have given priority to speeding up the implementation of the Community funds. It was a shame! on the day that this government took possession, it had reached EUR 4 million to companies in order to be able to invest in modernising their technological capacity. In 2017, we will close the year with EUR 1250 million invested by companies in their modernisation and our ambition is to continue for the year so that at least EUR 2000 million can be invested by companies in their technological modernization, because only then will we be able to create more and better jobs. That is the only way we can tell young people today who are deciding whether to go to college or stop studying which is worth studying, because studying may have more and better jobs. Only in this way can we tell those who have left that they can hope to actually return to Portugal and here build the future of their lives. It is essential that they want to return to Portugal and here to build the future of their lives, because it is the only way that we must in fact make our most modern country. The country has to modernise itself, because we have great challenges ahead: climate change is a challenge we have to answer, digital society is a challenge we have to answer, the modernization of public administration is a challenge we have to meet, and for all these challenges we need more and more well-qualified people. This is the great effort and the great battle in which the country has to focus over the coming years. This is the trajectory of the change we have introduced. When they devalued income policy, they did so because they did not realize that income policy is not only a matter of respect for pensioners, it is not only a matter of respect for those who work, it is also an investment in a society that invests in its population and which, in this way, can have the population working, building, mobilized, building confidence and hope in the future of our country. That's the trajectory we have to follow. What the reality also shows is that all the forecasts they made saying that with this policy we could have more income but less growth failed, because this will be the year in which the greatest economic growth will occur since the beginning of the century. They also said that with this policy we would have less employment, and we are having more employment and less unemployment. In addition, not only did they say: "Well, but they will again disbalance public finances" and "the devil comes there" as they spent the whole year asking for a plan B and announcing that the ransom was there. After all, we did not have plan B, we did not have rescue and, on the contrary, we left the waste of a rating agency, we left the waste of a second rating agency and we will continue to get out of the waste because our country is not garbage, it is the country we want to build for our children and grandchildren. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He wants to ask the PSD and the CDS why they don't ask us the question they were asking at the beginning of this year, when they told us that the interest rate was rising and the debt rising. They don't ask that question because they know that the interest rate and debt are falling today. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] The reality is that when, in April, we presented the Stability and Growth Programme (ECP) for this year, we still anticipate a net debt that would be 121 % of the Product; today we are in a position to say that we will arrive at the end of this year with a net debt below 121 % and that will be 119 % of the Product. We also forecast a gross debt of 127 %, 9 % of the Product, but we will arrive at the end of this year with a gross debt of 126 %, 2 % of the Product. That is, throughout the year we have been reducing the weight of the debt, and we will continue to reduce it over the next few years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u148	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u149	I will now finish, Mr President. We will continue to do this debt reduction because we are not only ruling for the Portuguese today, we are not only ruling to improve today's incomes, we are undermining today's incomes to have greater economic growth, because with greater economic growth we have more and better employment and with more and better employment we ensure a better country for the Portuguese that will happen to us, for the next generations. Yes, it is for the next generations that we are ruling! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u150	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u151	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, during the last half of the year's debate, I asked him very clear questions about the entry of the Holy House into Montepio. I asked you directly who needs this business, whether the Santa Casa or Montepio, who will be winning with this business, how much money from social games will be affected by the business — money, that, I remember, destined for social action — and I did not get any full information from Mr. Prime Minister. in these 15 days, more information has come to the public and more questions are now relevant. First of all, I ask: after all, how much will the Holy House pay to enter Montepio? Sixty million euros? Two hundred million euros? How many million euros? Secondly, I ask: what part of Montepio's capital is this? And it is also worth asking: how much is Montepio worth today and where is the study that demonstrates it? Where is the study that makes the evaluation of the part of the mutualist association and the part of the Montepio General Economic Box? Who did this study? Who has had the responsibility for this study that we have not yet known? Who had the original idea of this business? Was it Montepio? Was it the Holy House? Was it the government? Was it Banco de Portugal? Who gave this boost? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u152	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u153	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I will answer your question, but before that, I do not resist the quote. On 17 January this year, the honourable Member addressed me with a question. Now, I ask you the same question: why don't you tell us about debt? It's just that the honourable Member has been in love with debt. It was not only on January 17 that he asked me about the debt, but also on January 27th, on February 8th, on February 22nd, on March 8th, on March 22nd and April 26th. I mean, you've always been asking me about your debt. Mrs. Deputy, why don't you tell me more about debt? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u154	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u155	You're not worried about debt anymore? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Deputy has that consistency of jumping: her question is on the topic of the day and now the theme of the day is Montepio. I will therefore reply to the question you have raised about Montepio. First of all, Montepio is no bank, it is a bank with a mutualist association and the mutualist association is neither an entity, it is an entity to whom thousands of Portuguese have entrusted their savings, so preserving the mutualist association is preserving the savings of thousands of Portuguese. Secondly, as Dr. Pedro Santana Lopes had already explained, the issue arose after the Holy House of Mercy had expressed interest in participating in the financial system. It was a topic discussed between the Santa Casa, the Government and the Banco de Portugal, who understood that there was no political obstacle to participation, which was surely in the interest of the mutualist association and which would probably also be in the interest of the Santa Casa. It was therefore said that this intervention could not be done unless it was in the interest of the Holy House. And the Provider of the Holy House, as the first guardian of the interests of the Holy House, made the decision to order a study, which, as he disclosed yesterday, is not yet completed and without which it is not possible to make any decision. This decision will be taken in strict respect for the autonomy of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon and the Government of course accompanies with interest the subject, but without replacing it and without giving instructions, which, in fact, could not legally do. We will therefore wait for the studies to be completed, for the Holy House's table to take the decisions it has to make, and then, at that time, we will be able to pronounce ourselves on this matter. Madam Member, you do not want to do what does not exist, which is to put the Prime Minister to do the Provider of the Holy House, because the Prime Minister is not the Provider of the Holy House, or the Provider of the Holy House to do the Prime Minister, because he is not. This work has been done over these months with great loyalty and correction between the Government and the then Provider and will certainly continue to be done between the current Government and the current Provider. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u156	You have the floor again, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u157	Mr President, Prime Minister, I remember very well the questions I ask you. Mr. Prime Minister is that you do not remember anything good about the commitments you make and many of them in front of all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u159	Mr Prime Minister, I have here a little something for you to remember a compromise, but first I will ask you a few questions. Mr. Prime Minister began by saying that it is important to preserve the mutualist association, but then we heard the current Santa Casa Provider speak in some calm and solidity, everything seems to be more or less quiet to do this business and speaks in 200 million euros. The only question that seems absolutely necessary to me to ask here and now is the following: is it comfortable with the fact that the Holy House of Mercy puts 200 million euros in Montepio? I also ask: what does Santa Casa stop doing with these 200 million euros? Don't you have other priorities? There are no priorities in social action? Is everything done in this matter? Do you think it is reasonable to withdraw money that should be allocated to those who need it most — money that comes from the social game, and comes from the social game because it has this purpose — and thus is allocated to an association or bank whose borders are not finally known? Does the government have anything to do with this? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u160	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u161	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, there is one thing the government will not do: it will not be instrumentalized in the internal dispute within the PSD. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u162	Shame on you, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u163	We have always worked with great respect for Dr. Pedro Santana Lopes, so I will continue to do and I have nothing more to add to what Dr. Pedro Santana Lopes himself has already said about this matter, in a statement he published yesterday. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u164	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u165	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, we will be here. You know that this is the case in Parliament: we are asking the questions and you are answering. So here we are now, 15 days from now, or one month from now, asking the same questions to be answered properly, because I think that the government is more concerned with the interests of the great socialist family than with the interests of the Portuguese people who need it most. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, it has quite a history among its socialist predecessors. Mr Prime Minister, I am now speaking to you about another matter: the failure in the social agreement. We are concerned that the Government simply ceases to negotiate with all the social partners such important issues as the stability of labour legislation, such important issues as the CFP, such important issues as compliance with even what was agreed last year. This is serious and shows the total disinterest on the part of the Government in relation to social dialogue and, moreover, shows that on the side of the partners simply no longer believes in the word of the Government, because there was previously an agreement made that was not, at all, fulfilled. Mr Prime Minister, who is at the forefront of this issue is Minister Vieira da Silva, who is visibly weakened, in addition to failing the social agreement and its role in Autoeuropa. Mr Prime Minister, when we look at the work of the Government this year, we have already concluded that in areas of sovereignty it has failed sharply. This was not a tasty year, it was a very painful year for many families who lost their loved ones and who still did not even receive the compensation of 70 000 €, which should have already been paid to all families. It was a painful year! As I said, we realize that the State has failed in areas of sovereignty, but the novelty of the end of the year is that the State is also failing in other areas. The Government has failed either in terms of social consultation, in which it has failed an agreement and even heard all the partners — i.e., there has been a failure in relation to what it has undertaken — or for example in the case of Autoeuropa, where it has been unable to sit at the table effectively, all those who can help to resolve the matter, from the outset its government partners. With regard to this matter, what do you have to tell us, Prime Minister? Have your negotiating and mediation skills vanished in this matter? Aren't you interested? What can the country count on? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u166	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u167	Mr President, Mrs Assunción Cristas, I will not enter into a demagogy contest in which you would be frankly defeated by Mr Exa, I will simply say that the Government respects social dialogue and makes every effort to have agreement in social dialogue. however, making agreements in social dialogue does not mean that the government accepts everything that social dialogue, or some partners of social dialogue, proposes. No one contested the €580 national minimum wage. To expressly support this measure, we were asked three conditions which were not acceptable to the Government. End point! We are going to have an increase in the national minimum wage, because that is what is really essential for the Portuguese day-to-day. When we are in Autoeuropa, we want, like all, social peace there. the government is responsible for bringing the parties closer together and seeking an understanding, but the government cannot replace neither administration nor workers and today we are no longer a corporate state and therefore it is not for the State to tell how the social partners understand or do not understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u168	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u169	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I take good note of the fact that I am not interested in using your negotiating skills, or in making a commitment to social agreement, or even to ensuring that the Government complies with what was previously agreed with the social partners. What comes out of this year's end in relation to your government is the total disinterest and the total inability to be credible with the social partners for failing to comply with what had previously been committed. We note this deep disinterest in a matter that should be the top of your concerns. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to mention one last item. There has already been a lot of talk here... yesterday, in this Parliament, your Minister Vieira da Silva, who has not been able to respond fully to a set of matters. Of course, how does a complaint disappear or why you are signing a document on such a journey where a foundation that is not yet a foundation appears — just to cite two cases. But these issues the CDS sent in writing, duly explained, to its Government. What I wanted to point out is that in our analysis this year has been substantially black for your government. The very rare case, the failure in the social agreement, the problem, to be resolved, in Autoeuropa — which is serious and affects the rest of the foreign direct investment attraction capacity for our country — the Montepio problem, all these matters are linked to a minister who is visibly fragile. Mr Prime Minister, I wonder if you understand that Minister Vieira da Silva has robust conditions,... [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u170	A statement of robustness? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u171	... if you have political weight conditions to deal with subjects as relevant as these. As I have no more time, to finish, Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u172	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u173	... I will say the following: I do not forget my commitments, but I do not forget yours either. Mr Prime Minister forgets the commitments with the social partners, Mr Prime Minister forgets the commitments with the fire victims, because many have not yet received anything,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u174	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u175	... Mr. Prime Minister says that higher education and innovation are very important—I remember that in 2016 he cut, in the General State Account, 42 million in this matter—and he also forgot, Prime Minister, to offer me a retrospective.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u176	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u177	He told me a year ago that I would bring him to King's Day. I didn't bring it, but I bring it to Mr. Prime Minister looking back, see well the legacy of his socialist family...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u178	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u179	... and see that in many of these cases, unfortunately, we are radically approaching this old pattern. [[PS protests.]] So this gift has been waiting a year for you to give it to me. [[Right now, the speaker showed a rearviewer.]] As you have not given it to me, I now bring it in so that you can look back and see your legacy. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u180	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have found that the more irrelevant it is politically, the more it is the tone of the insult it uses in its political debate. The truth is that you went to the election and has a party that, apart from what you obtained from the PPD / PSD, is worth 2, 59 % in Portuguese society. That is the dimension of its relevance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If this year is black for someone, it is - certainly for those who have suffered, for those who are mocked, but I must tell you that it should be much blacker for those who have the wastefulness of taking advantage of the pain of others to engage in political combat. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the honourable Member has the waste of taking advantage of the pain of others, because there is nothing left but insult.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u182	Insult? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u183	The honourable Member has been here saying that the debt was going to increase and we are going to have a debt of 126, 2 % of the Product, which is less than 127, 9 % that we still expected in April. We will arrive at the end of this year with the greatest growth since the beginning of the century. We have the unemployment rate not in 12, 6 % that were when you were the Minister, but in 8, 5 %. We now have the lowest deficit in our democracy and not the deficits we had when you were the Minister. You failed as Minister, you fail in opposition, because it is a real failure, and that is what really hurts you. So nothing remains for him but insult and exploit the pain of others. [[CDS-PP protests.]] That's very, very ugly, Mrs. Member! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] [[Right now, the Rearview was handed over to Mr. Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u184	To put questions by the Portuguese Communist Party, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u185	Mr President, Prime Minister, no balance sheet can be made this year that is about to end can omit the drama of fires, their victims, those who have lost their assets, their agricultural holdings, their businesses. But it was also a year marked by significant social advances, in terms of the replacement of income and rights, which marked significantly, and will mark, for the year 2018, new advances, corresponding to more social justice. This is the last fortnightly debate of 2017, we cannot fail to raise problems of the present moment, but also needs that are planned for 2018, starting with the national minimum wage. The PCP proposed an increase to 600 € in January 2018, the PS refused and the Government came yesterday to confirm the option for the increase to 580 €. It is a limited and clearly insufficient increase in relation to the needs of workers, setting a lower value than would be necessary to respond to the deep injustices in the distribution of wealth, to ensure greater economic development, more job creation and more revenue for social security. The government made another choice, hiding itself in the agreement made with BE to limit this increase. Well, you will have to continue the struggle for an increase in the national minimum wage that is more in line with the needs and expectations of workers. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, there are other issues that mark the current situation and which can of course not be signalled: the complaint about the situation in the very rare association which, to confirm itself, is unacceptable and requires full clarification and clearance of responsibilities, to whom it gives, in addition to making it even more clear the need of the State not to transfer to third parties responsibilities that are itss and that require that citizens' rights correspond to public services of quality. We also want to highlight another issue that is on the agenda today. It will be recalled that one year ago, in the last 15-year debate of 2016, we brought concern about the situation of the CTTs ( Correios de Portugal ). We were, moreover, the only party to do so. It wasn't news, it didn't have media strength. Today, we're not alone, and still good. at the time, we put the many concerns about the situation in the TTCs and the damage to the populations and to the workers. All of this at the same time as the new private owners of the CTTs add fabulous profits to the cost of the people and the country. The situation has continued to deteriorate, reaching the point we know today. But, arrogantly and as « hot-backed », the administration looks forward to dismissals to hundreds, which accentuates the concerns that have already existed and makes it even more clear that it is fair to fight the workers of the TTCs, in particular the decision of the strike, which begins tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u187	It is urgent to halt the destruction of TTCs and to guarantee public postal service, defending the rights of workers and populations. A week ago, the CFP brought a proposal for the State to resume public control of TTCs. The PS rejected this proposal and will have to take responsibility for the situation it is creating. The Government must intervene in order to halt the degradation of postal service and the process in progress in the TTCs and must clearly state how it will do so. Along with the problems that worsen in TTCs, we want to once again bring to the debate the health problem and, in particular, the situation in the SNS (National Health Service ). The SNS is being the target of a process of emptying and systematic transfer of care to the private sector. A few days ago, we were confronted with the news of a protocol signed between the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley and four mercys of the Setúbal peninsula to assume responsibility for general and family medical consultations to users who do not have a family doctor. I ask, Prime Minister : with which doctors will these mercys provide general and family medical care? And what specialization do they have in this valence? I also ask you, Prime Minister : for when is the response to the shortage of professionals in the SNS to prevent users from being referred to private services? A few days ago we got to know, through the publication of a study commissioned by the Northern Regional Section of the Medical Order, that half of the doctors training in the specialty admit the possibility of emigration at the end of the boarding school. For when is a human resources policy that values health professionals and prevents them from emigration? It is that, Prime Minister, we are talking about the main workers of the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u188	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u189	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, it is clear that no one can ignore the dramatic, tragic aspects of this year, but, as you say, one must also see what happened beyond that tragedy. Indeed, what bothers the right is that, when we look at the rearview that Dr. Cristas has now given me, look back and where I will see, tomorrow, 580 € of national minimum salary via 505 €, when Dr. Cristas...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u190	Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u191	...and Dr. Steps Rabbit were in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] This is the way. I look at the rearviewer and what I see is an unemployment rate that was 12, 6 % and is now 8, 5 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I look back and what I see in the rearview is the economy cooling in the second half of 2015, while since 2016 I see the economy accelerating, and this year we will have the greatest economic growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This is what I see from this Rearview of Dr. Cristas. In fact, in these two years, we have come to take a walk, a walk in the right direction and in the direction of progress. What we know is that the road is not finished, that there is more road to continue walking and that, while there is road, we must continue to walk.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u192	Holes are not missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u193	There are still failures in the National Health Service, but at the moment we have the highest coverage rate of family doctors we have ever had. We have 5541 family doctors, which corresponds to a coverage rate of almost 94%, and we want to continue investing in, until the end of the legislature, as our goal is, we have the full coverage of family doctors. On the other hand, we must continue to increase the number of continuous care beds, as we must continue to increase the family health units, as we must meet and start with the hospitals of Évora, Lisboa Oriental, Seixal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u194	Wood!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u195	... how we must continue to do everything we undertake to do. The intervention, which refers to Setúbal, has an additional, subsidiary nature, to respond to the needs raised in winter, so that the population of Setúbal will not be unprotected until we have the definitive coverage. But our commitment is to ensure universal coverage in the National Health Service and that these mechanisms must not be more than complementary to times of crisis such as those we are still living at this time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u196	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u197	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question which I have already put to you - one day I hope that you will not tell me what you have said to Mrs Cristos, i.e., 'again, come and talk about this' -...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u198	You're not gonna do that. At least stop!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u199	...but that, I think, it's important to do it again. The question of the price of stock gas in our country. How can it be explained to the Portuguese people that the same shop, whether it is Repsol or Galp, can cost here next door, in Spain, less € 10 to € 12 than it costs in Portugal? The problem, contrary to what PSD and CDS say, is not in the taxes paid but in the absolutely unacceptable profits that are achieved by large multinationals. This same conclusion was drawn in the discussion of the State Budget for 2017, where it was defined a course aimed at reducing the price to consumers. More than a year has passed and the government talks about the social tariff, the involvement of the authorities, the mandatory existence of bottle gas in fuel supply stations, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u200	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u201	They are all good intentions but, in the view of the CFP, they run away to the central issue: how are the prices of the stock gas regulated to reduce the profit margin of the large distributors, respecting the small resellers? This is a big issue today. I therefore conclude, Mr President, by thanking you for your tolerance and saying that in these cold days of December, there will not be few families who will account for their lives before connecting the heating. That's what we're talking about when we look at the lives of millions of Portuguese. Take this into account, Prime Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u202	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u203	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, no, I do not give you the answer I gave to Mrs Asunción Cristos,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u204	...because your questions are relevant questions... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ...and that they have to do with life, people's daily lives. The issue of the cost of electricity and energy, in general, is a key issue and, therefore, over these two years, we have been conducting a set of policies that have resulted in a general energy cost for consumers. In two years natural gas has fallen by 20 %; electricity will have a nominal decrease corresponding to a real decline this year. Access rates — which is especially important for industry — will fall 4, 4 %. The tariff debt of more than EUR 5000 million is reduced to EUR 3, EUR 6 billion. And, above all, the social rate has increased from 80 000 families to 800 000 families. This is also the trajectory we have to make with regard to the supply gas. That is why, in the State Budget for 2017, we transferred the regulation to ERSE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ), so that this entity can also intervene in fixing the price of the stock gas. It was in this sense that in this State Budget for 2018, the rate of solidarity in the liquefied oil gas was created. And we are now planning two new very important measures to reduce the price of gas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u205	Has that answer been written? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u206	The measures are, on the one hand, to oblige all operators, distributors and retailers to carry out the reception and exchange of empty gas bottles, irrespective of the brand, in order to increase supply and competition and, on the other hand, to deduct to the price the gas that remains at the bottom of the bottle, by means of the mean gas that is at the bottom of the shop, so as to ensure an effective reduction in the price of the stock gas. And here too there's more road to go, because there's a way to do it, and that's what we're going to do, definitely together. I take advantage of you to wish you Christmas and New Year's Eve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u207	We are now passing on to the Green Party. You have the floor to ask your questions, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u208	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you will sometimes have to offer that mirror to Mrs Christian Assumption, because she will need to look back several times and realize the enormities, calamities and damage that the government of which she has been part has committed in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u209	Ah! Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u210	And let's just go to the CTT. As a public company, it was a company that worked well, it was profitable, Mr. Prime Minister, and now Mrs. Mrs. Cristian Assumption! It started to work badly when the PSD/CDS government began preparing its privatisation, closing CTT posts and reducing the number of workers. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And in fact, when the company was privatized by the previous government, PSD / CDS, services clearly worsened. This was the state in which the PSD/CDS government handed over the TTCs to the country. Now, in the current situation, Mr. Prime Minister says this: ANACOM (National Communications Authority ), the regulator, has recognized breaches and has already applied sanctions to the company. Mr. Prime Minister, the sanction applied by the regulator this year was a fine that lowered the price of mail by 0, 03 %. Since privatisation, the normal mail price has increased 47 %. Do you know what this means, Prime Minister? It's obviously worth preliminating, because it compensates. So the solution doesn't go through there. Mr Prime Minister, the CTTs are now presenting a plan for restructuring, dismissal of workers, closure of balconies — the same logic as ever — and Mr Prime Minister, before that, arrives here and says: « Nothing has yet arrived to the government, so for now, the question for the government, simply does not arise». It is wrong to say this, Mr Prime Minister — I say, on behalf of the Greens — and it is wrong, because less workers and balconies means less quality of service. Therefore, Prime Minister, what I ask you to do today is that at least the minimums there is a huge concern about what has become public, redundancies and closure of the CTT counters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u211	You have the floor to answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u212	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I believe that in the first question put to me by Mrs Catarina Martins, I have expressed my deep concern about the subject, but I cannot take a decision on a restructuring plan that has not been presented to the Government and that we hear in the media, where I have also heard the CTTs deny that it exists in the terms in which it has been reported. So when it is presented, we will appreciate the CL - but what, for us now, is absolutely essential is to ensure not that the fine is greater or smaller but that there is no fine, because there is not even non-compliance, and that the services and the quality of the services of the CTT continue to improve. I will never forget that, a few years ago, our post office had the second best performance in the assessment of the Universal Postal Union. It is this level of quality that we have to demand from the TTCs. Whether they are private or not, what they have to have is this level of quality and service to populations. That is what is required and that is what we have to demand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u213	To request further clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u214	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is this level of quality that The Greens believe is guaranteed only if privatisation is reversed and there is public control of postal service in Portugal, because that is what history tells us. And now we are not actually achieving that level and quality of services. On the case of the Rare Association, Mr. Prime Minister, this is a case that obviously shocked the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u215	It's all explained, of course! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u216	To ensure that the users of the institution are not harmed and not answered is absolutely fundamental. Mr Prime Minister said that the IPSS cannot be questioned from a specific case. It is true, Mr. Prime Minister, but it is also normal for you to be suspicious of how some institutions operate and even how the State deresponsibility of some of its functions to pass them on to the IPSS. It's normal, it's legitimate that you end up with that doubt. What I am asking is the following: is it not then normal that, in this particular case, and in the face of these legitimate doubts, there is a strengthening of the control mechanisms in relation to those institutions where the State injects public money?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u217	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u218	It's public money, it's money from all of us, and so these control mechanisms make all the sense. I shall even finish, Mr President, only with this sentence: Mr Prime Minister, they continue to arrive at the Assembly of the Republic with concrete complaints about the delay in the support related to the fires of Pedrogão Grande and of 15 and 16 October. I would like Mr. Prime Minister to be able to make a balance sheet here on these support that is being provided, because in fact the Assembly of the Republic continues to be aware of these delays and dissatisfaction. In fact, this enormous disaster in the country requires a quick response so that the lives of those people can, as quickly as possible, return to what might possibly be called "normality". [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u219	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u220	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I thank you for your questions. First of all, as far as Rare is concerned, all the monitoring action must be done and therefore we must intensify. As I have already said, over the past two years there have been more than 1615 IPSS inspection actions. however, it is appropriate not to confuse what is the performance of a leader with the institution itself or to confuse this institution with the whole IPSS. It is that there are companies where there are also legal problems, there are municipalities where there are also legal problems, there are state services where there are also legal problems and we cannot diabolize everything. If there was any illegality committed, either the inspection function, or the function of justice must act and everything must be clarified and clarified. But, as I said, we must not fail to preserve an institution that has always deserved consideration for everyone, which has a high-quality job for the children in charge and whose service is absolutely essential to safeguard, and we all have a duty to safeguard. That's what needs to be done. I shall send in writing a document with all the support that has been granted in the various fields — reconstruction of enterprises, replacement of productive capacity for farmers, animal feed, reconstruction of housing, emergency social support — because it is necessary to make everything clear, otherwise, we are often in the world of confusion. A short time ago, a Member of Parliament asked me why the 70 000 € minimum compensation fixed by the Council had not yet been paid. For an essential reason: so far there has not yet been a single claim for compensation which has entered the Ombudsman's Office. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is also established with the Ombudsman that, firstly, the fact that there is an early payment does not compromise the legitimacy of the parties concerned, that they may, after all, appeal to the court if they do not agree with the final compensation set by the Ombudsman, and secondly it is also safeguarded that this advance amount will, of course, be deducted from the final amount of the compensation. This is what is clarified with the Association of Victims, whom we maintain regular contact with, and that is what is established with the Ombudsman. However, there is a fundamental condition: that there is an application for compensation, so that the Ombudsman can process the applications and fix the compensation and so that the State can pay. The Minister of Finance is in a position to pay immediately, the Ombudsman has already made sure that she has the conditions to appreciate the requests very quickly, so they are presented to her, and I can also say here, because I do not break any confidentiality, that the Association of Victims met last Saturday and she believes that the conditions are now met to be able to make the request, now that they have full access to Chapter 6 of the Report by Prof. Xavier Viegas, which was drawn up at the request of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u221	You now have the floor to ask your questions, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u222	Mr President, Prime Minister, in June, in the negotiations of the forest reform package, the NAP proposed to the Government the creation of an animal rescue and rescue unit in the context of fires, consisting of several teams that would include veterinary doctors and other professionals, integrated into the National Civil Protection Authority. The government didn't accept it. More recently, in the context of the debate on the State Budget for 2018, the NAP improved the proposal. The parties of the Assembly of the Republic have plummeted it. Official data last week indicate that more than 500 000 livestock died in the great fires of October. More than half a million animals died. Mr Prime Minister, is the magnitude of these numbers enough for the Government to change its position on the total inertia of the State in this matter and on the need for civil protection to be able to give a first rescue response and rescue animals in disaster situations?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u223	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u224	Mr President, Mr André Silva, of course, as you know, and following the Independent Technical Commission designated by the Assembly of the Republic, a system of integrated management of rural fires which has different valences, from the protection of the forest to the protection of people and populations and, necessarily, of the effective animal is being implemented. in the whole of this reform, all the interventions necessary for the protection of the values, goods and animals that must be protected will be considered. I draw attention to the fact that 98 % of fire victims are in avian, which means that more than an animal rescue situation, the issue is the protection of the avian plants themselves and other animal production units. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u225	You have the floor to ask further questions, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u226	Mr President, Prime Minister, I leave you with a second question: the RTP budget for 2018 does not fully cover the replacement of careers of its employees, since the administration of the RTP alleged to be lack of money due to the realization and coverage of two major events next year. Is the government aware of this position of the administration of RTP, Prime Minister? Does the Government intend to intervene in order to ensure that careers are frozen already in January, without phased out, according to, indeed, determines the State budget? Mr. Prime Minister, if, on the one hand, editorial priorities, which can prestigious our country in 2018, are important, on the other hand, it is essential to safeguard the rights of RTP employees, one of the pillars of the quality and independence of the only public television service in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u227	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u228	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I would like to clarify the following: the government does not interfere, nor does it intend to interfere in the day-to-day management of any company, including RTP. It does not do so in programming, it does not do it in information, nor does it do it in the management of its personal relations. In any case, what we can say is that the information we have is that the decision to defuse careers by the administration is already taken. But let it be very clear that this government is a shareholder of the companies, but it does not manage them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-20.u229	Mrs. We have thus concluded this fortnight debate with Mr Prime Minister. I take this opportunity to wish Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, on my own behalf and of the Assembly of the Republic, Happy Holidays. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that, immediately after the end of this session, there will be, in the Hall of Nobre, the traditional Christmas snack for which, of course, everyone is invited. The tomorrow session will start at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: at the first point, the projects of lein. 695 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Determines the end of use of animals in circuses ( NAP ), 701 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the protection of animals used in circuses ( PCP ), 703 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Bans the use of wild animals in circuses and establishes measures to support the circus arts ( BE), 705 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the prohibition on the use of wild animals in circuses by amending Decree-Law No 255 / 2009 of 24 September ( PS ) and 706 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On animals in circus ( The Greens ). in the second item of the agenda, draft law No 708 / XIII will be discussed ( 3. ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Law No. 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), second amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2003, of 22 August ( Law of the Political Parties ), seventh amendment to Law No. 19 / 2003, of 20 June ( Law of the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), and first amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2005, of 10 January ( Law of Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing) ( PSD, PS, BE, PCP and PEV ). in the third point, together, petition No 136 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Objection to the allocation of a TUPEM license to the Galp / ENI consortium for the research drilling activity in area 233 designated by Santola in the Alentejo Basin ( Aljezur ) ( ASMAA-Algarve Surf and Marine Activities Association ) and draft resolutions 1188 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the remaining hydrocarbon concessions in the territory and assess the quality and methods of extraction of imported gas ( BE and PAN ), 1197 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by suspension of research and exploration of hydrocarbons off Aljezur ( PCP ), 1205 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Calls on the Government to stop the prospecting, research, development and production of hydrocarbons (The Greens ). of point four is the discussion together of petition No 281 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the adoption of measures to defend the Portuguese footwear ( Paulo Miguel Correia Ferrero Marques dos Santos ) and draft resolutions No 1166 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by valuing the Portuguese footwear, by supporting the candidacy of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity and by valuing the profession of shoemaker ( The Greens), 1192 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards maintaining and valuing the Portuguese footwear ( PAN), 1196 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of Portuguese footwear and footwear ( PCP ), 1200 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of the art of footwear and the Portuguese footwear ( BE) and 1208 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard and enhance the Portuguese footwear ( PSD ). at point five, we will also discuss together petition No. 292 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by updating the value of scientific research scholarships ( ABIC - Association of Scientific Research Fellowships ), Bill No 699 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Research Fellowship on the value of research grants ( NAP ), draft resolution No 1194 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to support research scholarships, in particular the updating of the value of scientific research scholarships ( NAPs) and the projects of lein.o 702 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary update of the research grants and mechanism for the annual updating of the scientific research grants ( Fifth amendment to Law No 40 / 2004 of 18 August ) ( PCP ) and 704 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Update of scientific research grants ( BE ). Finally, in point six, the vote will take place. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 58 minutes.]]
